Document of
The World Bank
FILE                  FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
FIECopy
Report No. P-2108-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
SECOND CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
June 15, 1977



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Baht
US$1.00      = B 20.4
B 1.00       = US$0.049
US$1 million = B 20.4 million
B 1 million  = US$49,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                       = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                  = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                    = 2.47 acres
= 6.25 rai
1 million cubic meters (M cu m)   = 810 acre-feet
1 cubic meter per second (cu m/s) = 35.3 cubic feet per second
1 ton                             = 1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,205 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)                   = 1,340 horsepower (hp)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC   - Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
c.i.f. - Cost, insurance and freight
DAE    - Department of Agricultural Extension
EGAT   - Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
f.o.b. - Free on board
MOAC   - Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
O&M    - Operation and Maintenance
RID    - Royal Irrigation Department
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-i -
THAILAND
SECOND CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:        $55.0 million equivalent
Term:          20 years including a grace period of 4-1/2 years, with
interest at 8.2% p.a.
Project Description:  The proposed project is part of the Borrower's
continuing program for improving irrigation facilities and sup-
porting services to farmers in the Northern Chao Phya and Mae
Klong Irrigation areas.
The project is divided into the following components:
Part A.    Rehabilitation of the main irrigation, drainage and
road networks and on-farm development works to improve
water control and farm access to serve a net culti-
vable area of about 63,000 ha distributed among six
subproject areas in the Northern Chao Phya Plain.
Part B.    Rehabilitation works to improve water control and
operational efficiency for an area of 138,000 ha
(additional to the Part A area), as well as topographic
mapping for about 300,000 ha of the Northern Chao Phya
Plain.
Part C.    Topographic and cadastral mapping of about 50,000 ha,
construction of three pilot projects and 360 km of
service roads and associated works in the Mae Klong
irrigation area.
Part D.    Consultant services for (a) implementing the above
works, (b) preparing feasibility studies for (i) a third
stage project in the Chao Phya Plain and (ii) a second
stage project in the Mae Klong area, and (c) studies of
agricultural supporting services.
Provision would also be made in the project for improvements in operation
and maintenance, a fisheries development program and project monitoring
and evaluation.
| This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be discload without World Bank authoriation.



Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
…----- US$ million ------
Part A
Rehabilitation                      4.7      3.8        8.5
On-farm development                14.6      17.9      32.5
Miscellaneous                       4.4       1.6       6.0
Part B
Rehabilitation                     5.2       4.5        9.7
Mapping                             1.7       0.2       1.9
Miscellaneous                       1.1       0.8       1.9
Part C
Roads                               3.8       3.2        7.0
Pilot projects                      0.7       0.8       1.5
Miscellaneous                       1.7       2.6        4.3
Part D
Consultant services                 0.3       1.8       2.1
Miscellaneous                       1.0       -          1.0
Subtotal base costs              39.2      37.2       76.4
Physical contingencies              3.9       3.7        7.6
Price contingencies                13.9      14.1       28.0
Total Cost                     57.0      55.0      112.0
Financing Plan:                   Government     Bank    Total
-------- US$ million --------
57.0        55.0     112.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal          Annual         Cumulative
Year
------ US$ million ------
1978               1.6              1.6
1979              10.1             11.7
1980              18.9             30.6
1981              13.4             44.0
1982               6.7             50.7
1983               4.3             55.0



Technical Assistance:
(a) Consultants would be engaged to assist in the implementation
of Parts A and B of the project and to undertake a feas-
ibility study for a third stage of development in the
Northern Chao Phya area. About 230 man-months of assist-
ance are expected to be required.
(b) Separate consultants would be engaged to assist in the
implementation of Part C of the project and to undertake
a feasibility study for a second stage of development
in the Mae Klong area and studies of agricultural supporting
services. About 40 man-months of assistance are expected
to be required.
(c) Cost estimates for the consultants' services are based on
recent contracts concluded with international consulting
firms in Thailand and countries in the area. These costs
average $7,100 per man-month, including all overheads.
Rate of Return: Project as a Whole: 31%. Part A (65% of total project
costs): 39%. Part B (18% of total costs) and
Part C (17% of total costs): both 15%.
Staff Project Report: No. 1412a-TH, dated June 1, 1977.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE SECOND CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $55 million to the
Kingdom of Thailand to help finance the second Chao Phya Irrigation Improve-
ment project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years'
grace, with interest at 8.2% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on the Current Economic
Situation and Prospects of Thailand" (1280-TH, dated October 29, 1976) was
distributed to the Executive Directors and to members of the Consultative
Group for Thailand in November 1976. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Events
3.        Following the April 1976 elections, the coalition Government of Prime
Minister Seni Pramoj succeeded that of Kukrit Pramoj, which had been in power
for just over a year. On October 6, following the eruption of violence at
the Thammasat University between left-wing students and right-wing groups, some
24 high ranking military officers formed the National Administrative Reform
Council (NARC), headed by Admiral Sangad Chalawyoo, and seized power. NARC
abrogated the 1974 Constitution, dissolved the National Assembly and outlawed
all political parties.
4.        On NARC's recommendation, the King appointed Thanin Kraiwichian, a
Senior Judge of the Supreme Court, as Prime Minister on October 8. The Prime
Minister announced a Cabinet of 17 members drawn from a wide range of backgrounds
on October 22. On the same day, a new Constitution, which provides for, among
other things, the establishment of a National Administrative Reform Assembly
(NARA) and a phased return to full democracy over 16 years, was promulgated.
The Assembly consisting of 340 appointed members met for the first time on
November 25, 1976, when .NARC, which had been acting as an interim legislature,
assumed an advisory role to the Cabinet. The Constitution bestows wide ranging
powers on the Prime Minister on matters relating to law and order and national
security.
Recent Economic Developments
5.        Thailand's growth record over the decade 1965-75 has been good.
Rapid growth of both the agricultural and industrial sectors, which recorded
average annual growth rates in constant prices of 5% and 10% respectively,
enabled real GDP to expand at an average rate of 7.5% annually. The country
also achieved impressive investment and savings rates throughout this period.
Gross domestic capital formation ranged from 20% to 27% of GDP, with private
fixed investment constituting at least two thirds of total fixed investment



each year. The share of gross domestic savings in GDP ranged from 19% to 22%.
As a result, in no year did the resource gap (import surplus needed to finance
the levels of consumption and investment achieved) exceed 5% of GDP, and was
considerably less in most years.
6.        However, over the Third Plan period 1972-76, the growth rate, esti-
mated at 6.2% p.a., fell short of the 7% target, as a result, inter alia, of:
(a) slower growth in agriculture (4% instead of the targeted 5%), where
progress in intensifying production techniques has been slow; (b) a cautious
fiscal policy that substantially reduced real public investment in 1973/74;
and (c) the international recession of 1974/75, which particularly affected
export industries such as the textile and clothing industry.
7.        The economy has recovered steadily from the deceleration which
began in the second half of 1974. The growth rate of real GDP rose from 4.6%
in 1974 to 5.5% in 1975, and a growth rate of close to 6.5% is estimated for
1976. In sharp contrast to the situation in 1973/74, when the external sector
and private investment provided the main stimuli to growth, the much-needed
stimuli to demand in 1975 and 1976 came from the public sector, with a strong
expansion in export receipts reinforcing the growth of domestic demand in the
latter year. Receipts from merchandise exports rose by 31% in 1976, mainly due
to volume gains. Preliminary data suggest that private investment in 1976 fell
somewhat from the peak level of 18% of GDP attained in 1974 and 1975.
8 .       Both in 1975 and 1976 the balance of payments registered much higher
current account deficits than in the previous years ($600 million in 1975 and
$500 million in 1976 compared to $90 million in 1974). The major reason for
the larger current account deficits is the deterioration in Thailand's terms of
trade: between 1973 and 1975, they declined by almost 20%. In 1974, mainly
due to the hike in oil prices, the import price index rose by over 50%; a
substantial improvement in prices of most of the country's major exports,
however, helped to limit the decline in the terms of trade to about 10%. In
1975, on the other hand, although import price increases moderated, there was
a further substantial fall in the terms of trade as export prices stabilized
or fell. For 1976, the decline in the terms of trade is estimated at under 5%.
9.        In spite of increased foreign borrowing by the public sector in
1975, total net capital inflows were lower than in the previous year because
of a substantial reduction in net private capital inflows. Direct private
foreign investment declined from $137 million in 1974 to $65 million in 1975,
and private loans and credits also fell significantly, while sizeable repay-
ments began on loans contracted in 1974. As a consequence of the higher
current account deficit and lower net capital inflows, reserves, which had
increased in 1974, declined by $195 million to $1,369 million in 1975.
Although there was some improvement in foreign direct investment, total private
inflows declined further in 1976. Public capital inflows, on the other hand,
increased substantially as the country's first Eurodollar loan of $100 million
was drawn down and project loans committed in 1974/75 began to be disbursed.
Taking into account an SDR 67 million loan under the IMF's compensatory financ-
ing scheme, the overall balance of payments in 1976 recorded a small surplus.
The country's reserves equalled about 4-1/2 months imports at the end of 1976.
10.       Thailand enjoyed a large measure of price stability in 1975 and 1976.
Slower demand growth, stable export prices and a moderate increase in import



- 3 -
prices limited the rise in the consumer price index to 5.3% in 1975, a sharp
deceleration from an annual average increase of 20% in 1973 and 1974. The rate
of inflation in 1976 amounted to only 4.2%.
Development Oblectives, Constraints and Prospects
11.       Achieving a satisfactory rate of economic and social development
over the next few years will require policy initiatives in a number of areas.
In particular, important objectives in the country's development strategy will
continue to be: (a) substantial improvement in agricultural yields; (b) revital-
ization of the industrial sector with greater emphasis on export-oriented
industries; (c) faster employment growth; and (d) improvement in the distri-
bution of regional and personal incomes.
12.       A further problem that has received increasing attention is the
country's relatively high rate of population growth.    Starting in the late
1960s the Government has given steadily increasing attention to fertility
reduction. Considerable success has been achieved in developing a national
family planning program, and the population growth rate has been reduced from
over 3% in the late 1960s to an estimated 2.6% today. The crude birth rate
is estimated to have fallen from 42 to 34%; a further drop to 29-30% is
targeted for 1981, for which a growth rate of 2.1% has been set. Encouraging
progress has been made in recruiting acceptors from the rural areas as well as
from cities and towns. Achieving the 1981 demographic targets will depend on
a strengthening and expansion of rural health and family planning services,
including their extension to the village level, and on continuing the Ministry
of Public Health's past success in upgrading the effectiveness of the contra-
ceptive "mix." A greater effort to strengthen long-term demand for family
planning will be launched during the Fourth Plan (1977-81), as more acceptors
will have to come from groups whose motivation is now weak.
13.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will require a steady increase in public expendi-
tures over the next few years. Public expenditures have increased substanti-
ally in nominal terms since 1974, but these increases have merely restored
the share of the public sector in the country's resources to that prevailing
before 1973/74, when public spending declined in real terms as a result of
an anti-inflationary policy. A reasonably ambitious development program for
the next few years will also require much greater efforts to mobilize both
domestic and external resources than in the Third Plan period. With the
economy's steady recovery, the need for prudent deficit financing has lessened;
consequently, the recent decline in the rate of public savings will need to be
reversed. At the same time, the deterioration in the country's terms of trade
has raised substantially the external capital flows needed for achieving a
satisfactory rate of growth.
14.       The recent evolution of policy concerns and strategies is reflected
in the Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81).
The Plan's principal objectives include a growth target of 7%, a more equitable
distribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth and genera-
tion of employment opportunities. The Plan discusses sectoral issues and
strategies only in broad terms and will have limited operational significance
unless it is supplemented by proposals of investment commitments for at least
the next two to three years. The new Government has approved the Plan. The



- 4 -
Plan proposes public sector development expenditures of $12.5 billion for the
Plan period as compared to an estimated level of $4.6 billion achieved over the
Third Plan period (1972-76). Although this level implies a doubling of develop-
ment expenditures in real terms, it will raise the share of public investment
in GDP from 5% over the Third Plan to only 6% over the Fourth Plan period. The
size of the public sector development program cannot, therefore, be considered
overly ambitious.
15.       The financing of this program is likely to require commitments of
about $3-3.5 billion in project financing and further public borrowing of
$500-700 million through sources such as Eurocurrency loans, suppliers'
credits and industrial countries' export financing facilities. In the meeting
of March 22 and 23, 1977, the Consultative Group considered these amounts
reasonable. These external borrowing requirements should not place a heavy
burden on the country's debt servicing capacity. The projected public sector
external borrowing would raise the public debt service ratio (debt service
payments as a percentage of exports) from 2.6% in 1975 to 4.7% in 1981. The
debt service ratio for total debt, which amounted to 15.4% in 1975, should
remain below 17% over the Fourth Plan period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received 37
loans amounting to $865.9 million, net of cancellations. Most of these have
been for transportation ($186.1 million), irrigation ($163.8 million) and power
($166 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power and irrigation
project ($65.8 million). The remaining loans have been for water supply
($55 million), telecommunications ($63 million), education ($52.3 million),
industry ($38 million), rural development ($21 million), livestock ($5 mil-
lion) and rubber replanting ($50 million). A loan for a national agricultural
extension project ($28 million) has been signed, but is not yet effective. In
addition, Thailand has received three IDA credits one, for $19.5 million, for
education and two, for a total of $12.5 million, for irrigation improvement.
In general, Bank-financed projects have been carried out in accordance with
expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments (as of April 30, 1977), as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
17.       The Bank is diversifying its lending program in Thailand.   In the
next few years a smaller proportion of lending is planned for transportation
and power projects, while projects to support a broad range of agricultural
development, rural infrastructure, family planning, education, small- and
medium-scale industries and low-cost housing cum slum improvement would
account for about two thirds of the proposed program. Increasingly, projects
are being selected to spread development benefits to the lower income groups
and the most neglected areas; one of the main functions of the Bank's Regional
Mission in Bangkok is to assist the Government in developing projects aimed
at this goal. The Bank's readiness to finance some local costs in appropriate
cases will enable the Bank to participate more fully in projects in the agricul-
tural and social sectors that have significant social benefits.



18.       For FY77 and FY78, in addition to the recently approved national
agricultural extension loan and the proposed loan, the rural population
should be assisted by loans to be proposed for an irrigation project in the
northeast and a population project to improve health and family planning
services primarily in the provinces. A DFC project, approved earlier this
fiscal year, will stimulate medium-scale industry development; an industrial
estates project would help attract and develop small- and medium-scale
industries outside the metropolitan area. Other projects are rural electri-
fication in the northeast, a multipurpose dam in the south and provincial
highways.
19.       As of December 31, 1976, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed and
outstanding amounted to $309 million, representing about 37.6% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.2% of GDP in 1976). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is expected to decline rapidly to
about 30% of total public external debt in 1982. The Bank's share in total
debt outstanding would remain at about 20% and its share of debt service should
not exceed 10%.
20.       IFC has made two equity investments in the Industrial Finance
Corporation of Thailand totaling $380,000, two loans to and an investment in
the Siam Cement group totaling $32.08 million, a loan of $300,000 to Concrete
Products Ltd., an equity investment of approximately $300,000 in the Mutual
Fund Company Ltd. and, more recently, a loan for $2.5 million and an equity
investment of $200,000 in United Sugar Terminal Co. Prospects for other IFC
operations are reasonably good; IFC has been asked to arrange the debt financ-
ing of approximately $50 million for a $90 million zinc mining and refinery
project. Prospective projects are the development of privately sponsored
industrial estates and a chemical project to produce carbon black for domestic
tire manufacturers. The Capital Markets Department has been invited to assist
the Government Housing Bank and is appraising a project to provide loans
to small business through local commercial banks.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
The Agricultural Sector
21.       The agricultural sector in Thailand accounts for 37% of GNP and
employs 78% of the labor force. Agricultural commodities have accounted for
50% to 60% of total exports in recent years. Thailand is one of the world's
largest rice exporters. The growth rate in agricultural production over the
past five years has been 3.7%, compared to a 6.2% growth rate for the economy
as a whole. However, allowing for relative price changes and population
growth, the real per capita income of the rural population rose nearly 35% over
the past four years.
22.       Since the mid-1960s, the growth in agricultural production has
come both from expansion of the cultivated area and improvement in yields.
Rice continues to be the principal crop, accounting for 63% of cultivated area



- 6 -
and about 30% of production value. In the last five years, rice production
grew at only 2.2% p.a., the lowest growth rate of any major crop (except
kenaf); almost all this growth came from expansion of the area harvested,
while average yields remained virtually stagnant. Fertilizer consumption in
Thailand remains among the lowest in Asia. The area planted to high-yielding
dry season rice has recently expanded, but the second crop still accounts
for only 6% of total production.
23.       The principal sector issues are:
(a) Productivity. As the supply of uncultivated land is now virtually
exhausted, further increases in food and other agricultural production
will have to come from increases in cropping intensity and yield,
requiring large capital investments and strengthened agricultural
supporting services.
(b) Income Distribution. Large inequities of income exist between urban
and rural areas, between regions and, to a lesser extent, within rural
communities.
(c)  Pricing Policy.  Traditionally, Government policy in Thailand has
been to keep prices to the producer low (through export taxes) and
to tolerate high input prices, leading to a continuation of an
"extensive" form of agriculture, with a low use of inputs and low
yields. Even though this policy has been significantly changed in
the past three years (for example, a fertilizer monopoly has been
abolished), distortions still exist.
(d) Environmental Degradation. Increasing population pressure on the
land is leading to the destruction of over 1% of Thailand's forest
resources each year. The land being opened up is characterized by
shallow soils and steep slopes and continuing problems of soil
erosion and low returns from agriculture may be expected.
(e) Organization. Responsibility for agricultural development is
fragmented between many agencies and there are often severe problems
of coordination within and between these agencies.
(f) Agricultural Credit. Institutional credit to the sector is not
adequate to the needs; commercial banks are reluctant to lend directly
and the resources of the Government-owned Bank for Agriculture and
Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) are limited.
(g) Land Tenancy. In recent years, land tenancy has increased substan-
tially in certain areas, and there are indications that the average
farm size is declining.
24.       To tackle these problems, the Government intends to accelerate
implementation and planning of agricultural development projects in general
and irrigation projects in particular. Development of the irrigation subsector
plays a major role in the Government's efforts. Irrigation typically leads to
large increases in productivity and farm incomes and can also serve income
distribution goals, provided investment is directed at lower income groups



- 7 -
and regions and is accompanied by the introduction of more equitable taxation
and cost recovery policies. Intensification of production on existing culti-
vated land would also ease encroachment into forest areas.
The Irrigation Subsector
25.       Most of the irrigable areas in Thailand are in the flood plains of
the major rivers where a combination of heavy rainfall and flooding precludes
the cultivation of crops other than paddy in the wet season. In the Chao Phya
Plain, heavy soils predominate and paddy is the preferred crop in the dry
season as well. The situation is similar in the coastal plains of the south.
Dry season cropping is more diversified on the alluvial soils of the north,
and in the small areas so far developed for irrigation in the northeast.
26.       In the wet season, the harvested area of rice averages about 7.7 mil-
lion ha of which the irrigated areas account for some 1.8 million ha. Close
to 0.4 million ha of rice is irrigated in the dry season. Since virtually all
land suitable for rice is now cultivated in the wet season, any major gains
in rice production will have to come from higher yields in both rainfed
and irrigated areas, and increases in the area cropped in the dry season.
27.       To meet domestic demand and maintain Thailand's share of the
world's export market, production would have to increase from 15.1 million
tons of paddy in 1976 to 22.7 million tons in 1990. Over the same period,
assuming a yield increase of 20% in rainfed areas, irrigated paddy production
would have to more than double from 5.5 million to 12 million tons.
28.       The Bank has been associated with the irrigation subsector in
Thailand since 1950 (Loan 36-TH). In recent years, it has become apparent
that the pace of the subsector's development would not accelerate without
improvements in its organizational efficiency. In the Phitsanulok Project
(Loan 1149-TH), it was agreed with the Government and the Royal Irrigation
Department (RID) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC) that
RID's administration, organization and procedures should be reviewed and
where necessary revised to ensure efficient implementation of future programs.
As a preliminary step the Government requested a Bank mission to review
Thailand's irrigation program and RID's organization to help prepare terms of
reference for an organization study (to be financed under Loan 1149-TH). RID
is now selecting consultants and is appointing a counterpart team to monitor
and advise the consultants.
29.       The principle underlying the recommendations of the Bank mission
on RID's organization is that all aspects of an irrigation project (from
planning, design and survey through the construction of main and tertiary
distribution systems, service and farm roads) are integral parts of a whole
and should be under the direct control of a single project manager. Service
divisions should be available to provide necessary technical support, but the
present fragmentation of project activities along functional lines leads to
serious coordination problems and-an unwillingness of any individual to accept
overall responsibility. While RID and its consultants conduct the administra-
tion and organization study, this principle of responsibility along project
lines should be adopted as an interim solution. This modest change would begin
to define more clearly the authority, responsibility and accountability for
better coordination of the project activities.



- 8 -
30.       Since its formation in 1904, RID has constructed irrigation, flood
control and navigation systems which benefit nearly two million ha. Through
the 1930s, RID concentrated on the construction of a network of navigation/
drainage canals and control structures over more than 500,000 ha in the South-
ern Chao Phya Plain. In 1950, following the wartime slowdown in construction,
RID began a program to develop gravity irrigation systems covering 600,000 ha
in the Northern Chao Phya which continued through the 1960s. At the same time
navigation/drainage systems of the Southern Chao Phya were extended to nearly
200,000 ha in the adjacent Bang Pakong Basin. The Bank helped finance part of
this development through Loans 36-TH (which helped finance construction of the
Chai Nat diversion dam, associated headworks and main canals in the Northern
Chao Phya area) and 328-TH (which helped finance the construction of a tertiary
distribution system in the Chao Phya area). Also, in parallel with the develop-
ment of the Northern Chao Phya, the Bhumiphol Dam (Loan 175-TH) was completed
in 1964. This first step in controlling the flow of the Chao Phya's northern
tributaries and providing some dry season storage was followed by the Sirikit Dam
(Loan 514-TH), completed in 1972. Over the past 20 years, RID has also turned
its attention to other river basins and regions. A 160,000 ha first-stage
gravity irrigation system (financed under Loan 394-TH) was constructed in the
Mae Klong Basin and a 50,000 ha scheme in the Petchaburi basin (Loan 327-TH).
RID has also built some large reservoirs and main canals in the northeast and
numerous small schemes in the north, northeast and south.
31.       In developing the Chao Phya Plain, RID's aim was to modify the
natural flood regime over large tracts of land. In the Southern Chao Phya,
which is subject to deep and prolonged flooding, the canals were designed
as flood-relief channels to spread the flood waters more evenly and to promote
drainage at the end of the flood season. These canals also opened large areas
of uncultivated land. In the Northern Chao Phya, drought is more of a con-
straint to rice production than floods, and therefore the diversion dams and
irrigation canals were designed to provide semicontrolled inundation.
32.      This approach, which is appropriate to the vast areas of flat lands
in the Chao Phya Plain, was also applied in other regions and basins with
different topography. The results of this approach were generally unsuccessful
in those areas where flood irrigation is precluded by the uneven terrain, and
much higher standards of mapping and design required under such conditions
have been neglected. These problems are particularly acute in the Northeast
Region and the Mae Klong Basin.
33.       Furthermore, the circumstances that favored extensive agricultural
techniques have now changed. Farms are becoming smaller because of population
pressure, farmers are using more intensive farming methods, and current and
projected prices give the incentives for farmers to take advantage of higher
standards of on-farm development. Thus, further exploitation of Thailand's
irrigation potential will require much more emphasis on a reliable and
timely delivery of water to the fields. This will involve upgrading of
virtually all existing irrigation systems, incorporating higher standards of
water control in these and in new systems.
34.       The Bank mission (see paragraph 28) discussed with the Government an
indicative irrigation development program to be carried out in the period
1977-90 which comprises improvement of existing systems (710,000 ha), extension



- 9 -
of existing systems (290,000 ha), and new projects (315,000 ha). A major
feature of the program is the widespread introduction of higher standards of
tertiary or on-farm development, that is, the construction of ditches, drains
and farm roads needed to achieve the timely and reliable supply of water to
farmers' fields. To be most effective, on-farm development should be carried
out along with improvement or new construction of main systems, and coordinated
with system operation and maintenance. On-farm development can take various
forms ranging from simple tertiary ditches to intensive development, which is
designed to serve each farm with ditches, drains and roads and may require
land leveling and boundary realignment.
35.       A rough estimate of the construction cost of the indicative program,
in 1976 prices, is $1,400 million, to which should be added about $150 million
for initiation of new projects. Annual expenditures would average $110 million
through 1990. Annual operation and maintenance (at $10-15/ha) would average
about $30 million. Allowing for RID overhead and expenditures on other RID
activities, such as navigation works and channel improvement, RID's annual
budgetary requirement would be around $150 million, which is roughly in line
with the budget appropriations to RID in recent years. However, if these invest-
ments are to achieve the 1990 production targets, the planning, design and imple-
mentation of projects would have to be improved. This, in turn, would require
improvements in RID's organization and management (see paragraphs 28 and 29).
36.       A start has been made on some major elements of this program.
Projects to improve existing systems in the Northern Chao Phya Plain
(Credit 379-TH) and Northeast Region (Credit 461-TH) are under way. Major
works under the Phitsanulok Project (Loan 1149-TH) will begin soon.
37.       The first Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit 379-TH)
covering 17,000 ha was designed to meet the requirements necessary to overcome
some of the major constraints of the existing irrigation network and agricul-
tural supporting services in the area. Close monitoring of results to date
has confirmed that a rapid increase in cropping intensity, yields and water
efficiency and control can be obtained on moderately large areas at reasonable
cost following the rehabilitation of main and secondary irrigation and
drainage systems and the construction of on-farm works. Progress in imple-
menting stage one has been generally satisfactory. Targets were fully
achieved in the first two years of construction but administrative problems
in 1976 resulted in a reduction in that year's target. The overall degree of
completion is expected to be about 90% by the end of July 1977, the original
completion date for the project. The remaining works will be completed early
in 1978. Under-this project, a nucleus of trained staff has been developed
and procedures established for the planning, design and execution of on-farm
works, including the use of contractors. Based on these achievements, the
Government has proposed to the Bank a project to expand this mode of develop-
ment to a larger area in the Northern Chao Phya Plain.
38.       The existing irrigation system in the Mae Klong area has been
designed for supplementary irrigation of rice in the wet season. At present a
large area is, however, under rainfed sugarcane. While clearly some form of
on-farm development will be required, it would be unwise to go ahead with the
large-scale implementation of systems developed elsewhere, as the topographic
conditions and cropping patterns of the Mae Klong area may require different



- 10 -
solutions. For this reason the Government has proposed to the Bank a two year
program of pilot projects. Since there are no usable topographic maps and
very few service roads in the Mae Klong area, provision for mapping and road
construction is also proposed.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
39.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government, with the assis-
tance of consultants (Ilaco, Netherlands) financed under the first Chao Phya
Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit 379-TH). The project was appraised in
September 1976. The Staff Project Report is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations took place
in Washington from May 16 to May 20, 1977. The Government delegation was led
by H.E. Khun Arun Panupong, Ambassador to the United States of America and by
Dr. Prida Karnasutr, Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture.
Project Description
40.       The proposed project would benefit directly more than 130,000 farm
families, i.e., more than three quarters of a million people. The project
would improve existing irrigation facilities on 201,000 ha in the Northern Chao
Phya. The construction of three pilot projects and service roads in the Mae
Klong area, together with mapping and feasibility studies in both Northern Chao
Phya and Mae Klong would provide a basis for further development of irrigation
in both project areas. The main components of the proposed project are:
Part A.   Rehabilitation and on-farm development works consisting of ditches,
drains and roads to serve individual farms, boundary realignment and land
leveling, which together would improve water control and farm access for a net
cultivable area of about 63,000 ha in the Northern Chao Phya Plain. These
works are expected to cost about $140/ha (rehabilitation) and $300-600/ha
(on-farm development) for a total of $47 million./l
Part B. Rehabilitation works such as canal reshaping, additional structures
and bridges, improvement of service roads and drains, for more efficient water
control over 138,000 ha (at a cost of $80/ha), as well as topographic mapping
for about 300,000 ha of the Northern Chao Phya Plain. The total cost is
expected to be $14 million./l
Part C.   Topographic and cadastral mapping of about 50,000 ha, construction
of three pilot projects (to demonstrate on-farm development techniques) and
360 km of service roads and associated works in the Mae Klong irrigation area
($13 million)./l
/1 Without contingencies.



Part D.   Consultant services for (a) implementing the above works, (b) prepar-
ing feasibility studies for (i) a third stage project in the Chao Phya Plain
and (ii) a second stage project in the Mae Klong area, and (c) studies of
agricultural supporting services ($3 million)./l
Provision would also be made in the proposed project for improvements in
operation and maintenance, a fisheries development program, and project
monitoring and evaluation.
Project Cost and Financing
41.       The total project cost is estimated at $112 million with a foreign
exchange component of $55 million (49%). Physical contingencies of 15% have
been added to the cost of rehabilitation and road works under Part C of
the project. A contingency of 10% has been added to the cost of on-farm
development, mapping and miscellaneous works. Contingencies amounting to 33%
of the baseline costs have also been provided to cover expected price increases
over the project implementation period. The foreign exchange component has
been estimated on the assumption that all civil works contracts would be won
by local contractors and all equipment contracts by foreign suppliers. Local
expenditures would be met through annual government budgetary allocations to
RID and the other agencies responsible for carrying out the project. The
proposed $55 million Bank loan would finance the estimated foreign exchange
component of the project.
42.       The proposed loan includes an amount of $1.2 million to finance the
foreign exchange costs of the pilot projects and the feasibility study in the
Mae Klong area. The Governments of Japan and Thailand, however, are discussing
the possibility of Japan providing a grant to finance the above costs. Should
this financing become available, the amount provided in the proposed loan for
the pilot projects and the feasibility study would be reallocated to finance
other project-related activities to be agreed with the Bank.
Implementation Period
43.       The implementation period for the proposed project is expected
to be five years. However, the Government has informed the Bank that as part
of its policy to accelerate implementation of agricultural projects (see
paragraph 24), it intends to implement the proposed project in four years.
There are no technical or engineering obstacles which should prevent RID
from achieving this goal and the Government intends to remove existing organ-
izational and procedural bottlenecks which are causing delays in project
implementation. In particular the Government proposes to: (a) appoint,
in a timely manner, able project directors and managers to whom ample authority
would be delegated; (b) provide these directors and managers with full-time
support staff with proper technical and management skills; (c) streamline
procedures for procurement and employment of consultants; (d) eliminate
progressively execution of works by force account (see paragraph 50).
/1 Without contingencies.



- 12 -
Project Organization
44.       The proposed project organization is designed to help the Government
accelerate project implementation. The proposed organization is based upon
the principle of responsibility along project lines (see paragraph 29) and
may be modified following the review of RID's organization, administration
and procedures (see paragraph 28).
45.       RID would have direct responsibility for project implementation.
Within RID, responsibility for all the rehabilitation and on-farm development
works in the Northern Chao Phya Plain would rest with the Deputy Director-
General (Operation and Maintenance) who would act as Project Director. A
senior RID engineer, who has been appointed Project Manager after consultation
with the Bank, would be responsible for day-to-day activities (Section 3.07(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement). A Project Director (to be appointed after
consultation with the Bank) would have ultimate responsibility for all RID's
activities in the Mae Klong area, which are loosely coordinated at present. A
Project Manager (also to be appointed after consultation with the Bank) would
be designated to be directly in charge of all irrigation, drainage and road
construction, and on-farm development in the Mae Klong area (Section 3.07(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       Several other departments within the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MOAC) would also have a role in implementing Part A of the
project. As under the first Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project, the
Central Office of Land Consolidation would prepare Royal Decrees to permit land
consolidation and would further assist RID with on-farm development. These
decrees would be issued in advance of the construction season in areas to be
incorporated under the project (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Land Department of the Ministry of the Interior would be responsible for
cadastral surveys and issuance of title deeds in all parts of the project area
subject to on-farm development. The Land Development Department of MOAC would
be responsible for detailed land classification surveys in advance of the
design work for on-farm development.
47.       The Deputy Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture would act as
Project Coordinator with responsibility for coordinating all project activities.
To facilitate project execution and speed up cumbersome procurement procedures,
a Project Coordination Committee would be established (as a condition of effect-
iveness of the proposed loan) under the chairmanship of the Under-Secretary
of Agriculture to be in.charge of decisions on procurement, budgeting, staffing
and the appointment of consultants (Sections 3.06 and 5.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). This Committee would appoint a Procurement Subcommittee in charge
of approving the bidding documents and bid evaluation. RID would also attempt
to standardize bidding documents for the proposed project to the extent possible.
Consultants
48.       Consultants would be engaged to assist in the implementation of the
rehabilitation and on-farm development works in the Northern Chao Phya area
(Parts A and B of the project) and to undertake a feasibility study for a
third stage of development. About 230 man-months of assistance are expected



- 13 -
to be required. Consultants would also be engaged to assist in the implementa-
tion of the works in the Mae Klong area (Part C of the project) and to under-
take a feasibility study for a second stage of development in the area; an
additional 40 man-months of assistance are expected to be required. Cost
estimates for the consultants' services are based on recent contracts concluded
with international consulting firms in Thailand and countries in the area.
These costs average $7,100 per man-month, including all overheads. In contrast
with the first stage Project, these consultants would take little part in the
day-to-day work of design and construction but would concentrate on broader
aspects such as planning, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and improve-
ments to Operation and Maintenance (O&M).
Procurement
49.       Contracts for roads and associated works in the Mae Klong area
($7.0 million) /1 and the supply of vehicles and equipment ($15.7 million),/l
would be procured following international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. A preferential margin of 15%, or the prevailing customs
duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of
bids. Off-the-shelf items costing less than $10,000 each and limited to a
total of $300,000, would be purchased through normal government procurement
procedures, which ensure adequate competition.
50.       The civil works under Parts A and B of the proposed project consist
mainly of rehabilitation works ($18.5 million)/l and on-farm development works
($32.5 million)./l These works either consist of many small, scattered items
or need to be planned and executed on short notice. They would be undertaken
largely by force account (Schedule 4(D) of the draft Loan Agreement). However,
RID is also building up its capability for preparing bid'documents and super-
vising contractors for this kind of work and at least 35% of the on-farm
works will be contracted. Works of this nature cannot be grouped into packages
large enough to interest international contractors and thus locally advertized
bidding procedures (in which foreign firms will be eligible to participate)
will be applicable (Schedule 4(B) (1) and (2) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
51.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the c.i.f.
cost of directly imported equipment, or the ex-factory price net of taxes for
equi-pment manufactured locally, and at a rate of 65% of total costs for
imported equipment procured locally. For consultants' services and overseas
training, disbursements would equal 100% of total costs. Disbursements for
civil works and mapping would be on a percentage basis. Disbursements for
force account works would be made against certified statements of completed
work. Appointment of a Project Director, a Project Manager and consultants for
the Mae Klong component (see paragraph 45) would be conditions of disbursement
for expenditures related to this component (Schedule 1(4)(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
/1 Without contingencies.



- 14 -
Agricultural Supporting Services
52.       The Government has recently laid much stress on the need to integrate
irrigation development with agricultural supporting services. The existing
fertilizer supply network in Thailand has expanded adequately to meet overall
demand and is expected to continue to expand in the project area to meet the
increased needs generated by the project. Production credit would be available
from the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) and/or
cooperative societies which are rapidly expanding their activities in the
project areas. The existing research stations in the project areas are
providing a sound technological base for the project; improved strains of
rice and other major crops are being produced periodically and fertilizer
response and control measures for the major pests are well understood.
Extension services, which are provided by the Department of Agricultural
Extension (DAE), will be expanded and made more effective under the National
Extension Project (Loan 1393-TH) which will begin to cover the Chao Phya and
part of the Mae Klong project areas in 1978 and 1979. Also, improved seed
would be provided through the DAE. DAE would expand its seed production and
distribution program to meet the needs of the project (Section 3.10 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
53.       Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the main irrigation and drainage
systems and service roads would be the responsibility of RID. O&M standards
are inadequate in the project area at present, due primarily to insufficient
funding, and would be improved under the project. The annual cost of adequate
O&M has been tentatively estimated at $12/ha (early 1977 prices). RID would
operate and maintain all the irrigation and drainage systems and service roads
under its jurisdiction in the Chao Phya area in accordance with sound engineer-
ing standards (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). Operation and
maintenance of on-farm works, i.e. ditches, drains and roads below the farm
turnout, would be the responsibility of the farmers in each service unit who
will have the choice of either executing these works directly or using hired
labor. RID would assist in the establishment of farmers' groups in each
service area. The cost is tentatively estimated to range from $2 to $4/ha/yr.
Cost Recovery
54.       To date, no water charges have been levied on irrigation schemes
operated by RID. The Government felt that the taxes on rice production and
export (which depressed the price received by farmers) were high enough to
recover indirectly the public investments in irrigation. When these taxes
began to be lowered, the Government became aware of the need to recover
directly part of the costs. Under the first Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement
Project, it was agreed that MOAC would carry out a cost recovery study and
start collecting water charges in that project area. Farmers in the Part A
area would be required to pay 50% of the investment cost of on-farm develop-
ment works over 15 years (including a two-year grace period) beginning on the
completion of these works, at an interest rate of 12%. Before December 31,
1977, the Government would make arrangements acceptable to the Bank for the
collection of these amounts by BAAC or other institutions acceptable to the



- 15 -
Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). A general irrigation
charge, to apply eventually to all irrigated areas in Thailand, would also be
introduced to cover O&M costs. The Government has agreed that prior to
July 31, 1978, it would introduce an annual charge of not less than the average
cost of operating and maintaining the irrigation and drainage works of the
Bank financed projects in the Northern Chao Phya area, including on-farm
works, and would promptly collect or cause to be collected such charges from
beneficiaries (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       In terms of present discounted values, the proposed charges would
recover 42% of the total capital and recurrent public sector expenditures on
Part A of the project, assuming a 5% rate of inflation. O&M charges will
reflect actual costs. If all taxes (including the taxes on rice production at
the current level) paid by beneficiaries of Part A are also considered, the
Government would more than recover the cost of constructing, operating and
maintaining the project works.
Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       The Land Policy Division of the Land Development Department of
MOAC would be responsible for monitoring the changes resulting from the
project on a seasonal basis. Evaluation of the performance of the agencies
responsible for construction and supporting services would be carried out by
the agencies themselves. Evaluation of the extent to which the project is
meeting its objectives or the priority of projects of this kind in Thailand's
agricultural development would be carried out from time to time by the Division
of Agricultural Economics. of MOAC.
Environmental Effects
57.       Minimal changes in environmental conditions are anticipated as a
result of the project. Improved drainage should reduce the hazards of water-
borne diseases. Fish production may be adversely affected by better control
of irrigation water and the increased use of chemical pesticides. To counter-
act this tendency, a program of fisheries development, based on private
fishponds, has been included in the project.
Benefits and Risks
58.       About 24,400 farm families, or a total of 137,000 persons live in
the area of Part A of the proposed project. The average farm size is 2.3 ha.
The degree of tenancy varies from 10% to 37%. These farms presently have an
average income of about $800 p.a..; after the project, this income should
increase to about $1,700 p.a. In addition, about 2,000 families of landless
laborers would benefit directly from increased production and employment
opportunities. The project area is currently characterized by high seasonal
unemployment. With the project at full development, the incremental labor
requirement would be about 4.3 million man-days or some 15,000 full-time
agricultural jobs. Most of the additional labor would be needed in the dry
season when employment would otherwise be lowest. While no recent surveys
have been made in the areas to benefit from Part B of the project, it is
reasonable to assume that farm sizes *and tenancy patterns are similar to those
described above. The gross area is 138,000 ha; assuming an average farm size



- 16 -
of about 2.5 ha, about 50,000 families would benefit from the project. The
average farm size in the 160,000 ha area of Part C is about 3.0 ha. Tenancy
varies from 20% to 40% and may be increasing. The type of works under Part C
are so varied in nature and intensity that it is impossible to estimate the
number of beneficiaries. However, it is reasonable to assume that about half
of the 55,000 farm families living in the area would benefit directly from the
improved facilities.
59.       Part A of the project would increase yields and cropping intensity
on about 63,000 ha, and would take advantage of substantial sunk costs from
investments over the past 25 years in diversion and storage dams and the main
water distribution and drainage system. The economic rate of return for Part A
(which accounts for 65% of total project costs) is estimated to be 39%.
Although this rate is high, it is realistic for this type of investment which
provides (at a relatively low cost of $835 per ha and $2,160 per beneficiary
family) an advanced stage of development which would allow farmers to benefit
from substantial past investments in water control facilities. The high rate
of return also indicates the high priority which should be given to this type
of investment in Thailand.
60.       The estimated income distribution effects of Part A of the proposed
project are encouraging. Farm budget estimates indicate that (a) 25-30% of
the farmers in the project area have a household income at about the absolute
poverty level,/1 while the regional average of households at a comparable
income level is 15-20%; and (b) 70-75% of the farmers in the project area have
a household income level at or below the level of the poorest 40% of the
region. The average regional household income level is of the same order of
magnitude as the national average. Although income distribution data in
Thailand are subject to wide interpretation, it is nevertheless significant
that the concentration of the farm population around critical income levels is
higher in the area of Part A of the project than elsewhere in the region
and in the country.
61.       As the rehabilitation works to be constructed under Part B of the
project (which accounts for 18% of total project costs) are varied in character,
it would be difficult to establish a direct relationship between costs and
benefits. The following analysis should therefore be treated as approximate.
The proposed rehabilitation works would cost about $83/ha and would lead to
an increase in paddy yields of about 10% (230 kg/ha), giving an economic rate
of return of 15%. For Part C (which accounts for 17% of total project costs),
the pilot projects for on-farm development would be expected to have about
the same rate of return as similar works under Part A, in addition to their
applied research value. The service roads in the Mae Klong area should permit
more efficient operation and maintenance of the irrigation system, especially
after dry season water becomes available in 1979. Improved service roads
should lead to an increase in the operational efficiency of the irrigation
/1 Absolute poverty income level is defined as the level of income which is
necessary to purchase (a) a nutritionally adequate, typical subsistence
diet and (b) minimum nonfood requirements. This level is estimated at
about $435 p.a. per household in the region, and $445 p.a. per household
country-wide.



- 17 -
system of at least 1%. This corresponds to an increase in the dry-season
cropped area of about 3,000 ha; giving an economic rate of return of at least
15%. Additional benefits of even greater magnitude would result from the
reduction in transport costs for the region's produce and the likely increase
in the sugar extraction rate, but few data are available to quantify these.
62.       The rate of return of the prolect as a whole is estimated at 31%.
63.       There are no unusual risks associated with this project.     The risks
normally associated with irrigation projects (i.e., (a) lower than expected
yields and (b) smaller than expected area used for double cropping) have been
taken into account in estimating project benefits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. An
additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that the Project
Coordination Committee has been established (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Appointments of a Project Director, Project Manager and consultants
for the Mae Klong component are conditions of disbursements for expenditures
related to this component (Schedule 1(4)(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 15, 1977
Washington, D.C.






TABLE JA                                   Page I of 3 pages
THIASICA ICWOICAt!RS DAA SHEET
LAWS AREA (TROB KR2)........
-----------                                      THAILAND                                RE~;FERECE COUNTRIES (1970)
rOT;L.       514.0                                          MOST RECENT
AGR C.       112.4                         1 960       1910    ESTIMATE            PHILIFPINES     EOIMA, UZP. Cl   JAPAN *
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                         a0.           210.0      .350.0                230.0        210.0       2650.0
POPULATION AhNt VITAL STATISTIS
POPULATION (4IO-TM.    MILLION)             26. 6        36. 3        112.3                36.9         31. 4       10 4. 3
POPULATION DENSITY
P'ER SQUARC K(9.                          52.0         11.0         82.0                12 1.0       31 9. 0      282.0
PER SQ. KAR. AGRICULTURAL LAND           2611.0          .         263.0/9              279.0       1320.0       1575.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE S1F1W RACE~ (/THOU, AV')            1,7.1.       11.3        413.41                41. 2        35.0         17.5
CRUDE OEAT iRA IAE' OIH00, ATV)           19.8         13.7         10.8                 13.2         11 .1         7.1
IN4FANT MORTALIIY RATE    W/HOU)            ..          0.0        68.0 /               80.0            ..        1 3.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY VT BIR.TH (TAS)           4,9.0        55.5         56.0                .55.6         57.7         71.1
GROSS NEPROLUCTION,RATE                     ..          3.2          3.1                  3.3          2.6          1.0
POPULATIO~N GACWTM rATE El)
TOTAL                                      3.0          3. 1         3 .1                 3. 0        .2.3          1. 0
U,AHAN                                     5.2         -4.9          5.1                  4. 0         6.11         4. 0
JROAN PCPULA TION (2I OF TO TAL)            12.7          15.0        16.5                 27.6         1l1.2        8 4. 4
AGE STRUCTURE (PORCENT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                            4.3. 0       45. 0                             4.15..6      4 2.1       2 4.-0
IS TO) 64 TEARS                           54. 0        52. 0                             5i .6       5 4.6        48.9
65 YEARS ANDO 0EV                          3. 0         3. 0          ..2.'                            3. 3         7. 1
AGE IEPENDE4CT RATIO                         0.9          0.9           ..0.9                            0.8          0.5
ECONOMIC 3EPE10NOCYC RATIO                   1.1I         1.1           .1.5                             1. 4         0. 6
FAMILY PLAhNING
ACCEPTORS (CURULAtIVE.     THOU)            4.170.0               2060.0                0 54 .0
USERS (I TF MARRrEI WMONEt)                 .          10. 0        26.6-                 2.Q         42.0
E4PLOY RENT
TOTAL LAOOR FGRCO    (TFOUSAND)          1 37 00. 0   L~6700.0    1 770 0. 0           12300.0      10400.0      53 3 00. 0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (Z1              92.0T        79. 0        7 6.0                55.0A~       5 0.5/a      1 9. 0
IJNE4PLOTEO (% OF LARO9 FOrICE)                ..                      7.0/0                 . 0          5.0 7       1. 2
INCOME UISTRIIUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOMF' AEC'0 4Y-
HIGHEST   52 CF HCUSEHOLDS                  .....                                           .17.1                  1 4.2
hIGHEST 251   OF HOUSEROLDS                 .....                                          .           ,,5        37.6
LOWEST   2T1 OF~ HOUSEHOLDS                 .....                                           .7.1                    8.8
LOWEST    4 02 CF FCUSEHOLC3.                             .            .*                              17.7        2 2 .3
CTSTRIAIUTIOA nTF LAND OWNERSHIP
Z,OWNED. AT TOP 132 OF OWNERS                 Z..                        ..                              8.0
IOWNED AT SMALLBST 10% OWNERS                 ...                                            .          2. 0
HEALTH'AND NUTAItION
.POPULAT ION PER PAYSICIAN                 86 00. 0     1970. 0      5 3 80. 0/bA                      22OR~          8.
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                  ..      6650.0       4540.0                   ..       Fb.'O.?      200
POPULATION PEN HOSPI TAL BED              13z0.0 /b      S.          8007                 8500         92.0~ -       80.0 '
PER CAPITA SUFPLT CF 
CALORIES (0 OF REQUIRCEMETS)              9 5.0       0 05. 0      115.0/d              100.0       1803. 0      106.0
PROTEIN. VR NS PER DAY)                   47. 0        52. 0        56.0 Zd              45 0         65. 0        16. 0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PLLSE                .         I 7. 0                            22.0         0 9. 0       4 5. 0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES I4.                                  ..                             9.A                        .
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           136.0 ~'_     82.0         83.0/a               oeo         140           0.
SECONDARY SCHOaL                           7.I 60.                                        8 0:ol      1.0:        91.0Ia
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                     0         6                                    c(                    9I0
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                  12. 0        12. 0        12.0                 10.0         12. 0        12.0
VOCATIONAL. TNMOLLMENT
(I OF SECTNOART.)                         19. 0        14. 0        1 3.0 /a.             6 0   ~     16. 0        20. 0
ADULT LI TERACT RATE (I)                        .         79.0        82.0                   .          87.0         9 9.0a
HOUS 1PAG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                      .                          ..                              271.
OCCUPIED DWLLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATR .(I)                             .             ..                              68    .     8.             .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITT                                                                      66-S          80/           .
(1 OF ALL ObILLING3).                                    .          6 3. '/a,f            MS.81       50. 0 
RURAL DWELLINGS COMNBCTEO
TO ELECTRICITY (2)                          1..                      3.Oaa                6.0/d       30. 0
CONSUMPTI ON
R4010 RECEIVERS APER THOU FOP)               6.0         ?8. 0        76.0                 45.9        1 2 . 0      55 1.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)                2. 0         S. 0         1.8a/a              a8.8          2.0         811.0
ELECTRICITY CRWHATF PER CAP)                23.0        124. 0       0 94 .0              2 35.0       307. 0      3 39 1.0
MEWSPRINT (PIG/YR PER CAP)                   0.1r         1. 0         1.4                   I.a          .          1.
SEE NOTES ARD OEFENIT IONS ON REVERSE



Affi= I
Pa-ge2 of 3 pages
NOTES
unless otherwise noted, dats for 1960 refer to many year between 1959 sod 1961, for 1970 bet-eeb 1968 and 1970, anod for Host Receot Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
-5 Although Japan's GNP par capita is nuhltgher thao that of Thliland, Japan has boeen selected sa an, abjeotiv country b-cauae Thailand's davslopneot
process can reaonbly be mesaured against that of Japan, an Asian country Aitch is highly trade oriented, has movd fron am agriculturally based to an
industrially based economy, and indoing no has retained Its cultural distinction.
TRAILAND             1960    /5  Ratio of Population under 15 and 60 end nrc -to- labor force age 15-59i      lb  1962;   /c   7-10 and 11-18 yea"r of age
respectively. 
1970    /a  1964-66;    lb  7-13 and 14-18 years of age respectively;     Ac  Public echools, which include technical education at the
post-secosdery level. 
HOOT RECENT ESTIMATE:     Ia  1971;    /b  1972;   Ic ;EDngksl;    fd  1969-71 average;    Is  Poblicj mennol. which include technical
education at the pus isecondary levelj     /f  As percent of populetion in Bangkok netropolitan area;
IA  Other 67 provinces. 
PHILIPPINES          1970    I   A. percentage of employment'     lb  7-12 mad 13-16 years of age respectively;     Ls Not including private vocational
achnols or vocational short-tern couresea     LA  1967;    le  Inside only;    If Imports only.
~KOREA.REP.,Op       1970    ~   As percentage of ecploymont;     lb  Registered;    /c  Registered,,not ell practicing in the country;      Id' Water piped maside.
R1O, August 19, 1976
VI'tKBi     OP SOCIAL INDICAIV5
Land Area (t!hou foe2                                                                 Psouation ner nursing noreoc - Population divided by nunhe of pr-oc iccg
Total        I Tota   ot ac rmsa -ceprising land ores and inb1nd waer,al                     and fnamla graduteuss       "trained" or "certified" nur..as, ad
Agric. - oot recent estimate of agricultural are  used tnporarily or Pernm-             euniliary personnel with teaming or enperienc.a.
nenctly for crops, pasturee, carhat & kitchec gardens cr to lie falln.              Pponlation ear hosnital bed - Population divided by suober of hospital beds
available in public end prIva te gerneral and specialiced hospital and
GNP ear canita (0S5) - GNP? per caPita estiaces at currant erket prices,                rehbilitation centarn; acladee nursing hsns    and establisis.eots for
calculated by as conversion onthd as World Sank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                           per csoita suyply of colories Cl of reaoiranenta) - Cooputed f ro  enargy
equivalent of net food suppiias vailabla in country per capit. per day;
PP.o.tiaon and vital acoistic!                                                           -volabla aupplies conprime donamtic production, imports loss enports, end
Poocl.tion mid-year nillon)     do o.f July first:  if nor avilable, average            changes in stock; net auPplies seclude animal feed, sesds, quantitias used
of two sod-year eatinatee; 1:~60, 1970 and 1975 data.                                 in food process Ing and lan.sa in distribution; reqoirsante  -re estimated
by FAO based on physioIogics1 needs for noena ac.tivity and health consid-
Population density -par snuare ho - Mid-year population per square kilceotar            sting enviroseta1 temperature, body maighta, age end see distributions of
(100 hectaras) of total area'                                                         pupulation, and sl11ning 101 for vaste at household laval.
Population denity - ne senat A     of antic, land - Conp.tod as aboe for              Per c-Pit. sunplr of protain (arsomnopr day) - Protein content of per capita
agrica1tura1 loand only.                                                              not supply of fond per day; net sopply of food is defined as above; require-
neete for all coutries eatablished by USDA Econoic Research Services
Vital atatitico                                                                          provide for a niimoi allousoca of 60 groom of total protein Per day, and
Crude birth rate net thousand. av-roe  - AnnualI live births per thousand of             20 greno of animal and pulse protein, of uhich IS gros should be animal
aid-year population; tan-yea r eritloteic averagoesnding in 1960 end 1970,             protein; these tstadards are Innr than thone of 75 groc  of total protein
end five-yeer versg. andiog in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                         and 23 gram  of oninal protein asamverage for the world, prepand by FAO
Crude death race nertchn,uoand. --orsa  - Annual1 desthe Per thousand of nid-year        in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-ysar arirhotic averagee ending in 1960 and 1970 end five-           Per capita protein sonoly frin  anim al nd pulse - Protein supply of food
yeravrgeeding in 1975 for o.ct recent estimate,                                 derived iron animals and pubes in gr-n per day.
Infant        Cytait  rt  /hu -Anuldth        ofifnsodroeyaofge                       Dthate /thou; sass 1-4 - Annual deaths per th4ue-d in age group 1-4
par thous and live births.                                                            years, to children In thia age group; soggooted as an indicator of
Life esnect_ny at birth (y-e) - Average nuobar of yasra of life remining at              malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averges ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
Ing countries .                                                                     Education
irose reproduction rate - Avorage nunher of live daughters a woana vill bear           Adjusted enrollment ratio - prmagry school - Enrollment of all agee as per-
in her nornI reprnductiv   period if eh. ooprieocsa present age-specific               centai. of primary school-see paplation; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; -usuliy fivs-yaar avergags ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975             but adjusted for different lengths of prinary education; for countries with
for davalopig countries,                                                               universal education, enrollmet may sense d 100X since soon  pupls. ar baby.
Population arouth rate (%) - total - Conpoud annua grouth rates of aid-year              or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 sod 1970-75.                                         Adjusted OnrIelawot ratio - socendary school - Conputed as shove; secondary
Population atr-th rats (%) - urban - Conputd lihe groeth rate of total                    duca.tion requires at leas.t four years of approved primacy instruction;-
population; diffeoro,t definitions of urbn areas may affect comparability of           provides general, voca.tiona  or teac.her training instructions for pupils
date anon  countrieo.                                                                  of 12 to 17 years of oge; osrreepondeoce courses are gene.rally  mo.ludsd.
Urba peultlon ( of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different              leasts of schoolino provided (first and necond lev-Ie) - Total yrear  of
definitions of urban areas may affeCt conparability of data  ..og countries,           schooling; at secondary level, vocational instrution may he psrtislly or
completely eecludsd.
ARe  tructure (percet) - Children (0-14 years), woking-epa (13-64 years),             Voc4at-Ioa  Inolest       of atscodry; - vonation`J. institutions, imalude
and retirad (65 yosrs and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                 tehia,idstilo             t     prog ren  whlch operate independently or a
Age dependency ratio - tRSo1 of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to th.oe               epertenta of secondary instItutionam.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                               Adult lit-reracy rate (1) - Literate adults (able to read and write) so per-
Scononic depeadeacy ratio - aRloi of population under 15 sad 65 and over to              cntage of total adult population aged 15 years and ovr.
the labor freIn age aRup of 15-64 years.
Pocil oloim      acceptors irmemltive. thou) - Conultio- nber of accptors             Hous fra
of birth-cotrol deo-r- ,der auspices of notional fanily pI.Leo    g progrem          Person  par coon (urban) - Average nmober of persona, per reo  in occupied
isic  inepio.oventional deslIIge in urhen areas ; dwellings eelude                                                                              on-pensmanene
PFnily planing    users a of married wonen   - Percentages of maried   -ea of            structure  and unocupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married          c..cpoid dwellings without pined water CZ) - Occupied conventioaml dwellings
won-en Ie aen  o. group.                                                               in urban, and rural areas without inaide or outside piped water f-oilities
as- pecntg      f all ocuied dweligs
EunloY-ant                                                                             Aces to electricit    i o.fp all dwelings  - ConventIonal dwwIliegs wth
Total labor forte (thousand)  E- icnoically actrive Person, including spicd              electricity Sn Ilving qonrter  as percent, of total dwellgs in urban and
forces and uneplnyd hut exclding housewives,     tudenro, etc.; definitions            mrura  areas.
in, various countries are not coRrbu.cral dueIlime                                                   connected to  lctrniciy i)-Conputed as above for rura
Labor force In agric-lcure CX) - Agricultural labor force- (Sn fsomi.g, forestry,        dwmllinga only.
hunting and fIs hing) so percetage of total loaor force.
Unemployed Cl uf labor force) - Unnployed are usIly defined en persons who             Conannetiom,
are able and of In tg to tabs a Job, out of a job 05 a given day, rosinead out       Radio receiver  font thou P-P) - All types of receivers for radio broadcaato
of a job, sad ..eeking work for a specified ninimas period not exceding one,           to general public per thousand of Population; emcludes unlicensed receivers
weask; may not be coparable between countries due to different dafinStioass            in countries and in year when registration of radio sets was in effsect;
of unmplayed sod source of data, e.g., onplnyment office tratincica, saple             data far recet years may not be comparable since mast tousotries, aboliohed
eurvya. conpolasry neemploynt Insurance,                                               licens,ing.
Passenger cars fonttho=  pa) - Pa...enger care comprise  tmao care seating
iscia distribution - Percentage of private innsm (hoth In csh end kind)                  laes than eight proaeclades ambulances, hesenwa and military
received by richest It, rirhoar 201, pooret 201, and pooret 401 of house-              vehicles.
holds.                                                                               Elsetricity ikbebyr net cap) - denual monsomption, of industrial,osril
Pu-blic end private electricity in kilonatt hour Per caPita, generally
Distribution of loand onnerebip - Percentages of land onned by weaelthiest 10%           based On production, data, without allonon  for lasses in grids but allye-
end poorest 101 of land onnere.                                                        ing for imports and meporta of electricity.
Newsprint (bat/yr pear cap) - Pot capita annual co-somption in kilogram
NaIdh end Nutrition,                                                                     atimated from dusestic production plus ot Isparta of newsprint.
Population per phreinian - Popustion, divided by nmber of proctiing
pbyeioisn qualified from, a nsdica1 school at university leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pases
EGONONIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL INCOl   IN 1975                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(%, constant prices)
US $ mln      *%        l9M0,65     1965-70    1970-75
GRY at Market Prices             14,595     100.0         7.5         8.5        6.5
Gross Denestic Investment         3,912      26.8        14.4        13.5        5.1
Gross National Savings            3,293      22.6        11.8        11.3        5.7
Current Account Balance            -619      -4.2      -27.0         31.0        2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS             2,860      19.6         9.9         6.7        6.8
Imports of Goods, NPS             3,565      24.4       11.3         12.6        3.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added-               Labor Fore2            VA    per Worker-h/2
US S mln.          %        Million          %         US $.
Agriculture        4,559          31.3        13.4            75.7      340                41
Industry          4,442           30.4         1.4             7.9    3,170               386
Services          5.588           38.3         2.9            16.4    1.930               235
Total/Average   14,589         100.0        17.7           100.0      820               100
GOVERNMENT FINANCRF
Consolidata4 Public Sector         Central Government
(US$ mln,)    % of GOPJ'        (US$ mln.)   % of GDP 14
1975       1975 1973-75         1975      1975 1973-75
Current Receipts                          2,263       15.8    16.2        1,992      13.9    14.3
CurreitExpenditures and Transfers         1.812       12.7    12.1        1.840      12.9    12.2
Current Surplus                             451        3.1.    4.1          152        1.0    2.1
Capital Expenditures                        730        5.1     5.1          376       2.6     2.9
External Assistance (net)                    68        0.5     0.5            3        ...    ..
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1970   1971   1972    1973   1974   1975
(Billiona of Baht outstanding end Period)
Money and Quasi Money                         46.2    53.7   66.6   81.9   98.3   113.4
Bank Credit to Central Government (net)       13.0    19.7   27.0   29.6   25.7   30.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 27.8   30.8    34.6   49.4   66.6   80.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             33.9    37.1   40.4   37.8   36.6   38.8
GDP Deflator (1962 - 100)                    113.5  111.6   121.8  145.3  172.4  177.3
Annual percentage -changes in:
GDP Deflator                                -0.6   -1.7     9.2   19.3   18.7    2.8
Bank Credit to Central Government (net)     53.5   51.2    37.4    9.5  -13.2   20.0
Bsank Credit to Private Sector              21.5   10.7    12.2   42.9   34.9   21.4
BALANCE OF PAYhENTS                         1973   1974    1975   1976&                 MERCHUIDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
US$ Million                                                     US$ Million    %
Exports of Goode, NPS                      2,085   3,085         3,4U7                  Rice                           320       15.4
Imports of Goods, NFS                      2   93,3.99                                  Rubber                         218       10.5
Resource Gap (deficit    _)                                                               1 Cern (WaO)                 246       11,8
Interest payments (net)                        7     36     69     -                    Tapioca products    -          183        8.8
Other Factor Paymentas(net)                  -28     37      4     -32                  Tin (Metal)                    122        5,9
Other Fctor Pyments(net)               -28     -37    -64                         Sugar                           179       8.5
Workers' Remittances
Net Transfers -                              143    24       82     26                  Kenef and jute                  42        2.0
Current Balance               _iT                    90   -618    -498                  All other commoditiea          772      37,1
Direct Foreign Investment (netP               67    137     65      81                                  Total        2,080     100.0
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                       EXTERNAL DBT, DECEMBER 31. 1975
Disbursements                              265    515    542     5S9                                                     US$ Million
Amortization                               262    265     351    298                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          615
Subtotal                                     3    250    191    2i6                   Non-Gu-ranteed Private Debt            736
Capital Grants                                                                          Total outstanding & disbursed        1,351
Other Capital (netl2                         142     66     105    224                  Td
Other Items n.e.i./8                         -51    119     62      47                  DEBT SiRVICE RATIO FOR 1975
Increase in Reserves (+)                     113    482   -195     115                                                         7.
Gros Reserves (end year)                   1,295  1,858Public Debt, incl.                                     aranteed
Net Reserves (end year)                    1,082  1,564   1,369  1,484                  Non-Garanteed Private Debt            12.8
Total public & private non-
Fuels and Related Materials                                                                                                   15.4
Imports                                    229    629    684     7*9                  garanteed debt
of which:pftroleum                         175    519    578     -61O                 ISBRD/IDA LEWDING. [IANUARY 31, 1977-(US 8 M;Elion)
Exports                                     18     15      11    .10                                                       InBaD  IDA
of which:petroleum                          18     15      11     I0                  Outstanding & Disbursed-'0          302.5   10.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                        Outsatnding Incl. Undisbursed      390.5    21.4
Through July 1973  US$ 1.00 - B 20.8,   B 1.00 - US $ 0.48
Since July 1973    US$ 1.00 . B 20.0    B 1.00 - US $ 0.50
1  At current market prices.                                        L7   Includes sort-term public and private capital and portfolio
2 Estimated.                                                              inve.tewt.
3_Thai fiscal years ending on September 30.                          A   Includes  DR allocations, profits from exchange realignments.
4 Estimates for GDP during fiscal year t were derived by adding          and errors and omissions.
1/4 of GDP at calender year t-l to the 3/4 of GDP for year t.     /9  Ratie of debt service to exports of goods asd non-fastor
L5  Includes official and private transfers.                              servtc.s
6  Equity capital only.                                             /10  net oi Bank of Thailand participation in IBRD loans.
/a lstiutte.
,,, Less tian 0.1 percent.



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                      Less Cancellations
Credit No.  Year    Borrower               Purpose       Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-two loans fully disbursed                        362.4      -        -
702-TH      1970    Port Authority of      Ports         12.5      -     0.6
Thailand
822-TH      1972    Kingdom of Thailand    Education     15.4      -    11.2
864-TH      1972    Telephone Organiza-    Telecommuni-  37.0      -    11.5
tion of Thailand       cations
870-TH      1972    Kingdom of Thailand    National      28.6      -      8.2
Highways
369-TH      1973    Kingdom of Thailand    Education        -   19.5     14.3
379-TH      1973    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation       -    5.5     0.3
898-TH       1973   State Railway          Railways      15.0      -      1.0
461-TH      1974    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation       -    7.0      3.8
977-TH      1974    Electricity Genera-    Power         75.0      -     49.3
rating Authority of
Thailand
992-TH      1974    Industrial Finance     Industry      12.0      -      2.7
Corporation of
Thailand
1021-TH     1974    Metropolitan Water-    Water Supply  55.0      -    42.5
works Authority
1149-TH     1975    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation    95.0      -    92.6
1198T-TH    1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Rural Devel-
opment      21.0       -    20.8
1199T-TH    1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Livestock      5.0      -      4.9
1243-TH     1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Rubber
Replanting  50.0       -    50.0
1253-TH     1976    Telephone Organiza-    Telecommuni-
tion of Thailand        cations      26.0      -    26.0



ANNEX II
Page 2
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                      Less Cancellations
Credit No.  Year    Borrower               Purpose       Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1271-TH     1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Education     31.0     -      31.0
1327-TH     1976    Industrial Finance     Industry      25.0     -     25.0
Corporation of
Thailand
1393-TH     1977    National Agricul-      Agriculture   28.0           28.0
tural Extension /a
Total                                         893.9   32.0   423.7
of which has been repaid                    150.3      -
Total now outstanding                         743.6   32.0
Amount sold /b                   65.2
of which has been repaid       29.0          36.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                707.4   32.0
Total undisbursed                             405.3   18.4
/a Not yet declared effective.
/b Of which $37.6 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Year         Company            Type of Business     Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Concrete Products      0.30      -     0.30
Aggregate Ltd.
1964   Industrial Finance      Industrial Finance        -   0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1969   Siam Cement Group       Cement and Construc-
tion Materials        18.33   3.75    22.08
1971   Industrial Finance                                    0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1975   Siam Cement Group        Cement and
Construction          10.00      -    10.00
Materials
Total gross commitments                       28.63   4.13    32.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       18.48   2.09    20.57
Net held by the Corporation                   10.15   2.04     12.19



ANNEX II
Page 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(as of May 31, 1977)
Loan No. 702   Third Bangkok Port Project; $12.5 Million Loan of
August 6, 1970; Effective Date: November 6, 1970;
Closing Date: original, July 31. 1974; current, December 31,
1976
The project is substantially completed. At the request of the
Borrower, the undisbursed balance of $0.6 million is being cancelled.
Loan No. 822   Second Education Prolect (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Due to initial delays, previously reported, project completion is
likely to be delayed about one year. Construction began in March 1976, civil
works are expected to be completed by mid-1978. About half of the equipment
contracts have been awarded. Implementation of the technical assistance
program is well underway. Project costs are expected to exceed the appraisal
estimate by about $8 million due to cost overruns for civil works. The
Government has made budgetary provisions to meet the cost overruns.
Loan No. 864 Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project is about two years behind schedule because of initial
delays in procurement. Procurement action on all Bank-financed items is now
substantially complete and the loan amount has been committed. Over 50% of the
local telephone network expansion under the project is complete and the balance
will be completed by March 1978, 18 months behind schedule. However, because
of delays in procurement of the microwave systems under a bilateral loan, the
long-distance network expansion under the project will be completed only in
December 1978, two years. behind schedule. About $35 million is expected to
be disbursed from the loan by the current Closing Date; the Borrower has
requested an extension.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway ProJect; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26. 1973; Closing Date: December 31. 1977
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts of
which four have now been completed. Work on seven of the contracts was
interrupted in 1974 because rapid increases in costs led to financial prob-
lems for the contractors since, despite the Bank's recommendation, the
contracts provided only for costs escalation on petroleum products while
costs of materials, labor, equipment, and spare parts also escalated rapidly.
Work was resumed on three contracts after renegotiating the contract prices
with the Government. The other four contracts were terminated by agreement
between the Government and the contractors. In one case, a new contract was
awarded to the third lowest of the original bidders, at a price lower than
was acceptable to the second lowest bidder or to the original contractor. On
the remaining three contracts, new bids were obtained for completing the
works, contracts were awarded and work was resumed in early 1976. Over 75%
of the work has been completed. Because of higher prices in the bids for
completing the unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be
around $75 million, or about 28% above the appraisal estimate, with Government
financing the overruns. In spite of these difficulties the project is likely
to be completed no more than one year behind the original schedule. The
highway maintenance study and feasibility studies for future projects have
been completed, and detailed engineering of the roads found to be feasible is
nearly completed.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation remains about 12 months behind schedule,
but past problems concerning weak management, overcommitment of the staff,
lengthy and cumbersome approval procedures, lack of funds, and late recruit-
ment of technical assistance have largely been overcome. The project manage-
ment and procurement procedures have been strengthened considerably through
steps initiated as part of the Fourth Education Project (Loan 1271-TH).
Adequate provisions have been made to meet the expected cost overruns and
noticeable progress was achieved in civil works, procurement and technical
assistance. About 90% of the total civil works contracts and 60% of the
total furniture and equipment contracts have been signed. Technical assis-
tance is keeping pace with physical facilities. Project costs are now esti-
mated at $60 million, 50% above the appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 379 Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is expected to be about 90% completed by July 1977,
with the remaining works being held over to 1978. Until recently, project
construction and disbursements were in line with appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 6
In 1976, force account construction continued satisfactorily but administra-
tive problems caused a delay in the employment of contractors until the 1977
working season. A project extension service has been set up and is operating
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 898 Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
Parts of the project are behind schedule by about 18 months due to
slow procurement. However, apart from rails needed for track renewal (now
being financed by the Government), all material has been received. The
remaining item financed by the loan, technical assistance, should soon com-
mence, under a contract now being negotiated with consultants. The growth
in passenger traffic slowed in 1975/76, due to passenger fares being increased
in November 1975. Freight traffic has commenced to grow again (6% in 1975/76)
and further increases are expected in following years, mainly due to increased
cement production. Despite the tariff increases of late 1975, the SRT failed
to earn any return in 1975/76, (against the prescribed 2% rate of return),
but, with the increased traffic, it expects to earn 0.8% in the current year,
together with a debt service coverage of 1.4 times (against 0.4 times in
1975/76).
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1-979
The project is about one year behind schedule through delays in
appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment. During the
1976/77 working season there has been a marked improvement in the pace of
construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Progress in rehabilitation of
main canal systems has been satisfactory although somewhat behind schedule.
Encouraging-progress is being made in developing agricultural extension services
in the project areas. The estimated project cost is $24.7 million, or about
96% over the appraisal estimate. In part, the increased cost is due to price
inflation being higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large part of the
increase is due to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over the entire
project area and to adopt higher standards for tertiary development than
envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are compensated for by increases in
projected commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at
28% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component is
satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 977 Ban Chao Nen Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Construction of the project is slightly ahead of schedule. Based
on the recent sector review, it appears that the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand's (EGAT) financial position may become difficult,
unless tariffs are raised. This and other sector issues were reviewed with
the Government in October 1976. The Cabinet is expected to implement tariff
increases between June and September 1977.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4. 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's opera-
tions and financial condition have continued to be good.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Owing to considerable delays in contract awards, some of which
have been retendered, the project completion may be delayed by about 12
months beyond the original schedule, i.e. until mid-1979. Consequently,
disbursements are lagging behind the earlier estimates but no change in the
Closing Date seems necessary at this time. Financial performance of MWWA
continues to be less than satisfactory.   The Borrower is taking steps to
improve its billing and collection of revenue and has asked its consultants
to evaluate its leakage control programs to reduce high volume of unaccounted
for water. Proposals for increase in tariffs are also receiving Government's
consideration.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
As a result of delays in hiring consultants, the start of major
construction was delayed by about a year. However, tenders were recently
received on the first major civil works contract; most of the equipment for
the project is now on order and prospects are good that no further serious
delays will occur. The on-farm works are proceeding on schedule, with two
pilot projects in operation and four more nearing completion. The consulting
services for the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of
resident staff and a greater level of assistance in project management.
Systems for monitoring project benefits and water-associated diseases are



ANNEX II
Page 8
being established and the reporting of project progress has improved. The
first phases of the Chao Phya Basin Study and the Pattani Irrigation Feasi-
bility Updating Study, also financed from the loan, have been completed.
Consultants are being selected for the RID Administration and Organization
Study.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29. 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has seven components: construction of 1,300 km of
village access roads; strengthening maintenance programs for 2,000 km of
existing rural roads, including provision of equipment; rural electrification;
village water supplies; development of improved techniques for upland crop
cultivation; an agricultural extension program in four provinces; and agricul-
tural development in two existing land settlements. Implementation of the
road components has fallen six months behind schedule due to delay in the award
of a consulting contract, now due to be signed in October. Progress has been
slow in the upland crop component due to problems in management, staffing and
organization. Other components are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Progress is satisfactory.  The seed production and pasture develop-
ment program is on schedule; the "Loaned-Bull" Program after a faulty beginning
is now gathering momentum; serious problems with project staffing are near
resolution and the technical assistance component is being ably implemented
by the experts financed by the New Zealand Government. Disbursements are
considerably behind schedule, but should pick up within the next few months
once outstanding requests for disbursements are received in the Bank.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Pate:  January 14, 1977; Closing Date:   June 30,
1981
Much useful preparatory work in research, training and expansion of
production capacity for planting material has been done and the project is
off to a good start. First year targets are expected to be reached.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is on schedule. Procurement action has been initiated
for all components and civil works has commenced.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Consultant
architects have been engaged, contracts for four diversified secondary
schools have been awarded, and bids have been invited for the first phase of
equipment. A contract has been signed for the training of school adminis-
trators at the University of Alberta.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The loan was declared effective on March 14, 1977. Two subloan
applications totaling $5 million are being reviewed by the Bank.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT II
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: June 1974 -
April 1976.
(b) Project prepared by Government (Ministry of Agriculture and Cooper-
atives/Royal Irrigation Department), with consultant assistance
(Ilaco, Netherlands).
(c) Need for Stage II project identified at time of appraisal of Chao
Phya Irrigation Improvement Project I (mid-1972) and feasibility
studies funded under that project. Preappraisal missions in
February and May, 1976.
(d) Appraisal mission: September 1976.
(e) Completion of negotiations: May 20, 1977.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 31, 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) establishment of Project Coordination Committee is a condition for
effectiveness of the proposed loan (paragraph 47);
(b) appointment of a Project Director, Project Manager and consultants
for Part C is a condition for disbursement for expenditures related
to this component (paragraphs 45 and 51);
(c) the Government has agreed to recover from the beneficiaries of
Part A of the proposed project 50X of the on-farm development
costs and from the beneficiaries of Parts A and B of the proposed
project, and of the first Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project,
O&M charges (paragraph 55).






[)o-            F -? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to      102               10 4         C-       _S HN
_p E <q  '     $>  g     ~~~~~~~~~~~~LAO& PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  <CAMOI
< cMaeHonqso) t   E  i\   { t ?  8   12 REPUBLICSm          G/       _JA
8'  nji fAS t';:'''/>','C".:
4   \   k   X   )t   (   a d,t   /  o   y   C  L pel   )   U d o n  T h a nlS   |   l  'h~c h "
f   6 ; )   \   D a m   <   5 U > h o t~ ~ ~~~~6h,l   / \ >   r   l ' \ / X   \ \ 
4);  h  --) o  au.- \-g je i    O e7- ( &  | \ L)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INGPOR
,   " T'         ;                                                ,,
-IA°          0g -L                                                                           14--
\   !  ,1 ^XtouoSonmqkh;am (ochon8url ',   C,  THAILAND
Seb;Jn              rCT ,,-sb- C1-                             PROJECT LOCATION
Sea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ %  /t   0raO(B             PROIECT BOUNDARIES
-12-                                                     -                  REGENTLI -sSISTED BI ThREGBA " N"GF-JE
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -t - -iPca PRDVINC/AL BOUNDAT' ES
g  7 t   /  hirl Khan     Q   A         _._  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
W /  3uat Tham OJ  -  Gul/f o f                                   J
f  \-,-,  _~' \     Thalland                                 /
Ph9gg                 S, <\;+ 
-8'       ): t )<   t-_ e_- ,\K,.b                                                        8°
t o  /\X~~~~~tSn~ gkhb.
X   )         1             °I  bO  X0~~~~~~~     ~   ~~~~~~~~~~o _r2o00  30, 
TlR h, ed  h - sho,n nN ..smp d~ -1o  A            <KLOMETERSI>t
98-                 100°               1 02°               104-Iq° 






IBRD 12541
5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
C :
2~~~~~~~~~~  ,i
2LUR    
r



I BRD 10401 R
DEMOCRAT IC
SA* DAOPROPLC S                         U-THON    (  100-00                          DECEMBER1 1976;
F  ',;   n     t,-,^                 V' 
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h Nong: t>
A N              ~~~~~~~~~~14'00-
Ban     E   R   P   A    Rt     AThums            Ben
- T A$ GESA MU
p      R 
a  Gulf of ThaK/and
CHAO      PHYA      IRRIGATION          t                     ,/    <       River or Canals
IMPROVEMENT            PROJECT       II                             3      ............... -   Ir lrigatigon Canals, Stage I
l  \ t 5  ,@- .:    -      l~~~~~~rrigation Canals, Stage f
MAE KLONG IRRIGATION AREA                                          - 1t   Primary Highways
Khoa  eoll \  Secondary Highways
Mdp Showing the Stage I                                                                3BanLoem  ---  Railways
Irrigation System and Proposed                                  - ---- Internatianal Boundaries
Systems for the Stage II Areas              \             \
a    PETCHABURI           /I o     °hil  2
THAILAND\                          KILOMETERS
CHAO~~T7ebvlne l/r s 1i e PHYA   IR IGATI                               River orJ Canals
The30   b,,eRl.,,,JW  ,I,,,f esl F: W,h,  'rnp A.  7 v's0
9930'  lterMl}a-knd 11E/ilis             /                         Da  g    Canal



