Document of
The World Bank                    FILEa ED'Pay
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1412a-TH
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT II
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
June 1, 1977
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc2 of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Baht
US$1.00           =    B 20.4
B 1.00            =    US$0.049
US$1 million            B 20.4 million
B 1 million       =    US$49,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                              3.28 feet
2! kilometer (km)                  =    0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                          2.47 acres
=    6.25 rai
1 million cubic meters (M cu m)    =    810 acre-feet
1 cubic meter per second (cu m/s) =    35.3 cubic feet per second
1 ton                                    1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,205 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)                    =    1,340 horsepower (hp)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC        -    Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
cif         -    Cost, insurance and freight
COLC        -    Central Office of Land Consolidation
DAE         -    Department of Agricultural Extension
DG          -    Director-General
EGAT        -    Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
fob         -    Free on board
4-H Club    -    Young Farmers' Club
HYV         -    High-Yielding Variety
LS          -    Lump Sum
MOAC        -    Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
O&M         -    Operation and Maintenance
RID         -    Royal Irrigation Department
USAID       -    United States Agency for International Development
NOTATION
-- Less than half the smallest unit shown
- Nil or negligible
... Not available separately but included in total
Not available
Not applicable
e Mission estimate
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
FISCAL YEAR
October 1   -   September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
This report is based on the findings of two preappraisal missions and an
appraisal mission. The personnel involved included: Messrs. P.W. Whitford,
C.M.F. Bruce, Y. Matoba and Mrs. Y. Kimaro (Bank), and Messrs. N. Ahmed,
F.D. Gorrez Jr., R.C.Y. Ng, P. Judd and J.W. Robins (Consultants).
Messrs. R.L.P. Harris, E.B. Boerema and J.G. Stemp and Ms. N.K. Boetker
also contributed to the preparation of the report.
This document hus a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients or'y in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WI.Vorld Dank authorinztion.






THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT II
Staff Project Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY                                              i   xii
1.  PROJECT BACKGROUND .1.................... . .
Introduction ................ .....                              1
The Agricultural Sector  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .   ...   1
Role of Irrigation in Agricultural Development . . . . . . . . 3
Irrigation Development in the Central Plain  . . . . . . . . . 3
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project I (Credit 379-TH) . . 6
Standards of On-Farm Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Legal Basis for On-Farm Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Project Formulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.  THE PROJECT AREA ....................... . 10
Climate  .    .  .  .    .    .  .  .    .    .  .  .    .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  10
Soils, Topography and Drainage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Farm Size and Land Tenure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Subproject Selection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Agricultural Conditions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Transport and Marketing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Fisheries Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
3.  PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Part A (Rehabilitation and On-Farm Development)  . . . . . . . 19
Part B (Rehabilitation)  .....  .  .  .  ..   ......  .  .   . 21
Part C (Mae Klong Development) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Part D (Consultant Services) ....  .  .  .   ........  .   . 25
Water Supply, Demand and Quality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Status of Surveys and Design ....  .  .  .   ........  .   . 26
Implementation Schedule  .....  .  .  .  .   .......  .  .   . 27
Construction Methods ......  .  ..  .   ..........   . 27
Cost  Estimates   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Disbursements  .......  ..  ...   ...........   . 34
Accounts and Audits  ......  .  ..  .   ........  .  .  . 34
Environmental Effects  .....  ..  .  .   ........  ..   . 36
4.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION  ......  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  .   . 37
Project Management ......  ..  ..  .   .........  .  . 37
Project Coordination .....  ..  ..  .   .........  .  . 38
Acceleration of Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Agricultural Supporting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Operation and Maintenance  .....  .  .  .   .......  .  .   . 42
Monitoring and Evaluation .       .      ................ . 43



-2-
Page No.
5.  CROPPING PATTERNS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Future Cropping Pattern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Future Crop Yields  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Cropping Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Cultural Practices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Crop Production .........  ...  ....  ...  ....   .  50
6.  MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES .....  ..  .  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..   .  52
Market Prospects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Prices  .....................  ......  .  52
7.  CROP AND FARM BUDGETS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
8.  RENT AND COST RECOVERY  ......  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  .   .  63
Introduction  ..........  ....  .....  ....  .  .  63
Ability to Pay  .........  ...  ....  ...  ...  .  .  63
Proposed Project Charges  .....  ..  .  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..   .  65
Rent and Cost Recovery Indices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Fiscal Impact ..........  ....  .....  ....  .  .  67
Willingness to Pay  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
9.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Part A - Rehabilitation and On-Farm Development . . . . . . . . 68
Parts B and C - Rehabilitation and Service Roads  . . . . . . . 75
Risks .........  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ....   .  76
Overall Rate of Return  ......  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  .  .  76
10.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
ANNEX: ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
LIST OF TABLES
Table No.
2.1  Farm Size Distribution for Part A of the Project  . . . . . . . . 13
2.2  Subproject Data for Part A of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
3.1 List of Rehabilitation Works (Part A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
3.2  List of Rehabilitation Works (Part B) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
3.3  Equipment List (Summarized) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
3.4  Cost Estimates (Summarized) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
3.5  Estimated Schedule of Expenditures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
3.6  Proposed Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan . . . . . . . . . 35
3.7  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
5.1  Area Cropping Patterns  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
5.2  Crop Yields:  Present, Future With and Without Project  . . . . . 47
5.3  Crop Production (Part A). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
6.1  Price Structure of Rice/Paddy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
6.2  Breakdown of Ex-Mill Value of Paddy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54



-3-
Page No.
6.3  Farm Gate Prices of Inputs and Outputs . . . . . . . . . .  55
7.1  Crop Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  58
7.2  Financial Crop Budgets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  59
7.3  Monthly Farm Labor Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  60
7.4  Farm Budgets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  61
7.5  Cash Flow Projection for 2.3 ha Farm . . . . . . . . . . .  62
8.1  Rent and Cost Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  64
9.1  Net Value of Production at Full Development - Total Part A  69
9.2  A Summary List of National Parameters. . . . . . . . . . .  70
9.3  Marginal Product of Labor at Domestic Prices . . . . . . .  72
9.4  Economic Costs and Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  74
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure No.
3.1  Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
5.1  Area Cropping Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  49
9.1  Marginal Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor  . . . . . . . . .77
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 12540 - Project Location
IBRD 12541 - Northern Chao Phya Area
IBRD 10401R - Mae Klong Irrigation Area






THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT II
Staff Project Report
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
The Agricultural Sector
1.        The agricultural sector in Thailand accounts for 37% of GNP and
employs 78% of the labor force. Agricultural commodities have accounted for
50% to 60% of total exports in recent years. Thailand is one of the world's
largest rice exporters. The growth rate in agricultural production over the
past five years has been 3.7%, compared to a 6.2% growth rate for the economy
as a whole. However, allowing for relative price changes and population
growth, the real per capita income of the rural population rose nearly 35% over
the past four years.
2.        Since the mid-1960s, the growth in agricultural production has
come both from expansion of the cultivated area and improvement in yields.
Rice continues to be the principal crop, accounting for 63% of cultivated area
and about 30% of production value. In the last five years, rice production
grew at only 2.2% p.a., the lowest growth rate of any major crop (except
kenaf); almost all this growth came from expansion of the area harvested,
while average yields remained virtually stagnant.  Fertilizer consumption in
Thailand remains among the lowest in Asia. The area planted to high-yielding
dry season rice has recently expanded, but the second crop still accounts
for only 6% of total production.
3.        The principal sector issues are:
(a) Productivity. As the supply of uncultivated land is now virtually
exhausted, further increases in food and other agricultural production
will have to come from increases in cropping intensity and yield,
requiring large capital investments and strengthened agricultural
supporting services.
(b) Income Distribution. Large inequities of income exist between urban
and rural areas, between regions and, to a lesser extent, within rural
communities.
(c)  Pricing Policy.  Traditionally, Government policy in Thailand has
been to keep prices to the producer low (through export taxes) and
to tolerate high input prices, leading to a continuation of an
"extensive" form of agriculture, with a low use of inputs and low
yields. Even though this policy has been significantly changed in
the past three years (for example, a fertilizer monopoly has been
abolished), distortions still exist.
(d) Environmental Degradation. Increasing population pressure on the
land is leading to the destruction of over 1% of Thailand's forest
resources each year. The land being opened up is characterized by
shallow soils and steep slopes and continuing problems of soil
erosion and low returns from agriculture may be expected.



- ii -
(e) Organization. Responsibility for agricultural development is
fragmented between many agencies and there are often severe problems
of coordination within and between these agencies.
(f) Agricultural Credit. Institutional credit to the sector is not
adequate to the needs; commercial banks are reluctant to lend directly
(g)  Land Tenancy.  In recent years, land tenancy has increased substan-
tially in certain areas, and there are indications that the average
farm size is declining.
4.        To tackle these problems, the Government intends to accelerate
implementation and planning of agricultural development projects in general
and irrigation projects in particular. Development of the irrigation subsector
plays a major role in the Government's efforts. Irrigation typically leads to
large increases in productivity and farm incomes and can also serve income
distribution goals, provided investment is directed at lower income groups
and regions and is accompanied by the introduction of more equitable taxation
and cost recovery policies. Intensification of production on existing culti-
vated land would also ease encroachment into forest areas.
The Irrigation Subsector
5.        Most of the irrigable areas in Thailand are in the flood plains of
the major rivers where a combination of heavy rainfall and flooding precludes
the cultivation of crops other than paddy in the wet season. In the Chao Phya
Plain, heavy soils predominate and paddy is the preferred crop in the dry
season as well. The situation is similar in the coastal plains of the south.
Dry season cropping is more diversified on the alluvial soils of the north,
and in the small areas so far developed for irrigation in the northeast.
6.        In the wet season, the harvested area of rice averages about 7.7 mil-
lion ha of which the irrigated areas account for some 1.8 million ha. Close
to 0.4 million ha of rice is irrigated in the dry season. Since virtually all
land suitable for rice is now cultivated in the wet season, any major gains
in rice production will have to come from higher yields in both rainfed
and irrigated areas, and increases in the area cropped in the dry season.
7.        To meet domestic demand and maintain Thailand's share of the
world's export market, production would have to increase from 15.1 million
tons of paddy in 1976 to 22.7 million tons in 1990. Over the same period,
assuming a yield increase of 20% in rainfed areas, irrigated paddy production
would have to more than double from 5.5 million to 12 million tons.
8.        The Bank has been associated with the irrigation subsector in
Thailand since 1950 (Loan 36-TH). In recent years, it has become apparent
that the pace of the subsector's development would not accelerate without
improvements in its organizational efficiency. In the Phitsanulok Project
(Loan 1149-TH), it was agreed with the Government and the Royal Irrigation
Department (RID) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC) that



- iii -
RID's administration, organization and procedures should be reviewed and
where necessary revised to ensure efficient implementation of future programs.
As a preliminary step the Government requested a Bank mission to review
Thailand's irrigation program and RID's organization to help prepare terms of
reference for an organization study (to be financed under Loan 1149-TH). RID
is now selecting consultants and is appointing a counterpart team to monitor
and advise the consultants.
9.        The principle underlying the recommendations of the Bank mission
on RID's organization is that all aspects of an irrigation project (from
planning, design and survey through the construction of main and tertiary
distribution systems, service and farm roads) are integral parts of a whole
and should be under the direct control of a single project manager. Service
divisions should be available to provide necessary technical support, but the
present fragmentation of project activities along functional lines leads to
serious coordination problems and an unwillingness of any individual to accept
overall responsibility. While RID and its consultants conduct the administra-
tion and organization study, this principle of responsibility along project
lines should be adopted as an interim solution. This modest change would begin
to define more clearly the authority, responsibility and accountability for
better coordination of the project activities.
10.       Since its formation in 1904, RID has constructed irrigation, flood
control and navigation systems which benefit nearly two million ha. Through
the 1930s, RID concentrated on the construction of a network of navigation/
drainage canals and control structures over more than 500,000 ha in the South-
ern Chao Phya Plain. In 1950, following the wartime slowdown in construction,
RID began a program to develop gravity irrigation systems covering 600,000 ha
in the Northern Chao Phya which continued through the 1960s. At the same time
navigation/drainage systems of the Southern Chao Phya were extended to nearly
200,000 ha in the adjacent Bang Pakong Basin. The Bank helped finance part of
this development through Loans 36-TH (which helped finance construction of the
Chai Nat diversion dam, associated headworks and main canals in the Northern
Chao Phya area) and 328-TH (which helped finance the construction of a tertiary
distribution system in the Chao Phya area). Also, in parallel with the develop-
ment of the Northern Chao Phya, the Bhumiphol Dam (Loan 175-TH) was completed
in 1964. This first step in controlling the flow of the Chao Phya's northern
tributaries and providing some dry season storage was followed by the Sirikit Dam
(Loan 514-TH), completed in 1972. Over the past 20 years, RID has also turned
its attention to other river basins and regions. A 160,000 ha first-stage
gravity irrigation system (financed under Loan 394-TH) was constructed in the
Mae Klong Basin and a 50,000 ha scheme in the Petchaburi basin (Loan 327-TH).
RID has also built some large reservoirs and main canals in the northeast and
numerous small schemes in the north, northeast and south.
11.       In developing the Chao Phya Plain, RID's aim was to modify the
natural flood regime over large tracts of land. In the Southern Chao Phya,
which is subject to deep and prolonged flooding, the canals were designed
as flood-relief channels to spread the flood waters more evenly and to promote
drainage at the end of the flood season. These canals also opened large areas



- iv -
of uncultivated land. In the Northern Chao Phya, drought is more of a con-
straint to rice production than floods, and therefore the diversion dams and
irrigation canals were designed to provide semicontrolled inundation.
12.      This approach, which is appropriate to the vast areas of flat lands
in the Chao Phya Plain, was also applied in other regions and basins with
different topography. The results of this approach were generally unsuccessful
in those areas where flood irrigation is precluded by the uneven terrain, and
much higher standards of mapping and design required under such conditions
have been neglected. These problems are particularly acute in the Northeast
Region and the Mae Klong Basin.
13.       Furthermore, the circumstances that favored extensive agricultural
techniques have now changed. Farms are becoming smaller because of population
pressure, farmers are using more intensive farming methods, and current and
projected prices give the incentives for farmers to take advantage of higher
standards of on-farm development. Thus, further exploitation of Thailand's
irrigation potential will require much more emphasis on a reliable and
timely delivery of water to the fields. This will involve upgrading of
virtually all existing irrigation systems, incorporating higher standards of
water control in these and in new systems.
14.       The Bank mission (see paragraph 28) discussed with the Government an
indicative irrigation development program to be carried out in the period
1977-90 which comprises improvement of existing systems (710,000 ha), extension
of existing systems (290,000 ha), and new projects (315,000 ha). A major
feature of the program is the widespread introduction of higher standards of
tertiary or on-farm development, that is, the construction of ditches, drains
and farm roads needed to achieve the timely and reliable supply of water to
farmers' fields. To be most effective, on-farm development should be carried
out along with improvement or new construction of main systems, and coordinated
with system operation and maintenance. On-farm development can take various
forms ranging from simple tertiary ditches to intensive development, which is
designed to serve each farm with ditches, drains and roads and may require
land leveling and boundary realignment.
15.       A rough estimate of the construction cost of the indicative program,
in 1976 prices, is $1,400 million, to which should be added about $150 million
for initiation of new projects. Annual expenditures would average $110 million
through 1990. Annual operation and maintenance (at $10-15/ha) would average
about $30 million. Allowing for RID overhead and expenditures on other RID
activities, such as navigation works and channel improvement, RID's annual
budgetary requirement would be around $150 million, which is roughly in line
with the budget appropriations to RID in recent years. However, if these invest-
ments are to achieve the 1990 production targets, the planning, design and imple-
mentation of projects would have to be improved. This, in turn, would require
improvements in RID's organization and management (see paragraphs 28 and 29).
16.       A start has been made on some major elements of this program.
Projects to improve existing systems in the Northern Chao Phya Plain
(Credit 379-TH) and Northeast Region (Credit 461-TH) are under way. Major
works under the Phitsanulok Project (Loan 1149-TH) will begin soon.



- v -
17.       The first Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit 379-TH)
covering 17,000 ha was designed to meet the requirements necessary to overcome
some of the major constraints of the existing irrigation network and agricul-
tural supporting services in the area. Close monitoring of results to date
has confirmed that a rapid increase in cropping intensity, yields and water
efficiency and control can be obtained on moderately large areas at reasonable
cost following the rehabilitation of main and secondary irrigation and
drainage systems and the construction of on-farm works. Progress in imple-
menting stage one has been generally satisfactory. Targets were fully
achieved in the first two years of construction but administrative problems
in 1976 resulted in a reduction in that year's target. The overall degree of
completion is expected to be about 90% by the end of July 1977, the original
completion date for the project. The remaining works will be completed early
in 1978. Under this project, a nucleus of trained staff has been developed
and procedures established for the planning, design and execution of on-farm
works, including the use of contractors. Based on these achievements, the
Government has proposed to the Bank a project to expand this mode of develop-
ment to a larger area in the Northern Chao Phya Plain.
18.       The existing irrigation system in the Mae Klong area has been
designed for supplementary irrigation of rice in the wet season. At present a
large area is, however, under rainfed sugarcane. While clearly some form of
on-farm development will be required, it would be unwise to go ahead with the
large-scale implementation of systems developed elsewhere, as the topographic
conditions and cropping patterns of the Mae Klong area may require different
solutions. For this reason the Government has proposed to the Bank a two year
program of pilot projects. Since there are no usable topographic maps and
very few service roads in the Mae Klong area, provision for mapping and road
construction is also proposed.
Project Description
19.       The proposed project would benefit directly more than 130,000 farm
families, i.e., more than three quarters of a million people. The project
would improve existing irrigation facilities on 201,000 ha in the Northern Chao
Phya. The construction of three pilot projects and service roads in the Mae
Klong area, together with mapping and feasibility studies in both Northern Chao
Phya and Mae Klong would provide a basis for further development of irrigation
in both project areas. The main components of the proposed project are:
Part A.   Rehabilitation and on-farm development works consisting of ditches,
drains and roads to serve individual farms, boundary realignment and land
leveling, which together would improve water control and farm access for a net
cultivable area of about 63,000 ha in the Northern Chao Phya Plain. These
works are expected to cost about $140/ha (rehabilitation) and $300-600/ha
(on-farm development) for a total of $47 million./1
Part B. Rehabilitation works such as canal reshaping, additional structures
and bridges, improvement of service roads and drains, for more efficient water
control over 138,000 ha (at a cost of $80/ha), as well as topographic mapping
for about 300,000 ha of the Northern Chao Phya Plain. The total cost is
expected to be $14 million./I
/1 Without contingencies.



- vi -
Part C.   Topographic and cadastral mapping of about 50,000 ha, construction
of three pilot projects (to demonstrate on-farm development techniques) and
360 km of service roads and associated works in the Mae Klong irrigation area
($13 million)./l
Part D.   Consultant services for (a) implementing the above works, (b) prepar-
ing feasibility studies for (i) a third stage project in the Chao Phya Plain
and (ii) a second stage project in the Mae Klong area, and (c) studies of
agricultural supporting services ($3 million)./l
Provision would also be made in the proposed project for improvements in
operation and maintenance, a fisheries development program, and project
monitoring and evaluation.
Project Cost and Financing
20.       The total project cost is estimated at $112 million with a foreign
exchange component of $55 million (49%). Physical contingencies of 15% have
been added to the cost of rehabilitation and road works under Part C of
the project. A contingency of 10% has been added to the cost of on-farm
development, mapping and miscellaneous works. Contingencies amounting to 33%
of the baseline costs have also been provided to cover expected price increases
over the project implementation period. The foreign exchange compenent has
been estimated on the assumption that all civil works contracts would be won
by local contractors and all equipment contracts by foreign suppliers. Local
expenditures would be met through annual government budgetary allocations to
RID and the other agencies responsible for carrying out the project. The
proposed $55 million Bank loan would finance the estimated foreign exchange
component of the project.
21.       The proposed loan includes an amount of $1.2 million to finance the
foreign exchange costs of the pilot projects and the feasibility study in the
Mae Klong area. The Governments of Japan and Thailand, however, are discussing
the possibility of Japan providing a grant to finance the above costs. Should
this financing become available, the amount provided in the proposed loan for
the.pilot projects and the feasibility study would be reallocated to finance
other project-related activities to be agreed with the Bank.
Implementation Period
22.       The implementation period for the proposed project is expected
to be five years. However, the Government has informed the Bank that as part
of its policy to accelerate implementation of agricultural projects (see
paragraph 24), it intends to implement the proposed project in four years.
There are no technical or engineering obstacles which should prevent RID
from achieving this goal and the Government intends to remove existing organ-
izational and procedural bottlenecks which are causing delays in project
implementation. In particular the Government proposes to: (a) appoint,
in a timely manner, able project directors and managers to whom ample authority
would be delegated; (b) provide these directors and managers with full-time
/1 Without contingencies.



- vii -
support staff with proper technical and management skills; (c) streamline
procedures for procurement and employment of consultants; (d) eliminate
progressively execution of works by force account (see paragraph 50).
Project Organization
23.       The proposed project organization is designed to help the Government
accelerate project implementation. The proposed organization is based upon
the principle of responsibility along project lines (see paragraph 29) and
may be modified following the review of RID's organization, administration
and procedures (see paragraph 28).
24.       RID would have direct responsibility for project implementation.
Within RID, responsibility for all the rehabilitation and on-farm development
works in the Northern Chao Phya Plain would rest with the Deputy Director-
General (Operation and Maintenance) who would act as Project Director. A
senior RID engineer, who has been appointed Project Manager after consultation
with the Bank, would be responsible for day-to-day activities (Section 3.07(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement). A Project Director (to be appointed after
consultation with the Bank) would have ultimate responsibility for all RID's
activities in the Mae Klong area, which are loosely coordinated at present. A
Project Manager (also to be appointed after consultation with the Bank) would
be designated to be directly in charge of all irrigation, drainage and road
construction, and on-farm development in the Mae Klong area (Section 3.07(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
25.       Several other departments within the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MOAC) would also have a role in implementing Part A of the
project. As under the first Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project, the
Central Office of Land Consolidation would prepare Royal Decrees to permit land
consolidation and would further assist RID with on-farm development. These
decrees would be issued in advance of the construction season in areas to be
incorporated under the project (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Land Department of the Ministry of the Interior would be responsible for
cadastral surveys and issuance of title deeds in all parts of the project area
subject to on-farm development. The Land Development Department of MOAC would
be responsible for detailed land classification surveys in advance of the
design work for on-farm development.
26.       The Deputy Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture would act as
Project Coordinator with responsibility for coordinating all project activities.
To facilitate project execution and speed up cumbersome procurement procedures,
a Project Coordination Committee would be established (as a condition of effect-
iveness of the proposed loan) under the chairmanship of the Under-Secretary
of Agriculture to be in charge of decisions on procurement, budgeting, staffing
and the appointment of consultants (Sections 3.06 and 5.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). This Committee would appoint a Procurement Subcommittee in charge
of approving the bidding documents and bid evaluation. RID would also attempt
to standardize bidding documents for the proposed project to the extent possible.
Consultants
27.       Consultants would be engaged to assist in the implementation of the
rehabilitation and on-farm development works in the Northern Chao Phya area



- viii -
(Parts A and B of the project) and to undertake a feasibility study for a
third stage of development. About 230 man-months of assistance are expected
to be required. Consultants would also be engaged to assist in the implementa-
tion of the works in the Mae Klong area (Part C of the project) and to under-
take a feasibility study for a second stage of development in the area; an
additional 40 man-months of assistance are expected to be required. Cost
estimates for the consultants' services are based on recent contracts concluded
with international consulting firms in Thailand and countries in the area.
These costs average $7,100 per man-month, including all overheads. In contrast
with the first stage Project, these consultants would take little part in the
day-to-day work of design and construction but would concentrate on broader
aspects such as planning, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and improve-
ments to Operation and Maintenance (O&M).
Procurement
28.       Contracts for roads and associated works in the Mae Klong area
($7.0 million) /1 and the supply of vehicles and equipment ($15.7 million),/1
would be procured following international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. A preferential margin of 15%, or the prevailing customs
duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of
bids. Off-the-shelf items costing less than $10,000 each and limited to a
total of $300,000, would be purchased through normal government procurement
procedures, which ensure adequate competition.
29.       The civil works under Parts A and B of the proposed project consist
mainly of rehabilitation works ($18.5 million)/1 and on-farm development works
($32.5 million)./l These works either consist of many small, scattered items
or need to be planned and executed on short notice. They would be undertaken
largely by force account (Schedule 4(D) of the draft Loan Agreement). However,
RID is also building up its capability for preparing bid documents and super-
vising contractors for this kind of work and at least 35% of the on-farm
works will be contracted. Works of this nature cannot be grouped into packages
large enough to interest international contractors and thus locally advertized
bidding procedures (in which foreign firms will be eligible to participate)
will be applicable (Schedule 4(B) (1) and (2) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
30.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the c.i.f.
cost of directly imported equipment, or the ex-factory price net of taxes for
equipment manufactured locally, and at a rate of 65% of total costs for
imported equipment procured locally. For consultants' services and overseas
training, disbursements would equal 100% of total costs. Disbursements for
civil works and mapping would be on a percentage basis. Disbursements for
force account works would be made against certified statements of completed
work. Appointment of a Project Director, a Project Manager and consultants for
the Mae Klong component (see paragraph 45) would be conditions of disbursement
for expenditures related to this component (Schedule 1(4)(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
/1 Without contingencies.



- ix -
Agricultural Supporting Services
31.       The Government has recently laid much stress on the need to integrate
irrigation development with agricultural supporting services. The existing
fertilizer supply network in Thailand has expanded adequately to meet overall
demand and is expected to continue to expand in the project area to meet the
increased needs generated by the project. Production credit would be available
from the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) and/or
cooperative societies which are rapidly expanding their activities in the
project areas. The existing research stations in the project areas are
providing a sound technological base for the project; improved strains of
rice and other major crops are being produced periodically and fertilizer
response and control measures for the major pests are well understood.
Extension services, which are provided by the Department of Agricultural
Extension (DAE), will be expanded and made more effective under the National
Extension Project (Loan 1393-TH) which will begin to cover the Chao Phya and
part of the Mae Klong project areas in 1978 and 1979. Also, improved seed
would be provided through the DAE. DAE would expand its seed production and
distribution program to meet the needs of the project (Section 3.10 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
32.       Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the main irrigation and drainage
systems and service roads would be the responsibility of RID. O&M standards
are inadequate in the project area at present, due primarily to insufficient
funding, and would be improved under the project. The annual cost of adequate
O&M has been tentatively estimated at $12/ha (early 1977 prices). RID would
operate and maintain all the irrigation and drainage systems and service roads
under its jurisdiction in the Chao Phya area in accordance with sound engineer-
ing standards (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). Operation and
maintenance of on-farm works, i.e. ditches, drains and roads below the farm
turnout, would be the responsibility of the farmers in each service unit who
will have the choice of either executing these works directly or using hired
labor. RID would assist in the establishment of farmers' groups in each
service area. The cost is tentatively estimated to range from $2 to $4/ha/yr.
Cost Recovery
33.       To date no water charges have been levied on irrigation schemes
operated by RID. The Government felt that the taxes on rice production and
export (which depressed the price received by farmers) were high enough to
recover indirectly the public investments in irrigation. When these taxes
began to be lowered, the Government became aware of the need to recover
directly part of the costs. Under the first Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement
Project, it was agreed that MOAC would carry out a cost recovery study and
start collecting water charges in that project area. Farmers in the Part A
area would be required to pay 50% of the investment cost of on-farm develop-
ment works over 15 years (including a two-year grace period) beginning on the
completion of these works, at an interest rate of 12%. Before December 31,
1977, the Government would make arrangements acceptable to the Bank for the
collection of these amounts by BAAC or other institutions acceptable to the
Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). A general irrigation



charge, to apply eventually to all irrigated areas in Thailand, would also be
introduced to cover O&M costs. The Government has agreed that prior to
July 31, 1978, it would introduce an annual charge of not less than the average
cost of operating and maintaining the irrigation and drainage works of the
Bank financed projects in the Northern Chao Phya area, including on-farm
works, and would promptly collect or cause to be collected such charges from
beneficiaries (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
34.       In terms of present discounted values, the proposed charges would
recover 42% of the total capital and recurrent public sector expenditures on
Part A of the project, assuming a 5% rate of inflation. O&M charges will
reflect actual costs. If all taxes (including the taxes on rice production at
the current level) paid by beneficiaries of Part A are also considered, the
Government would more than recover the cost of constructing, operating and
maintaining the project works.
Monitoring and Evaluation
35.       The Land Policy Division of the Land Development Department of
MOAC would be responsible for monitoring the changes resulting from the
project on a seasonal basis. Evaluation of the performance of the agencies
responsible for construction and supporting services would be carried out by
the agencies themselves. Evaluation of the extent to which the project is
meeting its objectives or the priority of projects of this kind in Thailand's
agricultural development would be carried out from time to time by the Division
of Agricultural Economics of MOAC.
Environmental Effects
36.       Minimal changes in environmental conditions are anticipated as a
result of the project. Improved drainage should reduce the hazards of water-
borne diseases. Fish production may be adversely affected by better control
of irrigation water and the increased use of chemical pesticides. To counter-
act this tendency, a program of fisheries development, based on private
fishponds, has been included in the project.
Benefits and Risks
37.       About 24,400 farm families, or a total of 137,000 persons live in
the area of Part A of the proposed project. The average farm size is 2.3 ha.
The degree of tenancy varies from 10% to 37%. These farms presently have an
average income of about $800 p.a.; after the project this income should
increase to about $1,700 p.a. In addition, about 2,000 families of landless
laborers would benefit directly from increased production and employment
opportunities. The project area is currently characterized by high seasonal
unemployment. With the project at full development, the incremental labor
requirement would be about 4.3 million man-days or some 15,000 full-time
agricultural jobs. Most of the additional labor would be needed in the dry
season when employment would otherwise be lowest. While no recent surveys
have been made in the areas to benefit from Part B of the project, it is
reasonable to assume that farm sizes and tenancy patterns are similar to those
described above. The gross area is 138,000 ha; assuming an average farm size
of about 2.5 ha, about 50,000 families would benefit from the project. The



- xi -
average farm size in the 160,000 ha area of Part C is about 3.0 ha. Tenancy
varies from 20% to 40% and may be increasing. The type of works under Part C
are so varied in nature and intensity that it is impossible to estimate the
number of beneficiaries. However, it is reasonable to assume that about half
of the 55,000 farm families living in the area would benefit directly from the
improved facilities.
38.       Part A of the project would increase yields and cropping intensity
on about 63,000 ha, and would take advantage of substantial sunk costs from
investments over the past 25 years in diversion and storage dams and the main
water distribution and drainage system.  The economic rate of return for Part A
(which accounts for 65% of total project costs) is estimated to be 39%.
Although this rate is high, it is realistic for this type of investment which
provides (at a relatively low cost of $835 per ha and $2,160 per beneficiary
family) an advanced stage of development which would allow farmers to benefit
from substantial past investments in water control facilities. The high rate
of return also indicates the high priority which should be given to this type
of investment in Thailand.
39.       The estimated income distribution effects of Part A of the proposed
project are encouraging. Farm budget estimates indicate that (a) 25-30% of
the farmers in the project area have a household income at about the absolute
poverty level,/l while the regional average of households at a comparable
income level is 15-20%; and (b) 70-75% of the farmers in the project area have
a household income level at or below the level of the poorest 40% of the
region. The average regional household income level is of the same order of
magnitude as the national average. Although income distribution data in
Thailand are subject to wide interpretation, it is nevertheless significant
that the concentration of the farm population around critical income levels is
higher in the area of Part A of the project than elsewhere in the region
and in the country.
40.       As the rehabilitation works to be constructed under Part B of the
project (which accounts for 18% of total project costs) are varied in character,
it would be difficult to establish a direct relationship betweell costs and
benefits. The following analysis should therefore be treated as approximate.
The proposed rehabilitation works would cost about $83/ha and would lead to
an increase in paddy yields of about 10% (230 kg/ha), giving an economic rate
of return of 15%. For Part C (which accounts for 17% of total project costs),
the pilot projects for on-farm development would be expected to have about
the same rate of return as similar works under Part A, in addition to their
applied research value. The service roads in the Mae Klong area should permit
more efficient operation and maintenance of the irrigation system, especially
after dry season water becomes available in 1979. Improved service roads
should lead to an increase in the operational efficiency of the irrigation
system of at least 1%. This corresponds to an increase in the dry-season
cropped area of about 3,000 ha; giving an economic rate of return of at least
/1 Absolute poverty income level is defined as the level of income which is
necessary to purchase (a) a nutritionally adequate, typical subsistence
diet and (b) minimum nonfood requirements. This level is estimated at
about $435 p.a. per household in the region, and $445 p.a. per household
country-wide.



- xii -
15%. Additional benefits of even greater magnitude would result from the
reduction in transport costs for the region's produce and the likely increase
in the sugar extraction rate, but few data are available to quantify these.
41.       The rate of return of the project as a whole is estimated at 31%.
42.       There are no unusual risks associated with this project.  The risks
normally associated with irrigation projects (i.e., (a) lower than expected
yields and (b) smaller than expected area used for double cropping) have been
taken into account in estimating project benefits.



THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT II
Staff Project Report
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of the Kingdom of Thailand has requested Bank assis-
tance in financing the second stage of the Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement
Project. The project includes rehabilitation works and on-farm development
over 63,000 ha (Part A) and rehabilitation works only over an additional
138,000 ha (Part B) of the Northern Chao Phya Plain, as well as high-priority
development activities in the Mae Klong area (Part C) and studies for future
projects and for agricultural supporting services (Part D). This would be the
tenth Bank Group operation for promoting irrigated agriculture in Thailand and
the sixth project for improving irrigation in the Chao Phya Plain.
1.02      The project was prepared by the Government, with the assistance of
consultants (Ilaco, Netherlands). The feasibility of Part A of the project
was established in a report dated September 1975 (Reference B-1),l Part B was
devised during the course of appraisal, while Part C is derived from a prefeasi-
bility study dated November 1974 (Reference B-2).
1.03      This report is based on the findings of two preappraisal missions,
which visited Thailand in February and May 1976, and an appraisal mission in
September 1976. The personnel involved included: Messrs. P.W. Whitford,
C.M.F. Bruce, Y. Matoba and Mrs. Y. Kimaro (Bank), and Messrs. N. Ahmed,
F.D. Gorrez Jr., R.C.Y. Ng, P. Judd and J.W. Robins (consultants). Messrs.
R.L.P. Harris , E.B. Boerema and J.G. Stemp and Ms. N.K. Boetker also contri-
buted to the preparation of this report.
The Agricultural Sector
1.04      A detailed review of the agricultural sector in Thailand is given
in the Bank's Agricultural Sector Survey, dated May 1, 1972 (Reference A-2).
More recent statistics are given in recent economic reports and in the
Government's publication "Agricultural Statistics of Thailand: Crop Year
1974/75" (Reference A-3). Major issues related to irrigated agriculture are
discussed in the Irrigation Program Review Report, dated December 1976
(Reference A-5). The major agricultural sector issues are briefly summarized
below.
1.05      The agricultural sector in Thailand accounts for 37% of GNP, an
increase from 31% in 1971, and employs 78% of the labor force. Agricul-
tural commodities have accounted for 50 to 60% of total exports in recent
years. Although Thailand is the world's largest rice exporter, this
commodity represents only 17% of total export value. The growth rate in
/1 References and Working Papers are listed in the Annex and are available
on request.



agricultural production over the past five years has been 3.7%, compared
to a 6.2%"o growth rate for the economy as a whole. However, allowing for
relative price changes and population growth, the real per capita income
of the rural population rose nearly 35% over the past four years.
1.06      Since the mid-1960s, the growth in agricultural production has
come both from expansion of the cultivated area and improvement in yields.
Rice continues to be the principal crop, accounting for 63% of cultivated
area and about 30% of production value. In the last five years, rice pro-
duction grew at only 2.2% per annum, the lowest growth rate of any major
crop (except kenaf). Almost all this growth came from expansion of the
area harvested, while average yields were virtually stagnant. Fertilizer
consumption in Thailand remains among the lowest in Asia. The area of
higher yielding dry season rice production has recently expanded as a result
of the construction of storage reservoirs in the Chao Phya basin, but the
second crop still accounts for only 6% of total production.
1.07      The principal sector issues are:
(i) Productivity - As the supply of uncultivated land is now
virtually used up, further increases in food and other
agricultural production will have to come from increases
in cropping intensity and yield, requiring large capital
investments and strengthened agricultural supporting
services;
(ii)  Income Distribution - Large inequities of income exist
between urban and rural areas, between regions and, to a
lesser extent, within rural communities;
(iii) Pricing Policy - Traditionally, Government policy in Thailand
has been to keep product prices low (through export taxes)
and to tolerate high input prices (for example, for fertili-
zer), leading to a continuation of an "extensive" form of
agriculture, with a low use of inputs and low yields. Even
though this policy has been significantly changed in the
past two years, inequities still exist;
(iv)  Environmental Degradation - Increasing population pres-
sure on the land is leading to the destruction of over
1% of Thailand's forest resources each year. The land
being opened up is characterized by shallow soils and
steep slopes and continuing problems of soil erosion and
low returns from agriculture may be expected; and
(v) Organization - Responsibility for agricultural develop-
ment is fragmented between many agencies and there are
often severe problems of coordination within and between
these agencies.



- 3 -
Other sector issues of a more localized character include land tenancy,
credit and marketing.
Role of Irrigation in Agricultural Development
1.08      Development of new and improved irrigation facilities can clearly
play a major role in overcoming the above problems and ensuring continuing
self-sufficiency in the major foodgrain, rice. Irrigation typically leads to
large increases in productivity and farm incomes and can also serve income
distributional goals, provided investment is directed at lower income groups
and regions and is accompanied by introduction of more equitable taxation and
cost recovery policies. Intensification of production on existing cultivated
lands should ease overexploitation of forest lands. However, accelerating the
pace of irrigation development will depend on improvements in organizational
efficiency, as discussed in the Irrigation Program Review. The Review also
outlines a program of irrigation development needed to satisfy domestic food-
grain requirements and maintain Thailand's position as a major rice exporter. A
major component of the proposed program is improvement of existing irrigation
systems (Reference A-5).
Irrigation Development in the Central Plain
1.09      The Chao Phya River drains an area of 180,000 sq km while a
further 30,000 sq km is drained by the adjacent Mae Klong River (Map 12540).
The northern part of the Chao Phya Basin is drained by four major rivers:
the Ping, Wang, Yom and Nan, which join about 200 km north of Bangkok to
form the Chao Phya. The flat, alluvial part of the basin is known as the
Central Plain. The triangular portion of the Central Plain, with its apex
at Chai Nat and its base along the northern coast of the Gulf of Thailand,
is known as the Chao Phya Plain (Map 12541). Its cultivable area is
1,120,000 ha.
1.10      In the southern part of the Chao Phya Plain (512,000 ha), there
is an extensive system of canals and control works, some dating back to
the 1890s, which serve for drainage and navigation, as well as for irri-
gation by uncontrolled flooding in the wet season or by pumping in the
dry season. The Northern Chao Phya Plain covers 608,000 ha of cultivable
land of which 470,000 ha is above 4.5 m mean sea level and thus is con-
sidered to have potential for intensive gravity irrigation. Apart from
some small pre-existing schemes, major irrigation in the Northern Chao Phya
Plain dates from the construction of the Chai Nat barrage on the main stem
of the Chao Phya, and the associated headworks, main and secondary canal
systems, and partial drainage system built in the 1950s, with assistance
from Loan 36-TH.
1.11      Water for the Northern Chao Phya area is diverted by the Chai
Nat barrage into five major natural or artificial channels: the Makamthao-
Uthong Canal, and the Suphan and Noi Rivers on the west bank; and the
Chai Nat-Ayudhya and Chai Nat-Pasak Canals on the east bank. Headworks on
the rivers or canals serve independent irrigation systems or "projects", of
which there are eight on the west bank and five on the east bank (not
including the areas of partly controlled or uncontrolled irrigation in the
Southern Chao Phya). Each project is headed by a Project Engineer for



- 4 -
operation and maintenance purposes and is divided into two to five
regions, each headed by a watermaster. Each region is further divided
into zones of about 1,500 ha, headed by a zoneman.
1.12      Despite the completion of the main and lateral canal systems
by 1961, field-to-field irrigation over long distances was still required,
only wet season irrigation of rice was possible and yields remained low.
In order to improve these conditions at a low cost per unit area, a system
of tertiary ditches, at about 400 m spacing, together with some drains
and feeder roads and a campaign to have farmers bund their paddy fields
was executed by the "Ditches and Dikes" Unit within the Operation and
Maintenance (0&M) Divison of the Royal Irrigation Department. Between
1963 and 1967, 20,000 km of ditches, covering 800,000 ha, were construc-
ted with assistance from Loan 328-TH. These investments have permitted
a modest increase in wet season yields and an expansion of dry season
cropping.
1.13      The main and lateral canal system has been designed for a water
duty of 0.81 1/s/ha for the canals and 0.91 1/s/ha for the structures.
However, some of the canals are natural watercourses with artificially
raised banks and have large evaporation losses and other operational
problems as a result. Check structures are widely spaced, as the system
was designed only for full flow conditions, and many of the ditches are
not fully useful because of lack of command or other problems. The
design and construction of the main and collector drainage system through-
out the Northern Chao Phya area began at a later stage and is now about
45% complete, many of the drainage lines having been constructed to only
half their ultimate section. As a result of these design inadequacies,
impeded drainage is a major constraint on wet season production, while
lack of water control, because of deteriorated canals, lack of check
structures and ditches which do not function, is the major physical
limitation on dry season cropping.
1.14      Concurrently with the Ditches and Dikes phase of development,
a measure of flood control and dry season reservoir storage, as well as
hydroelectric power, was provided by the Bhumiphol Dam on the Ping River,
the westernmost tributary of the Chao Phya (Mtap 12540). Construction
of the dam, completed in 1964, was assisted by Loan 175-TH. The next
major project was the Sirikit Dam on the Nan River, the easternmost
tributary of the Chao Phya. Construction of the dam, which was partly
financed by Loan 514-TH, began in 1968 and was completed in 1972. The
dry season irrigation potential of the two dams has been estimated at
about 600,000 ha. During the late 1960s, the Bank became seriously con-
cerned at the apparent lag between the provision of irrigation facilities
and reservoir storage and the raising of cropping intensity and yields
by the farmers. Therefore, provision was made under the Sirikit Project,
for a program of studies to analyze the constraints to more intensive
cultivation in the Chao Phya Plain. These studies identified the main
problems as:



-5-
(a) the inability of the existing canal system to deliver water
in the dry season, due to lack of command and insufficient
check structures;
(b) the need for ditches, drains and roads within a tertiary
irrigation command to improve water control and to permit the
more timely cultivation needed for double cropping;
(c) the need for land shaping and leveling to facilitate the
transition from broadcast to transplanted varieties and
from traditional to high-yielding varieties; and
(d) the need for greatly improved extension and other agricul-
tural supporting services.
In 1968, all available information was drawn together by an FAO/UNDP
survey mission and a set of recommendations given in the Gaitskell
Report (Reference A-4).
1.15      In the Mae Klong area (Map 10401R), irrigation facilities have
been completed for the upper part of Stage I, a net cultivable area of
104,000 ha, divided into four subprojects. With the exception of the
first 15 km of the main canal, all main and lateral canals have been
concrete-lined. The lower part of Stage I (a net cultivable area of
60,000 ha) is served by partly controlled tailwater from the canal
system but, as it is deeply flooded in the wet season, the benefits of
this are minimal. Canal construction is continuing on the upper part of
the right bank area and is scheduled to commence this year in the Stage
II left bank area. A significant proportion of these canals are being
concrete-lined.
1.16      The upper part of Stage I has been covered by the Ditches and
Dikes Program but the problems found in the Chao Phya area are compounded
by the more undulating topography and the rapid increase in the area
devoted to sugarcane. The sugarcane growers, who are normally situated on
the higher ground adjacent to the canals, do not want irrigation water (at
least under the present conditions of only partial control) and also have
great difficulty in draining their fields. Rice growers in the lower-lying
areas have difficulty getting water when they need it. Due to a lack of
topographic mapping at the time the system was designed, many of the
canals do not occupy the highest ground and 20 to 40% of the upper part
of Stage I cannot be commanded by gravity. Construction of the main
drainage system is only 30% complete in the upper part of Stage I, a
critical deficiency for sugarcane and upland crops. Few of the canals
have service roads on their embankments, which hampers operations.
Sugarcane growers have developed their own network of private roads but
these are of very low standard and transport of the cane is slow and
expensive and results in a low sugar content.



-6-
Chao PhRJta Irrigation Improvement Project I (Credit 379-TH)
1.17           ral of the studies proposed under the Sirikit Project were
grouped together into the "Northern Chao Phya Study", which was carried
out by Nedeco-DHV-Ilaco (Netherlands) between 1968 and 1970. Their report
(Reference A-6) outlined a phased long-term program of mapping, improve-
ments to the irrigation, drainage and roads systems, and on-farm develop-
ment throughout the Northern Chao Phya Plain. During the same period,
Nedeco/Ilaco was retained under Netherlands bilateral financing to
conduct a feasibility study and implement a pilot project at Chanasutr
for "land consolidation" (on-farm development). The pilot project, which
was implemented in stages, eventually totalled 1,800 ha. A second
pilot project was constructed at Sapphaya, with assistance from Taiwan,
and operated as a multi-purpose cooperative.
1.18      During the identification and appraisal of the Chao Phya Irriga-
tion Improvement Project I in mid-1972, the Government and the Bank attempted
to combine the best features of both pilot projects, namely the pragmatic
approach to the technical design of Chanasutr and the well integrated agricul-
tural supporting services of Sapphaya. In line with the recommendations of the
Northern Chao Phya Study, provision was also made for complementary improve-
ments in the irrigation, drainage and road systems serving the two subproject
areas. The Stage I Project, partly financed by Credit 379-TH, covered 17,000
ha (adjusted to 16,200 ha after final design) of irrigable land and was kept
to a modest size to permit the development of staff expertise in the design
and construction of on-farm works. For this reason, a large technical assist-
ance element was also included, both to assist in project implementation and
to prepare a follow up project of larger dimensions.
1.19      Progress in implementing Stage I has been generally satisfactory.
Targets were fully achieved in the first two years of construction but admini-
strative problems in 1976 resulted in a reduction in that year's target. The
overall degree of completion is expected to be about 90% at the end of July
1977, the original completion date for the project. The remaining works will
be completed early in 1978. Under the project, a nucleus of trained staff has
been developed and procedures established for the planning, design and execution
of on-farm works, including the use of contractors. The agricultural aspects
of the project are also progressing well and prospects are reasonably good
that the appraisal targets for yields will be met and for cropping intensity
exceeded.
1.20      During the course of the last four years, the management of the
project has been gradually modified. At appraisal it was felt that, in
order to obtain full coordination between the various disciplines involved
and to secure staff who were fully committed to the project, it would be
necessary to establish a semi-autonomous project unit within the Office
of the Under Secretary of Agriculture, using staff seconded from the
various technical departments of the Ministry. It was soon realized,
however, that separation of the project from the normal activities of the
Royal Irrigation Department (RID) would not be feasible or desirable and so
RID personnel have remained responsible for all design and construction
activities to date. A small staff in the Ministry, now organized as the



- 7 -
Central Office of Land Consolidation, has been responsible for overall
planning, budgeting, coordination between departments, and for providing
logistic support to the project consultants (Ilaco, Netherlands). This
pattern of project management would be modified only slightly for the
present project.
Standards of On-Farm Development
1.21      On-farm development may be defined as the provision of irrigation
ditches, drains and roads in the service area of an existing turnout on a
lateral canal. This service area averages 70 ha in the Chao Phya Plain. In
the work implemented to date, following the "intensive" model, the ditch to
drain spacing is 150 to 250 m. Earth-surfaced roads, 4 m wide, are located
along each irrigation ditch with a pipe culvert crossing to serve each pair
of farm holdings. Division boxes and other structures in the ditches are
provided as required and each farm holding is served by an asbestos-cement
pipe outlet closed by a wooden board. In order to obtain a rational layout
of the irrigation and drainage systems, realignment of faFm boundaries to a
quasi-rectangular shape is generally required. In about 95% of cases, it is
possible to design this so that each new plot (which averages about 1 ha in
size) overlaps at least 50% with the old, thus minimizing disputes over the
relative value of the land. However, during the realignment process, each
farm loses 3 to 6% of its area, to provide land for the ditches, drains and
roads. If requested by the farmers, plots may be either consolidated or sub-
divided during this procedure. Almost every plot is given direct access to
a ditch, drain and road. Land leveling is generally required following boun-
dary realignment, the average amount of earthmoving being about 300 cu m/ha.
In order to minimize earthmoving, some plots are being leveled in two or more
pieces.
1.22     "Extensive" on-farm development refers to a less dense network
of facilities and does not normally require boundary realignment or a large
amount of leveling. Facilities are located along the farm boundaries and land
acquisition may be necessary, at least for drains and roads. However, recent
experience on the Phitsanulok Project (Loan 1149-TH) indicates that extensive
development without land acquisition may be possible through localized, informal
boundary realignments at least in areas where the plots are large. In the
areas best suited to extensive development, plots are large and tend to have
near-rectangular boundaries. In such areas, ditches and drains are constructed
along the plot boundaries under the provisions of the Dikes and Ditches Act
(para. 1.26). Farm roads are provided at 500 to 1,000 m spacings and the
required land for these is acquired or else a simple boundary realignment
scheme is instituted. Little or no land leveling is required in the flat,
low-lying areas in which this kind of development would apply.
1.23      At appraisal of the Chao Phya I Project, it was envisaged that
about 60% of the project area would be developed to an intensive standard,
similar to the Chanasutr pilot project, while the remaining area, having a
lower agronomic potential, was intended to be developed extensively. In
practice it was found that a clearcut distinction between the two areas
was difficult and there was strong pressure from the farmers for all
areas to be developed intensively. The Bank agreed to this proposal, on



- 8 -
the understanding that the additional costs would be borne by the Government.
However, an area of 900 ha has been found suitable for a less intensive stan-
dard of development. This block, which is part of an old settlement scheme,
has fairly straight rectangular boundaries and experience gained on its design
and construction would be valuable in formulating design standards for extensive
development under the present project. Because of problems in determining
land ownership, construction of on-farm works in the block has been deferred
to 1978.
Legal Basis for On-Farm Development
1.24      As part of the technical assistance provided during the pilot
project phase, Ilaco assisted the Government in drafting an "Agricultural
Land Consolidation Act", which was enacted on September 6, 1974. The
law establishes a Central Land Consolidation Committee, Provincial Land
Consolidation Committees and a Central Office for Land Consolidation
within the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. Areas become subject
to the Act by the promulgation of a Royal Decree which must list all land
holders affected by the scheme and the amounts of land they own. Intensive
on-farm development (called "tand Consolidation" in the Act) is compulsory
if more than half the affected land owners approve it. The Government has
the power to acquire the land of any farmer who is unwillirig to participate
in the scheme. Compensation is paid for land taken for ditches, drains and
roads only in cases where more than 7% of the area of the farm is taken.
The Act gives the Central Committee powers to determine the principles and
procedures of cost recovery from project beneficiaries, with the specifi-
cation that the cost of common facilities shall be repaid in annual install-
mnents of not less than 10% of the capital cost, beginning with the third
year after completion of the work, with a government subsidy of not less
than 10% of the cost. The farmers are responsible for the operation and
maintenance of all common on-farm works.
1.25      As Royal Decrees have only recently been issued for the Stage I
project areas, all work to date has had to be done on the basis of 100%
voluntary agreement of the farmers. While this has led to some problems,
the fact that it was done at all indicates the value placed by the farmers
on this kind of development.
1.26      A legal basis for extensive on-farm development exists in the form
of the Field Dikes and Ditches Act of 1941. This Act requires farmers to
construct bunds around their paddy fields (so as to permit transplanted rice
cultivation) and to dig ditches to irrigate and drain blocks of 8 ha. If the
farmers fail to do so, RID is empowered to construct the works at the expense
of the owners. This Act has been used to permit the construction of tertiary
ditches (virtually all by RID) over the whole of the Northern Chao Phya Plain,
as well as many other irrigated areas in Thailand. However, the repayment
provisions have never been enforced. The Act does not provide for the con-
struction of farm roads.
Project Formulation
1.27       Close monitoring of results to date on the Stage I area has
confirmed that a rapid increase in cropping intensity, water efficiency



-9-
and yields following the rehabilitation of the main and secondary irrigation
and drainage system and the construction of on-farm works could be readily
obtained on large areas at reasonable cost. Based on these achievements the
Government has decided to expand this mode of development to a larger
area in the Northern Chao Phya Plain. The need for such an expansion has
become more urgent in recent years, in light of the slow growth in Thailand's
rice production, the diminishing farm size in the Central Plain, the need to
conserve scarce water supplies in the dry season, and the wish to improve farm
incomes and productivity.
1.28      At the time of appraisal of Chao Phya I, it was envisaged that it
would be followed by a second and possibly a third stage of development, on a
larger scale, and funds were included for the necessary feasibility studies.
The size of the project area, approximately three times the first-stage area,
was selected to be within the implementation capacity of RID at the end of
Stage I. As in the first stage, the recommended project (corresponding to
Part A of the present project) includes rehabilitation works, on-farm develop-
ment works, equipment for force account construction and O&M, and consultant
services for project implementation. Alternative standards for on-farm
development were described, analyzed and costed in the feasibility study.
1.29      While there is little doubt that some form of on-farm development
will eventually be needed over much of the Northern Chao Phya Plain, there
are real administrative and budgetary constraints to the rate at which it
can be implemented. In the meantime, there are various low-cost and easily
administered improvements which are justified alone, as well as being a
prerequisite for future more intensive improvements. Examples are given in
para 3.02. While these are called "Rehabilitation Works", most of them
involve works which were omitted from the original irrigation and drainage
systems. These works, together with the topographic mapping of a large part
of the Northern Chao Phya Plain, which is also a clear prerequisite for future
development, would form Part B of the project.
1.30      Bank involvement in the Mae Klong Project dates from 1964 when
construction of the diversion dam and the Stage I irrigation and drainage
system of 150,000 ha was initiated, with assistance from Loan 394-TH, largely
for the financing of construction equipment. While project construction was
completed, except for the drainage system, for which work is still continuing
(para. 3.11), benefits have been slow to materialize, due to inadequate design
in some cases and a marked shift in the cropping pattern from rice to sugarcane,
which is presently grown under rainfed conditions. A major storage dam (Ban
Chao Nen) is now under construction on the Quae Yai River, a major tributary
of the Mae Klong, with assistance from Loan 977-TH. While justified primarily
as a hydroelectric project, the reservoir, to be completed in 1978, will make
available a dry season water supply for a considerable part of the Mae Klong
irrigation area. Meanwhile, RID is proceeding with the construction of
irrigation and drainage systems in the Stage II area of 230,000 ha. Very
little investment is being made to overcome the problems of Stage I.
1.31      General guidelines for the future development of the Mae Klong
area were given in a "Study of the Development Priorities of the Greater



- 10 -
Meklong Irrigation Project" (Reference B-2). Part C of the project
incorporates several relatively low-cost, high priority activities
identified in that study.
1.32      Part D of the project includes consultant services for project
implementation and feasibility studies for the next phase of development
in the Chao Phya Plain and in the Mae Klong area. None of the works to be
financed under the project were included in any previous Bank-financed
project.
2. THE PROJECT AREA
Climate
2.01      The Northern Chao Phya Plain and the Mae Klong irrigation areas
have similar and fairly homogeneous climatic regimes. The climate throughout
the project areas is tropical and monsoonal. The lowest average monthly
temperature (25 degrees C) is in December and the warm temperatures through-
out the year provide a potential twelve-month growing season. Average
rainfall in the Northern Chao Phya Plain varies from 1,100 to 1,400 mm per
annum in various localities, while in the Mae Klong area the range is 900 mm
to 1,300 mm. Rainfall is highly concentrated in the wet season from May to
October, which accounts for 80% of annual rainfall (85% in the Mae Klong
area). Rainfall varies moderately from year to year and at the beginning
of the wet season tends to be erratic. For example, at Singburi, a 30-day
period with less than 40 mm of rainfall will be encountered at the peak
transplanting season of June-July once in five years on average. Rainfall
becomes more intense in August, reaches its peak in September and October
and falls off rapidly in November. Irrigation is, therefore, needed for all
crops in the dry season and as a supplementary water source for rice in the
wet season.
Soils, Topography and Drainage
2.02      The Northern Chao Phya area has a variety of landforms, soils
and topography, which are to a great extent interdependent, are largely
responsible for the current land use and will also influence agricultural
development in the future. In the southern part of the plain, fine-textured
marine clays have been deposited while, further north, recent river alluvium
is found. On the fringes of the Northern Chao Phya Plain marl (a soil rich in
lime), marl-based clays and low terraces and alluvial fans are found. The
river alluvia, which cover most of the subproject areas, show a distinct
topo-sequential pattern of levees with medium textured soils shading off into
lower depressions with fairly fine textured soil. The semi-recent terraces
adjacent to the main rivers have been aggraded to a height above the normal
river flood level.
2.03      Two topographic patterns prevail in the Northern Chao Phya area.
One is a gradual slope of 15 cm/km towards the south. The other is the
difference in elevation between the river channels with their high natural



- 11 -
levees and the low back-swamp or basin areas further away from the rivers.
The differences become more pronounced adjacent to the larger rivers, espe-
cially towards the north where east-west slopes of up to 1% are observed.
The levee soils generally have good natural drainage but deep flooding
often occurs in the basin areas, due to the inadequate capacity of the
drains and natural channels which drain the area and high tailwater levels
in the rivers into which they flow. Provision of adequate drainage through-
out the Northern Chao Phya is a long-term possibility and is being further
studied under the Chao Phya Basin study, which is being carried out under
the Phitsanulok Project (Loan 1149-TH). For the present project, care has
been taken to avoid areas subject to deep flooding in the selection of
subproject areas and in the selection of appropriate on-farm design standards.
2.04      Land classification has been carried out by RID at a semi-detailed
level for the whole Northern Chao Phya Plain. Lands are classed as to their
suitability for irrigated rice or irrigated upland crop cultivation and soils,
topography and drainage limitations noted. Soils suitable for upland crops
are generally the most elevated levee soils while the basin soils are suitable
only for rice. Some intermediate soils are suited either to rice or upland
crops with appropriate land and drainage development. In the subproject
areas under Part A of the project, 77% of the gross area is suited only to
rice, 13% is equally suited to rice or upland crops, 9% is occupied by
villages, roads, swamps, etc., while less than 1% is best suited for upland
crops. However, the land capability distribution varies considerably between
subproject areas.
2.05      The landforms of the Mae Klong area are similar to those described
above, except that the proportion of semi-recent terraces is much higher,
especially in the upper part of the Stage I area, which is a former delta
of the Mae Klong River. On the other hand, the lower part of Stage I is a
very flat, marine alluvium deposit, subject to deep annual inundation. As
the prevailing slope in the Stage I area is from west to east, floodwaters
from the Mae Klong tend to flow across the project area towards the Nakhon
Chaisri (or Tachin) River. Similar landforms are found in the Stage II
(left bank) area, with sharply defined terraces in the western part and a
flat flood plain in the east. The Stage II (right bank) area consists of
old terraces and some sedentary soils, of medium fertility and suited mainly
for rice. On the left bank, the alluvial flood plains are used mainly for
long-stemmed rice but some more favorable areas have been reclaimed by
bunding and produce high-value crops such as fruits, grapes and vegetables.
The terrace soils are well suited to a wide variety of upland crops, the
predominant crop at present being sugarcane. The intervening basins are
suited to rice or upland crops in better drained areas. For the Mae Klong
project area as a whole, about 30% of the net area is best suited to upland
crops, 60% for rice and the balance is equally well suited to rice or upland
crops. The proportion of land best suited for upland crops decreases from
60% in the western part of the Stage II (left bank) area to zero in the lower
part of Stage I (without heavy investment in land development and bunding).
In general, the potential for diversified cropping is greater in the Mae Klong
area than in the Northern Chao Phya area.



- 12 -
Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.06      About 24,400 farm families, or a total of 137,000 persons, live
in the six subproject areas affected by Part A of the project. Based on
surveys conducted by RID in 1974 and 1976 the average farm size is 2.3 ha,
with some variation between the subproject areas (Table 2.1). /1 The farm
size distribution is moderately skewed but not more so than in other parts
of Thailand. Most holdings are fragmented into two or three plots and one
plot is commonly located in the lower-lying broadcast rice area with
another in a better-drained transplanted area.
2.07      The degree of tenancy (including landowners who rent additional
land) varies from 10% to 37% between the subproject areas. Renting is
normally from relatives or neighbors and there are very few cases of absentee
landlords. Rent is paid in various ways. Land is sometimes leased without
charge, usually to a close relative or sometimes to a stranger for the dry
season, when the owner does not wish to use the land. Sharecropping, whereby
the landowner receives 25% to 40% of the crop, is also practiced. However,
cash rents are becoming the normal method of payment. Average land in the
project area rents for about B 1,400/ha per crop season.
2.08      The farmers' houses are generally situated along the river
banks, canals, roads or other high spots. Thus, the distance to the
farm is generally only 1 to 2 km, except in the Manorom and Koke Kathiem
subprojects, where villages are more clustered. While no recent surveys
have been made in the areas to benefit from Part B of the project, it is
reasonable to assume that farm sizes and tenancy patterns are similar to
those described above.
2.09      The average farm size in the Mae Klong area is about 3.0 ha,
varying from 2.4 ha in the intensively cultivated terrace areas to
3.6 ha in the lower-lying broadcast rice areas. The farm size distri-
bution is similar to that recorded in Table 2.1 but slightly more skewed
and includes some large estates. Tenancy varies from 20% to 40% and may
be increasing. This situation, coupled with the rather feudal structure
of the sugar industry, warrants more careful investigation as part of any
long-term development plan.
Subproject Selection
2.10      Quantitative selection criteria were used to choose the areas
to be developed under Part A of the project, probably for the first time
in Thailand. The selection was carried out in two stages. In the first
stage, promising areas were preselected, in close consultation with the
RID engineers in charge of operation and maintenance in each irrigation
"iproject" of the Northern Chao Phya. The following criteria were used:
/1 Other surveys give an average farm size as high as 4.6 ha. This
variable will clearly need to be checked during project monitoring.



- 13 -
Table 2.1:   FARM SIZE DISTRIBUTION FOR PART A OF PROJECT
Subproject       Farm Size   Number of        % of       Area       % of   Avg. farm
Area          Category    Holdings    Holdings         (ha)     Area        size
(ha)                                                        (ha)
Group I
Boromdhart       0-1.0         1,810          14          980        4        0.7
Chanasutr      1.0-2.0         4,780         38        6,210        23        1.5
2.0-3.2        4,040          32        9,160       35        2.8
3.2-6.4        1,830          14        7,690       30        4.0
over 6.4           250          2        1,990        8        7.8
Subtotal                12,710         100       26,030      100        2.0
Group II
Koke Kathiem    0-1.0            390          6           310        2        0.8
Manorom        1.0-2.0         1,180          19        1,790        9        1.6
2.0-3.2        2,780          46        6,760       36        2.5
3.2-6.4        1,440          23        6,810       36        4.6
over 6.4           360          6        3,220       17        8.6
Subtotal                 6,150         100       18,890      100        3.0
Group III
Samchook         0-1.0           210          4            10     -- /a       -- /a
Don Chedi      1.0-2.0         1,240          23        1,800      10        1.4
2.0-3.2        2,100          38        5,450      31        2.6
3.2-6.4        1,560          28        7,490      41        4.7
over 6.4           380          7        3,330      18        8.4
Subtotal                 5,490         100       18,080    100         3.2
Total Area          0-1.0        2,410          10        1,300       2        0.6
1.0-2.0        7,200          30        9,800      16        1.5
2.0-3.2        8,920          36       21,370      33        2.6
3.2-6.4        4,830          20       21,990      35        4.4
over 6.4           990          4        8,540      14        8.3
Total                   24,350         100       63,000    100         2.5
/a   Not significant, due to small sample size.



- 14 -
(a) accessibility;
(b) irrigable area;
(c) condition of the main irrigation and drainage systems;
(d) land capability;
(e) average farm size and degree of fragmentation;
(f) land tenancy; and
(g) farmers' attitudes.
2.11      Land capability was based on the agro-economic regions devel-
oped by Small (Reference A-8) and RID soils mapping, with preference
being given to soils capable of diversified cropping. Areas selected
in this way totalled 100,000 ha and their suitability was further assessed
by questionnaires answered by and discussions with the RID O&M engineers.
In the final selection, the following criteria were given equal weight:
(a) land tenancy;
(b) population density; and
(c) farm size distribution.
Areas with a low degree of tenancy, a high population density (or small
average farm size) or a low proportion of farms over six ha were given a
higher priority. The average farm size criterion reflects the fact that
the intensive type of agriculture to be introduced under the project is
better suited to small farms. Large farm sizes also frequently indicate
low-lying lands subject to flooding, in this part of Thailand. The reason
for choosing areas with a low degree of tenancy and an even distribution
of farm sizes is that the project does involve some subsidy to the benefi-
ciaries and the Government felt that it was more appropriate that any
subsidies should go to small owner-operators rather than large operators
or landlords.
2.12      The area finally selected for Part A of the project comprised
37 complete irrigation "zones" (an operational unit of about 1,500 ha) in
eight noncontiguous blocks in six RID "project" areas (Map 12541). For
convenience, the three blocks in the Chanasutr Project have been grouped
as one subproject, giving a total of six subprojects. Basic data on the
subprojects is given in Table 2.2.
2.13      The areas listed in Table 2.2 do not completely represent the final
areas to be implemented for two reasons. First, it has been recognized that
irrigation zone boundaries do not form ideal boundaries for on-farm develop-
ment subprojects, as the zones are usually bounded by major drains and thus
may include a significant amount of low-lying land with little development



- 15 -
Table 2.2: SUBPROJECT DATA FOR PART A OF THE PROJECT
Net Cultivable
Subproject      Province          District      Gross Area        Area
('000 ha)      ('000 ha)
Boromdhart      Chainat         Muang Chainat         12              9
Sankhaburi
Chanasutr       Singburi        Bang Rachan           18            15
King Khai Bang
Rachan
Tha Chang,
Phromburi
Angthong        Sawaengha
Pho Thong
Wiset Chai Chan
Koke Kathiem    Lopburi         Muang Lopburi         11             9
Saraburi       Ban Mo
Manorom         Chainat         Muang Chainat          8              7
Sapphaya
Nakorn Sawan   Takhli
Samchook        Suphanburi      Si Prachan            13            10
Don Chedi
Samchook
Don Chedi        Suphanburi     Don Chedi              6             6
Total                                           68             56
Note:  Net areas are derived by deducting the areas of villages, roads,
irrigation facilities and so on from the gross areas. Areas
shown are subject to final survey.



- 16 -
potential. In addition, it has been found that it is easier to operate
on-farm development projects which are bounded by canals or roads. lf a
drain forms the boundary, farmers on the undeveloped side of the drain
tend to block it to flood their land, disrupting the operation of the
project. Therefore, RID and the consultants are in the process of adjust-
ing the subproject boundaries to exclude any large areas of low-lying land
and to avoid drains as boundaries. Measurements of flood levels in the
1976 wet season are being made for this purpose. The second reason for
adjustment is that the introduction of a variable standard of on-farm
development (para. 3.03) will permit the project area to be increased to
about 63,000 ha net for the same total cost. While these additional areas
will probably be obtained by contiguous additions to the blocks already
selected, they will not be finally determined until sufficient topographic
and cadastral mapping has been done to form a more accurate estimate of
the extent of each standard of development.
2.14      In selecting areas for rehabilitation under Part B of the project
it was first decided to focus efforts on large blocks of land rather than
attempting a rather superficial coverage of the whole Northern Chiao Phya
Plain. The 13 blocks so selected include some for which present defects
are particularly serious and others which are considered to have a higher
than average development potential. The latter areas were mostly included in
the initial selection for Part A and are also likely to be considered for
development in any third stage project.
Agricultural Conditions
2.15      The Northern Chao Phya area is characterized by a traditional
rice monoculture during the wet season, when mainly photosensitive local
varieties are grown. In the basins, where the water level is likely to rise
early and reach a depth of 80 cm or more, rice seeds are broadcast directly
on the plowed fields. Such areas account for about 30% of the subproject
areas under Part A, with significant variations between areas, and paddy
yields of only about 2.1 ton/ha are achieved. On the levees, where water
levels rise slowly and do not normally exceed 60 to 80 cm after maximum
Lillering, rice seedlings are transplanted on plowed and harrowed fields.
In favorable locations (about 8% of the subproject areas), water levels do
not exceed 30 cm and high-yielding varieties are grown. Yields are about
2.4 ton/ha for native transplanted varieties and 2.8 ton/ha for high-yielding
varieties (under present conditions of very low fertilizer use).
2.16      Land preparation, which was formerly done by buffaloes, is now
largely done by machines in this part of Thailand. Heavy tractors with
disc plows are used in the broadcast rice areas. Small 4-wheel tractors
or 2-wheel puddling machines are being increasingly used in transplant
areas. Field preparation begins in May and may continue through September.
Harvesting, which is done entirely by hand, and threshing, which is assisted
by buffaloes or tractors, starts late in November and continues through
January.
2.17      Dry season rice cropping with nonphotosensitive, high-yielding
varieties is generally confined to the areas adjacent to the canals, except



- 1 7 -
in the Samchook and Samchook Extension subprojects, where even topography,
a well-designed and operated irrigation system and a long history of irriga-
tion have allowed a much more extensive adoption of dry season irrigation.
The dry season cropping intensity varies from 15% in the east bank sub-
projects to 60% in Samchook, with an average for Part A of 32% (27% rice and
5% upland crops). While this intensity has increased fairly rapidly over the
last five years there is some evidence that, at least on the west bank, it
may be reaching a plateau, unless further investments in water control are
made. The reasons for the observed wide variations in cropping intensity
across the Northern Chao Phya Plain are not simple, according to a sample
survey carried out during appraisal (Working Papers Nos. C-15 and C-16).
However, it appears that the main factors leading to greater double cropping
are: a low degree of tenancy; security of tenure; inherent fertility; a
dependable water supply; access to credit; and, access to agricultural advice.
The project would aim at removing the last three constraints. Other factors,
such as farm size and the availability of labor, do not appear to be significant.
Dry season rice yields are at present about 2.7 ton/ha, the reduction from the
wet season value being due to increased pest problems. Further information
on varieties grown, cultural practices and pests and diseases is given in
Reference B-1.
2.18      The main upland crops are sugarcane, soybean, mungbean, maize
and peanuts, which are grown on the few areas with favorable topography
and soils. There is a sugar factory adjacent to the project area and it
is possible that the improved water control to be introduced under the
project might lead to a significant increase in sugarcane cultivation.
However, given projected prices and yields, it appears that there will be
little difference in the income from sugarcane and rice and thus it is
difficult to predict the future role of sugarcane very accurately.
2.19      Rice is grown on about 68% of the total cultivated area of the
Mae Klong project and on about 65% of the irrigated upper part of Stage I.
Broadcasting is widely practiced, especially in the lower part of Stage I and
cultural practices and yields are similar to those described in para. 2.15 for
Chao Phya. Sugarcane accounts for about 25% of the total project area and is
concentrated in the upper part of Stage I and the western part of the Stage
II left bank area. These areas are well served by 16 sugar factories along
the Mae Klong River. However, under rainfed conditions, cane yields are low
(about 50 ton/ha) with a low sugar extraction rate of 7.5%. Other upland
crops, such as soybeans, cassava and castor beans are also well suited to a
large part of the area but income from these crops is generally not compe-
titive with sugarcane. Tree crops, such as mangoes, pomelos and apples,
table grapes and vegetables, such as chillies, eggplant, cucumber, chinese
cabbage, onions and tomatoes, are widely grown on raised beds inside polders
in the low-lying southeastern part of the area, which has good road and water
connections to the Bangkok market. Further details of present cropping
conditions in the Mae Klong area are given in Reference B-2. Applied research
in the Mae Klong area is being carried out jointly by three universities under
the Mae Klong Integrated Rural Development Project (Reference B-9).



- 18 -
Transport and Marketing
2.20      The Northern Chao Phya area is linked to the Bangkok market by
good highway, railway and waterway connections. Within the area, there are
roads along most of the canals and, in addition, a network of provincial
roads links all the district centers, giving the area probably the densest
network of feeder roads of any agricultural area in Thailand. The main
transport constraint is the almost complete absence of farm roads. As
transport of paddy by human labor to the roadside adds about BIOO/ton to the
cost of production, it is not surprising that the attitude survey conducted
during appraisal showed that many farmers value farm roads as the most
valuable component of the on-farm development package.
2.21      The farmers sell their paddy through middlemen to the many private
rice mills in the Chao Phya area. Due to the adequate competition and
proximity to the Bangkok market, produce prices are generally high, compared
with other parts of Thailand. Inputs are mostly purchased from private
dealers, though recently some cooperatives have captured a significant
share of the fertilizer market because they are able to guarantee the
purity of their supplies.
2.22      The transport network is less well developed in the Mae Klong
area, especially in view of the bulky nature of sugarcane. While the major
highway network is reasonably good and further improvements are planned
under the Bank's Sixth Highway Project, additional feeder roads and farm
roads are required in the upper part of Stage I. The lower-lying areas are
generally served by an adequate network of waterways.
2.23      Marketing conditions for rice in the Mae Klong area are generally
satisfactory. Marketing of sugarcane is organized through a Sugar Growers'
Association which, however, is dominated by the "quotamen", who are generally
also large landowners, moneylenders and carriers. As a result, competition
is inhibited and a semifeudal structure has developed. Up to now, the
Government has not given much emphasis to the development of alternative
marketing systems, such as cooperatives, as the recent era of rapidly rising
prices for sugar, together with the relatively short history of the sugar
industry in this part of Thailand, has not led the farmers to feel that
they are being exploited.
Fisheries Development
2.24      Fish constitute the main source of protein in the diet of the
project area population. Fish are caught in the flooded paddy fields in
the wet season and in the rivers and drains in the dry season. Little use
is made of fish ponds at present.



- 19 -
3.  PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING
3.01      The project may be divided into the following semi-independent
components:
Part A (US$47 million) -  Rehabilitation of the main irrigation,
drainage and road networks and on-farm
development works to improve water control
and farm access to serve a net cultivable
area of about 63,000 ha distributed among
six subproject areas in the Northern Chao
Phya Plain;
Part B (US$14 million) -  Rehabilitation works only, to improve
water control and operational efficiency,
for an area of 138,000 ha (additional to
the Part A area), as well as topographic
mapping for about 300,000 ha of the
Northern Chao Phya Plain;
Part C (US$13 million) -  Topographic and cadastral mapping of about
50,000 ha, construction of three pilot
projects and 360 km of service roads and
associated works in the Mae Klong irriga-
tion area;
Part D (US$3 million)  -  Consultant services for implementing the
above works, preparing feasibility
studies for a third stage project in the
Chao Phya Plain and a second stage of
development at Mae Klong and for studies
of agricultural supporting services.
Provision would also be made under the project for improvements in operation
and maintenance, a fisheries development program and project monitoring and
evaluation. Each of the engineering components is described in more detail
below.
Part A (Rehabilitation and On-Farm Development)
3.02      Rehabilitation Works.  Rehabilitation works are required to
restore and upgrade the existing irrigation, drainage, roads and communi-
cations systems serving the subproject areas, to enable efficient operaticn
and to maximize water availability in the dry season. Works would include:
reshaping of canals, with enlargement of capacity in critical sections;
full canalization of natural watercourses where this is justified because
of heavy water losses; replacement of deteriorated or obsolete canal
structures; additional check structures to ensure full command of all
laterals and outlets at flows down to 40% of full design flow; replacement
of wooden road bridges by concrete structures (where justified by traffic
and/or maintenance considerations) and addition of new bridges over
canals and drains; installation of telephone lines to complete the



- 20 -
connection of all zonemen's and gate tenders' houses; enlargement and exten-
sion of main and collector drains, to give adequate drainage to all subproject
areas at least in the dry season (adequate drainage at all times would not be
feasible without massive investments); reconstruction or improvement of
service roads along the canals; and construction of additional houses for O&M
staff. Approximate quantities of works are given in Table 3.1. These works
would cost about US$140/ha. Lists of works have been compiled by the RID O&M
staff and have been reviewed by RID management and the consultants. Minor
modifications will, however, probably be required as the designs of the
on-farm works become available.
3.03      On-Farm Development Works.  On-farm development works would be
implemented over nearly all of the 63,000 ha included in Part A. There
would, however, be some small low-lying areas with little or no develop-
ment potential which would be excluded. The subproject area boundaries
are being drawn to exclude any large tracts of this kind. The standard
(or intensity) of development would be varied between and within tertiary
command areas to suit the agro-economic potential of each small area, in
a manner similar to the procedures adopted for the Phitsanulok Project (Ref.
B-5). Factors which would be taken into account by the designers include:
topography; size and shape of holdings; land capability; depth of flooding;
present cropping pattern and intensity; and the farmers' attitudes towards
land development and other technological innovations. Design criteria which
would be flexibly applied include: the average spacing of ditches, drains
and roads; whether or not boundary realignment would be required; and the
need for land levelling. Cost estimates have been prepared on the basis that
75% of the area would require "intensive" development, with the remainder
being developed "extensively" at a significantly lower cost. However, this
assumption is an oversimplification - development standards would vary all
the way from the intensive model which has been used throughout Stage I to a
level wherein only widely spaced ditches, drains and roads are constructed,
without land levelling. Costs would range from about US$300 to US$600/ha.
Further details are given in Working Paper No. C-5.
3.04      Fisheries Development - The Department of Fisheries would initiate
a program of demonstration fishponds under the project to help offset the
decline in fishing opportunities caused by the improvement of water control,
the increasing use of pesticides and the provision of more productive dry-
season farm employment. Over the first two years of the project, about 12
such fishponds (1 for each 5,000 ha under Part A of the project) would be con-
structed, each about 500 sq m in size, to demonstrate methods of growing and
harvesting fish. A system of fish culture, using agricultural residues and
household scraps as feed, has been shown to be financially viable, assuming
only modest yields of fish, according to a reconnaissance study carried out
under the Stage I Project (Reference B-8). If the pilot projects are suc-
cessful, the farmers would be encouraged to request that fishponds be incor-
porated in the design of the on-farm works affecting their holdings. if
incorporated in such development, the marginal construction cost would be



- 21 -
low. In order to inform the farmers of these opportunities, additional
fisheries extension officers would be assigned to the Part A subproject
areas. Motorcycles for these staff, miscellaneous equipment and
demonstration fishponds would be financed under the project.
Part B (Rehabilitation)
3.05      Rehabilitation Works.  Rehabilitation works similar to those
to be carried out under Part A would be constructed throughout an area of
138,000 ha, subdivided into 20 areas in 13 irrigation "projects". Works have
been concentrated in defined areas rather than scattered throughout the
Northern Chao Phya Plain in order to maximize benefits through complementary
investments. A preliminary list of works to be constructed is given in Table
3.2. This list would be reviewed by the consultants to ensure that only
high-priority items are included. Investment per ha (about US$80/ha) under
this part of the project would not be as high as for the analogous works
under Part A, as the agricultural potential and the need for water control and
access would not be as great in the absence of on-farm development.
3.06      Mapping.  Large-scale topographic mapping is a prerequisite to any
future irrigation improvement. Under the project, a start would be made on
the systematic mapping of the whole Northern Chao Phya Plain. A survey grid,
indexing system and control points would be established for the whole Northern
Chao Phya Plain, a gross area of about 700,000 ha. About 80,000 ha have been,
or will have been, mapped in connection with the Stage I project and Part A of
the present project. Under Part B of the project, an additional 300,000 ha
would be mapped, to a scale of 1:10,000 with a 25 cm contour overlay. Areas
with the greatest potential for future development would be selected for this
program. Maps would be drawn in a suitable form for the design of rehabilita-
tion works and for the planning of future on-farm works. At a later stage,
the survey information could be replotted at a scale of 1:4,000 for the design
of on-farm works, if desired. The size of the program (together with that to
be undertaken under Part C - para 3.09) is believed to be about the limit of
RID's ability to administer, assuming the introduction of the more efficient
methods of work, as suggested by the survey advisor financed under Credit 461-TH
and Loan 1149-TH, the use of equipment financed under various Bank Group projects
and the use of contractors for all works beyond RID's force account capabilities.
Equipment would be procured under the project to assist this program.
3.07      Miscellaneous.   Equipment would be procured to allow the stan-
dard of operation and maintenance to be upgraded in all areas covered under
Parts A and B of the project. This assistance would include the replacement
of worn out equipment and the provision of motorcycles to increase the
mobility of the zonemen and thus improve the operational efficiency of the
system. This equipment is listed in Working Paper No. C-13.
Part C (Mae Klong Development)
3.08      On-Farm Development.   Improvement in yields and the resolution
of conflicts between rice and sugarcane growers in the Mae Klong area
would appear to be constrained by the present lack of water control and
the lack of road access to the farms. While clearly some form of on-farm



Table 3.1: LIST OF REHABILITATION WORKS (PART A)
Subproject                            Total
Koke                  Don
Item            Unit   Boromdhart  Chanasutr  Manorom  Kathiem  Samchook    Chedi
Canal
reshaping   '000 cu m   462        2,013         119       30        470         88/a   3,182
Control
structures   each          21           9          8        -          9          -         47
Bridges:
- canals      each         13          10          7        6         13          1         50
- drains      each          5           3          -       17          9         11         45
Telephone       km           53          44         19         -         15         -        131
Drains         '000 cu m   115          463          -       965       709        283      2,535
Service roads  km            37          15          1       29         19         33        134
Houses          each         16          19          8         3         5           7          58
Other
buildings/b  each           7          15          6       15         12          3         58
/a  Also 12.8 km of lining has been requested - to be further examined.
/b Includes construction offices, temporary housing, and farmers' meeting places.



Table 3.2: LIST OF REHABILITATION WORKS (PART B)
RID Project Area
Chong   Koke       Reong   Chana-  Yang    Pho-         Don    Borom-               Pho-   Tha-
Item                  Unit   Manorom        Kae   Kathiem   Rang        sutr   Manee   phya    Chedi   dhart  Samchook  thep   bote   Maharaj               Total
Canal reshaping      '000 cu m    81/a        38       68        43        135      562       -        302   1,267       420      129     1,182     300       4,527
Ditch reshaping
Excavation            each       159        46        2         3         -         _-                 -      130        -       -          -      50         390
Lining/b              km           -         -        -         -         -         -                2.6        -        -        -       0.2       -         2.8
Structures
Check                 each         2         2        5         1          1        1       1          5       16         9       -         -       3           46
Siphon                each         3         4        -         -         -         -       -          -        -        -       -          -       -            7
Culvert               each         2         -        -         -          -        6       -          -        -         -       -         3       2           13
Turnout               each        80        38      102         6         10        8       1          -        -        -        -        26      25          296
Flume                 each         -         -        -         -          -        -       -          -       13         -       2         -       -           15
Drain inlet           each                        -             -         -             -        -          -        -            -         -      78           78
Others                each        11         -        -         -          -        -       -          -        -         -       -         7       -           18
Bridges
Canals                each        11        15        -         _          _        6       2          5        4        13       5         6       -           67
Drains                each         -         -        -         -          -        -       -          -        -                 -         -       -7
Drain                   km                     -       69          -         -       28      23         12        42       40       -         5      28          247
O&M road                 km          -         -       68         38         3        -      36         53         -       58       -        19       _          275



- 24 -
development will be required, it would be rash to go ahead with the large-scale
implementation of systems developed elsewhere, as the topographic conditions
and cropping patterns of the Mae Klong area will require distinctive solutions.
For this reason, a two-year program of pilot projects is proposed. Under
the project, three pilot projects, each between 500 and 1,000 ha in size,
would be constructed in locations which typify the major land form/crop
combinations. The first site, a largely rice growing area, has been identified
and a preliminary design prepared. As in the case of Chao Phya, the emphasis
would be on flexible design procedures to suit the agronomic potential and
cropping pattern of each area. In sugarcane areas, the emphasis would be on
good field drainage and road access, together with the gradual introduction of
supplementary irrigation. In the rice areas, the objective would be secure
and timely water delivery, road access and major drainage. Experience gained
on the pilot projects would be incorporated in the feasibility study to
be prepared under Part D of the project, which would pave the way for large-
scale investment in the future.
3.09      Mapping and Surveys.  No usable topographic maps exist for the Stage I
area of Mae Klong (150,000 ha). Under the project, a survey grid, indexing
system and control points would be established by RID's Survey Division for the
whole Stage I area and topographic mapping at a scale of 1:4,000 with 25 cm
contours would be carried out for about 50,000 ha. The areas to be mapped in
this two-year program would be generally those nearest the head of the system
and those with particularly severe problems of water delivery. Questionnaire
surveys would be made throughout the upper part of Stage I to identify areas not
receiving irrigation water and to identify the causes.
3.10      Roads.  Service roads have been constructed along only a few major
canals in the Stage I area. Other canals have unshaped roadbeds or footpaths
only. The lack of an adequate road network is a major constraint on agricul-
cultural development in the Mae Klong area, especially for sugarcane, and
also makes it difficult to operate the irrigation system efficiently. Under
the project, 84 km of feeder roads (8 m wide) and 278 km of 0&M roads (6 m
wide) would be constructed by RID over a three-year period. These roads are
listed in Working Paper No. C-10. The final list of roads, as well as the
design criteria, would be reviewed by the consultants and the Bank. Some
changes in the lengths of roads to be constructed may be expected when detailed
planning is undertaken, as some planned service roads may be found to parallel
existing public or private sugarcane roads.
3.11      Drains.  Lack of main drainage is a major problem in the upper part
of Stage I. RID is planning to complete the drainage network by 1979. About
497 km of drains and 179 structures will be constructed over this three-year
period. As these works were included in the project description for the Mae
Klong Project I (Loan 394-TH) and the equipment for their force account construc-
tion was financed under the loan, these works would not be financed out of the
proposed loan. The drainage program has been slowed by the age of the equipment,
budgetary stringencies, land acquisition problems and the low priority attached,
until recently, to this activity. An assurance has been obtained that RID
would complete the construction of the main drainage network for the Stage I
area before October 1, 1979  (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement).



- 25 -
3.12      Miscellaneous.  Funds would be provided for the rehabilitation
of 164 km and the construction of 176 km of telephone lines, the purchase
of 15 radio transceivers, and the procurement of additional vehicles and
equipment to permit the efficient operation and maintenance of the Stage I
system. These items are listed in Working Paper C-13.
Part D (Consultant Services)
3.13      Chao Phya (US$1.6 million).  Consultants would be employed to assist
RID and the Ministry of Agriculture in the implementation of Parts A and B of
the project and to undertake feasibility studies for a third stage of development.
Draft terms of reference are given in Working Paper No. C-4. In contrast to
the first stage project, the consultants would take little part in the day-to-day
work of design and construction but would concentrate on broader aspects such
as the planning of annual work programs, preparation of budgets, preparation
of bidding documents and evaluation of bids, evaluation of each year's per-
formance and the derivation of unit costs, analysis of the appropriateness
of design standards, monitoring of project benefits, the establishment of
improved standards of O&M at the farm level and at the project level, and
measures to improve the efficiency of the total irrigation system. A special
study of credit and marketing in the project area is also included. The feasi-
bility report for Chao Phya III would be prepared within three years from Loan
signing. As preparation of a self-contained, conventional feasibility report
for Stage III would be a rather expensive undertaking and would involve a lot
of unnecessary repetition, it would instead consist of a series of special
studies (not necessarily all at the same time) on those aspects of this type
of development which are not yet established practice. The third-stage project
would thus be a time slice of an ongoing program. The process of selecting
consultants is well advanced and the Government plans that a contract will
be concluded by the end of July 1977. Assurances have been obtained that con-
sultants acceptable to the Bank would be employed before October 31, 1977,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
3.14      Mae Klong (US$500,000).  Consultants would also be required to assist
RID and the Ministry of Agriculture in the implementation of Part C of the pro-
ject, particularly the pilot projects, and to undertake a feasibility study for
a major project for high priority developments in the Stages I and II areas of
the Mae Klong irrigation area. The feasibility study would be completed
within two years from Loan signing. Draft terms of reference are given in
Working Paper No.C-12. The consultants would concentrate on implementation of
the pilot projects and the selection and evaluation of appropriate systems of
on-farm development for the Mae Klong area. They would also develop an outline
for a medium-term plan for the physical and agricultural development of the
area and a detailed plan for the utilization of dry season water to become
available from the Ban Chao Nen reservoir. A condition of disbursement for
Part C of the project would be that consultants acceptable to the Bank had
been employed, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
3.15      Studies of Agricultural Supporting Services.  The Government intends
to carry out a program of studies of agricultural supporting services, such



- 26 -
as agricultural research and marketing on a national scale. The scope and
timing of these studies, which might lead to future projects, would be agreed
between the Government and the Bank at the appropriate time.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
3.16      Water Supply.  Water supply for the Chao Phya project area would be
obtained from rainfall and the controlled discharges from the Bhumiphol and
Sirikit Dams. Bhumiphol Dam has an average annual inflow of 6,000 M cu m and
a live storage of 9,800 M cu m, while Sirikit Dam has an inflow of 5,000 M cu m
and live storage of 7,200 M cu m. Reservoir releases are based on an annual
plan of operations agreed between RID and the Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand (EGAT). Dry season releases from the two dams for irrigation,
navigation and salinity repulsion have increased from 5,200 M cu m in 1972 to
6,700 M cu m in 1975. Studies under the preliminary phase of the Chao Phya
Basin Study (para. 2.03) have updated previous operational studies, taking
into account the continuing growth of dry-season irrigation demand. The
feasibility study (Reference B-1, Annexes C and D) shows that, based on a
simple model of the Northern and Southern Chao Phya Plain, the average and
peak demands from the project area can be met under the existing operational
rules. However, it appears that little surplus water will be available for
future expansion unless the operating rules are changed and/or the irrigation
efficiency of the system is improved.
3.17      Water Demand and Quality.  The irrigation water requirements for the
proposed cropping pattern have been calculated on the basis of theoretical
computations (Penman method). The calculations are shown in Reference B-1.
The net diversion requirements at the Chao Phya Barrage for a dry-season
rice crop would be 1,180 M cu m, assuming a total system efficiency of 56%.
Actual overall dry-season efficiencies in the Northern Chao Phya Plain have
increased from 14% to 38% in the last four years, without on-farm develop-
ment. The peak irrigation requirements would be 1.36 1/s/ha in April for
high-yielding varieties or 0.8 1/s/ha in July for traditional varieties.
Considering that only part of the area would be irrigated in the dry season,
the present canal design criterion would generally be adequate and no problems
are anticipated although more detailed investigations will be made during
final design. The annual average diversion requirements for the 63,000 ha
under Part A of the project would be about 620 M cu m, of which 440 M cu m
would be required in the dry season. Extensive sampling and detailed chemical
analyses have shown the water of the Chao Phya River to be of excellent quality
for sustained irrigation.
Status of Surveys and Design
3.18      Surveys.  Topographic surveying (by the Survey Division of RID)
was completed for 32,000 ha in the Samchook, Don Chedi, Chanasutr and Manorom
subprojects in 1976. Ground control work is completed for all subproject
areas and all topograhic mapping for Part A will be completed by October 1978.
Cadastral surveys, by the Land Department, have been completed for 17,000 ha
and are expected to reach 40,000 ha by October 1977. Detailed land classifi-
cation surveys have been completed by the Land Development Department for an
area of 3,000 ha in Samchook. An additional 15,000 ha will be completed by
October 1977. No surveys have yet been made for Parts B and C of the project.



- 27 -
3.19      Designs.   The only on-farm design work completed is for 740 ha in
Samchook. In 1977, 10,200 ha of designs will be prepared, including 2,400 ha by
contract. This situation is satisfactory, given that designs should not be
finalized more than one year ahead of construction. Designs for rehabilitation
works are straightforward and are usually prepared during the wet season before
construction is scheduled. No design work has been completed for Parts B and C
of the project, except for the preliminary design of one pilot project in Mae
Klong.
Implementation Schedule
3.20      The proposed implementation schedule for all components of the proj-
ect is shown in Figure 3.1. Construction would begin in October 1977 and con-
tinue through June 1982. However, the Governmnent would like to complete the
project in four years, that is, by June 1981. There are no technical reasons
why this accelerated schedule should not be achieved. However, a variety of
administrative problems will have to be solved if accelerated implementation
is to be achieved. The necessary administrative steps are discussed in
para. 4.09. The construction season for on-farm development would be limited
to January through June of each year because of the need to avoid the wet
season and to coordinate the work with the cropping calendar. In areas imple-
mented under Stage I where the farmers were already double cropping, no diffi-
culty was experienced in convincing them to give up one year's dry season crop.
Construction Methods
3.21      For most earthmoving operations, hand labor is not competitive
with machines (either financially or economically) in Thailand. For land
leveling and compaction of road pavements, machines are necessary to achieve
the necessary standards. For works such as digging ditches and drains and
trimming of embankments, some hand labor would be used, the decision depending
on the relative availabilities of labor and machines in particular localities.
The rehabilitation works would be more labor intensive, especially where
concrete structures are being repaired or constructed.
3.22      While the on-farm development works are in principle suited to
contract work, experience has been limited and some time will be needed
to fully engage the interest of contractors and for RID to build up its
capabilities for preparing bidding documents and supervising contractors.
The Government has decided that RID's force account capability for on-farm
works should be stabilized at about 8,000 ha per year - slightly larger than
the present capability - and all works above this limit would be executed by
contract. Equipment to be procured under the project (Table 3.3) would serve
to fill gaps in the existing fleet, to replace presently obsolete machines
and to replace equipment retired during the project construction period.
Additional equipment would be procured to supplement the limited present
capability for rehabilitation works. This equipment would be used for
routine O&M after the completion of project construction.
Cost Estimates
3.23      Based on early 1977 unit prices, the total cost of the project is
estimated at US$112 million (Table 3.4). The foreign exchange component is
estimated at about US$55 million, or 49% of total project cost, on the basis
that all equipment contracts would be won by foreign suppliers and all civil
works by local contractors.



- 28 -
Table 3.3: EQUIPMENT LIST (SUMMARIZED)
Item                   No. Required       Unit Price    Total Cost
-------(US$'OOO)/a------
Part A /b
Bulldozer, 140 hp                       33               51           1,683
Motorscraper, 9 to 11 cu yd              3               69             207
Backhoe, 3/4 cu yd                       4              127             508
Front-end loader                         2               53             106
Dump truck                              20               22             440
Water-tanker                            11               22             242
Service and other truck                 18               25             450
Field vehicle                           40                8             320
Pick-up truck                           29                5             145
Motorcycle                             250                1             250
Other heavy equipment                    -               LS             258
Other vehicles                           -               LS               88
Survey equipment                         -               LS             300
Office and misc. equipment               -               LS             160
Subtotal                                                   5,157
Spare parts /c                                                        1,043
Total                                                   6,200
Part B
Dragline, 3/4 to 1-1/2 cu yd            23               60           1,380
Backhoe, 3/4 cu yd                       3              127             381
Motorscraper, 9 to 11 cu yd             15               69           1,035
Motorgrader                              8               40              320
Bulldozer, 140 hp                       12               51             612
Front-end loader                         5               53             265
Truck                                   39               26           1,000
Field vehicle                           30                8             240
Motorcycle                              55                1               55
Other equipment                          -               LS              175
Survey and office equipment                              LS             300
Subtotal                                                   5,763
Spare parts /c                                                        1,137
Total                                                   6,900
Part C
Survey and office equipment                              LS             100
On-farm development equipment            -               LS             300
O&M equipment and vehicles                               LS           1,810
Subtotal                                                   2,210
Spare parts /c                                                          390
Total                                                   2,600
Grand total - equipment                                              15,700
/a In early 1977 prices.
/b Combined requirements for on-farm works, rehabilitation, survey,
supervision and O&M (minor revisions of quantities are likely).
/c Includes spare parts for existing equipment.



- 29 -
Table 3.4: COST ESTIMATES (SUMMARIZED)
Total      of   Foreign
Item                Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign    /a   Total  Exchange
---- B million ----    ---  US$ million --
Part A
Rehabilitation                      95      78    173      4.7    3.8    8.5    12         45
On-farm development
- intensive (47,000 ha)          249    316    565    12.2   15.5   27.7    38           55
- extensive (16,000 ha)           49     49      98      2.4    2.4    4.8       6       50
Fisheries development                3      --      3      0.2      --    0.2              10
Miscellaneous equipment /b           3      27     30      0.1    1.4    1.5        2      90
Engineering and Admin (10%)         82       5     87      4.1    0.2    4.3       3        5
Subtotal                481    475    956    23.7   23.3   47.0    61           50
Part B
Rehabilitation                     109      89    198      5.2    4.5    9.7    14         45
Mapping                             35       4      39     1.7    0.2    1.9        2      10
Miscellaneous equipment lb           1      13     14       --    0.7    0.7       1       90
Engineering and Admin (10%)         24       1     25      1.1    0.1    1.2       1        5
Subtotal                169    107    276       8.0    5.5   13.5    18         40
Part C
Roads                               78      64    142      3.8    3.2    7.0    10         45
Mapping                              6       1       7     0.3      --    0.3       1      10
Pilot projects                      14      16     30      0.7    0.8    1.5       2       55
Misc. works                          3       2       5     0.2    0.1    0.3    --         40
Misc. equipment /b                   5      48     53      0.2    2.4    2.6        3      90
Engineering and Admin (10%)         22       1     23      1.0    0.1    1.1       1        5
Subtotal                128    132    260       6.2    6.6   12.8    17         51
Part D
Consultant services
- Implementation Parts
A & B                          4     23      27      0.2    1.1    1.3       2       85
- Chao Phya III studies            1      5       6       --    0.3    0.3    --         85
- Mae Klong studies /c             2       8     10      0.1    0.4    0.5       1       85
Training                             1       1       2     0.1      --    0.1    --        50
Project monitoring                   4      --      4      0.2      --    0.2    --         5
Implementation of cost
recovery                           4     --       4      0.2      --    0.2    --         5
Supporting services and
other costs /d                    10     --      10      0.5     _      0.5      1        5
Subtotal                 26      37     63      1.3    1.8    3.1       4       58
Total project cost                 804    751  1.555    39.2   37.2   76.4   100           49
Physical contingencies              79      76    155      3.9    3.7    7.6               49
Price contingencies (Table 3.5) 280    295    575    13.9   14.1   28.0                    50
Grand total cost                 1,163  1,122  2.285    57.0   55.0  112.0                  49
/a  Early 1977 prices.
/b  Equipment for project design, supervision and O&M only.  The cost of construction
equipment for force account works is included in the civil works items.
/c  Includes implementation Part C.
/d  Includes project related work and studies by agencies other than RID, Land Development
Department, Land Department, Fisheries Department (accounted for above) and Agricultural
Extension Department (included under National Extension Project).



THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT 11
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Years
Item                              Quantity                 1977                  1978                  1979                  1980                  1981                  1982
Part A
Rehabilitation
Canals                                  3,182,000m3                         1900,000m3            1 0,0Gm3              59 00Om3                73,000
Drains                                 2,535,000Gn3                         1,220 Z00m3            961,0003             280 OOOm                7 5pOOm
Roads                                        134km                                                     39 km
Ori -farm developrrrrrrt(
MaPPing and Supyny                        52,00( ha       12,000 ha             140004 000000                               11,000 a
Constrre:io'r                             63,000 Ir                             10,000                       ha             14,000  a              15,0000 a          12 DOO hr
Parrt BI
RO)iailiat2irorr B                           2i,000                                 r 000 hr            34,000 ha            34,000 a              3h,GOO 4 0 h3  O4,000 ha
pMrrP                                 I    ] 300,0'.)0 hm                          60 000 .a              65,000 ha    i 5 , h000 be                  6c0000             50 00h i)
Part D
Roadfs                                          32 km                                                      78k
Piirrt Proicsa                                 2,500G,                                                      0 ha                1 LOb har5
Part D
Implo mentation
Choo Phyd Ill Study
Maekicng II StLJdy
Deliverav of EiWprmenti
asrd Vehiicles
WNet Season
World Barik  16648



- 31 -
The cost of on-farm development is based on detailed evaluation of equipment
performance carried out under the Stage I Project, adjusted to allow for the
more modern equipment to be used under the present project and also takes
into account recent bids on Stage I. Quantities are based on sample surveys
of topographic conditions and have been varied between the subproject areas.
Unit costs of rehabilitation and road works have also been based on experience
from Stage I and other RID projects, with the (preliminary) quantities shown in
Tables 3.1, 3.2 and para 3.10. The estimated cost of consultant services is
based on recently concluded contracts for similar services in Thailand and
averages US$7,100/man-month, including all overheads. For all civil works to be
constructed by force account, the cost of equipment to be procured under the
project is included in the civil works item.
3.24      Physical contingencies of 15% have been added to the cost of
rehabilitation works and also roads under Part C, reflecting the preliminary
status of the list of works. A contingency of 10% has been added to the
cost of on-farm development, mapping and miscellaneous works. While this may
seem low, as no final designs have been completed for on-farm development, it
is expected that increased use of contracting will bring about some reduction
in unit costs. Moreover, it will be necessary to keep a ceiling on costs,
and its most variable element, the amount of land levelling, in view of the
cost recovery measures to be employed (Chapter 8). In order to achieve
this, it will be necessary for RID to resist the tendency to build each
successive project area to slightly higher design standards. Price contin-
gencies have been added in accordance with standard Bank practice, as shown
in Table 3.5. Price contingencies amount to 33% of baseline costs, as a
result of the five-year construction period.
Financing
3.25      The proposed Bank Loan of US$55 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project. The Government's contribution of US$57 million
would be made in the form of annual budgetary allocations to RID and the
other agencies responsible for carrying out the project (Chapter 4). The
current practice is for the Central Office of Land Consolidation (COLC) to
prepare a consolidated budget request for all agencies involved in the project.
As the great bulk of project expenditures would be managed by RID, these
arrangements would be modified under the project and RID would receive its
budget directly from the Budget Bureau and would coordinate the requests of
the other agencies. The Government is well advanced in discussions with the
Government of Japan on a possible bilateral grant for the construction of the
pilot projects in the Mae Klong area and for the feasibility study of further
development at Mae Klong. These discussions are expected to be concluded by
September 30, 1977. If they are successful, the proportion of the proposed
loan now allocated for these activities would be used for other project-
related activities.
Procurement
3.26      Aside from procurement delays arising out of complicated clearance
procedures outside RID, which would be largely eliminated by the creation of
a Project Coordination Committee (para. 4.08), RID is also hampered by delays



- 32 -
in the preparation, issuing and evaluation of contracts due to internal
procedures. These procedures were recently examined in detail by a Bank
mission which made a range of recommendations as to how RID could improve its
procurement procedures. Some of the mission's recommendations were adopted by
RID but most of them would require further study and major changes in the
structure of RID's Procurement Division. These changes will be worked out in
detail under the proposed organization study (para 4.01).
3.27      Rehabilitation works under Parts A and B of the project (US$18.2
million plus contingencies) include the construction or repair of a large
number of small and scattered items and could not be combined into packages
large enough to be of interest to international contractors. Some of the
larger works requiring skilled labor, such as bridges and other structures,
would be constructed by contractors, following locally advertised bidding.
Other rehabilitation works, on canals, drains and roads, would be constructed
by force account, using equipment already on hand and additional equipment
to be procured under the project.
3.28      On-farm works (US$32.5 million plus contingencies) would need to be
planned and executed at short notice to coincide with the acceptance of boundary
realignment schemes by the landholders in many cases, as well as to avoid the
growing season and adverse weather conditions. For these reasons, the on-farm
works cannot be grouped into contracts of sufficient size to be of interest to
international contractors. While, in principle, the works are suitable for
locally advertised contracts (in the range of US$0.5 to 1.5 million), Thai
contractors have had little experience with this kind of work and time will be
needed to build up the capacity of the contracting industry. For these reasons
there will be a continuing role for force account construction, both to demon-
strate work methods and to fill in gaps where designs cannot be prepared far
enough in advance to permit bidding, especially in the first two years of the
project. Experience on the Stage I project indicates that works of this kind
can be satisfactorily carried out by contract, although administrative procedures
will require streamlining (para 3.26). In order to encourage the growth of the
Thai construction industry, an assurance has been obtained that not more than
65% of the on-farm development works under Part A of the project would be con-
structed by force account and that bid evaluation procedures for local
competitive bidding would follow Chapter III of the Bank Group's Guidelines.
Special provisions for mobilization advances would be made in the locally
advertised contracts for on-farm works to allow contractors to purchase
needed equipment. Foreign firms would be eligible to bid on such contracts
and documents would generally be in English.
3.29      Roads in the Mae Klong area (US$7.0 million plus contingencies)
would generally consist of the upgrading and laterite surfacing of existing
embankments at a large number of work sites. Experience on the Northeast
Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit 461-TH) has shown that contract
construction is feasible. It is therefore proposed to construct these works in
one or two contracts subject to international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines.



- 33 -
Table 3.5: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES
Total            Thai Fiscal Years (Oct 1-Sept 30)
Item                Cost  /a 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82
---------------------- US$ million ---------------
Part A
Rehabilitation                     8.5        0.2     2.5      2.5      2.5     0.8       --
On-farm development               32.5       0.5      5.5      6.9      7.3     7.3      5.0
Other costs                        6.0       0.2      1.0      1.4      1.4     1.2      0.8
Subtotal              47.0        0.9      9.0    10.8    11.2       9.3      5.8
Part B
Rehabilitation                     9.7        0.1     0.8      2.3      2.3     2.2      2.0
Other costs                        3.8        0.1     1.2      0.7      0.6     0.6      0.6
Subtotal              13.5        0.2      2.0      3.0      2.9     2.8      2.6
Part C
Roads                              7.0         --     1.9      2.6      2.5
Pilot Projects                     1.5         --     0.7      0.8       -
Other costs                        4.3       0.5      1.2'    1.9       0.7
Subtotal              12.8        0.5      3.8      5.3      3.2
Part D
Consultants                        2.1       0.2      0.4      0.5      0.5     0.3      0.2
Other costs                        1.0        --      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2
Subtotal               3.1        0.2      0.6      0.7      0.7     0.5      0.4
Total project cost                76.4        1.8    15.4    19.8    18.0    12.6        8.8
Physical contingencies             7.6       0.1      1.6      2.0      1.9     1.2      0.8
Price Contingencies
Baseline cost - civil works    59.2          0.8    11.4    15.1    14.6    10.3         7.0
Price escalation - annual (%)    --          6       12       12       10      10       10
- compounded (%)  (40)         6       19       33      46       61       77
Price contingency                23.9        --       2.0      4.7      6.5     5.7      5.0
Baseline cost - others           17.2         1.0     4.0      4.7      3.4     2.3      1.8
Price escalation - annual (%)    --          4.5      8        8        7       7        7
- compounded (%)  (24)         4.5    13        23      32       41       51
Price contingency                  4.1         --     0.6      1.1      0.9     0.8      0.7
Total price contingencies        28.0         --      2.6      5.8      7.4     6.5      5.7
Grand Total Cost                112.0         1.9    19.6    27.6    27.3    20.3    15.3
/a In early 1977 prices.



- 34 -
3.30      Ve'iicles and equipment for force account construction and for design
and super:iY;L-c3n activities, together with spare parts for equipment now owned,
(US$15.7 million) would be procured following international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or
the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$10,000 each and limited to a total of US$300,000, which are not suitable
for international tendering, would be purchased through normal government
procurement procedures (local competitive bidding or competitive quotations)
which ensure adequate competition.
Disbursements
3.31      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the cif
cost of directly imported equipment, or the ex-factory price net of taxes
for equipment manufactured locally, and at a rate of 65% of total costs for
imported equipment procured locally under off-the-shelf procedures. For
consultants' services and overseas training, disbursements would equal 100% of
total costs. Disbursements for civil works and mapping would be on a percentage
basis. Disbursements for force account works (including small local contracts
not subject to the Bank's review) would be made against certified statements
of completed work, signed by the Project Director. Supporting data for such
statements would be retained by the Government but would be available for
inspection by supervision missions. Any savings in the loan account would
be used to enlarge the area covered by the project or for any other purpose
related to the project as may be approved by the Bank. The proposed alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the loan and an estimated schedule of disbursements
are shown in Tables 3.6 and 3.7. It is expected that disbursements would
be completed by June 1983, about one year after the scheduled completion of
the project works.
Accounts and Audits
3.32      With the exception of RID, the other agencies participating in the
project would only have a small supporting role with expenditures equal to a
small fraction of the total cost. As these agencies are already subject to
normal Government control and auditing procedures, it would not be necessary for
the Bank to review their accounts or to insist that they should keep separate
accounts for the project. Assurances have been obtained that RID would:
(a) maintain separate accounts for the Chao Phya and Mae Klong
parts of the project;
(b) engage auditors satisfactory to the Bank to audit these accounts
annually; and
(c) submit the audited project accounts, together with the
auditor's comments, to the Bank within four months of the close
of each financial year.
The auditor's report would include an opinion on the certificates of expend-
iture for force account works (including small contracts) (para. 3.31).
The applicability of a cost accounting system for RID would be studied under
the proposed organization study (para 4.01).



- 35 -
Table 3.6: PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE LOAN
Category                                             Cost (including price  Amount of loan
contingencies)           allocated
A. Chao Phya
(1) Civil Works and Mapping by Contract
On-farm development                               16.8                     8.6
Disbursement would be at 50% of total expenditure.
(2) Civil Works and Mapping by Force Account
Rehabilitation (Parts A & B)                      25.6
On-farm works                                     30.4
Less:  construction equipment                     11.2
Subtotal                                    44.8                      17.4
Disbursement would be at 40% of total expenditure (excluding depreciation).
(3) Equipment and Vehicles
Construction equipment                            11.2
Miscellaneous equipment                            2.9
Subtotal                                    14.1                      13.3
Disbursement would be at 100% of foreign expenditures or local expenditures
exfactory, or 65% of total expenditures for imported items procured locally.
(4) Consultants' Services and Overseas Training
Implementation (Parts A & B)                       1.7
Feasibility Study - Chao Phya III                  0.4
Overseas Training                                  0.1
Subtotal                                     2.2                       2.2
Disbursement would be at 100% of total expenditures.
B. Mae Klong
(1)  Civil Works and Mapping by Contract
Roads                                              9.4                       4.8
Disbursement would be at 50% of total expenditure
(2)  Civil Works and Mapping by Force Account
Pilot project                                      1.7
Miscellaneous                                      2.3
Subtotal                                     4.0                       1.7
Disbursement would be at 40% of total expenditure (excluding depreciation).
(3) Equipment and Vehicles
Miscellaneous                                      2.8                       2.7
Disbursement provisions as for Category A(3).
(4)  Consultants' Services and Overseas Training    0.6                             0.6
Disbursement would be at 100% of total expenditures.
C. Unallocated
Physical contingencies                                     7.6                       3.7
Expenditures Not Financed
Engineering, administration and other costs                9.7
Total                                            112.0                     55.0



- 36 -
Table 3.7: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year and                         Accumulated Disbursements
Semester                                 (US$ Million Equivalent)
1978
1st                                           0.3
2nd                                           1.6
1979
1st                                           5.7
2nd                                          11.7
1980
1st                                          20.7
2nd                                          30.6
1981
Ist                                          38.4
2nd                                          44.0
1982
Ist                                          47.6
2nd                                          50.7
1983
Ist                                          53.4
2nd                                          55.0
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Environmental Effects
3.33      Since the project areas are at present irrigated in the wet season,
the introduction of irrigation improvement and the expansion of dry season
production is not expected to produce significant changes in environmental
conditions. Drainage improvement would reduce the amount of stagnant water
and thus reduce hazards from water-associated diseases. Schistosomiasis is
not present in the Central Plain of Thailand. Better control of irrigation
water, improved drainage and the increased use of chemical pesticides may be
expected to have an adverse effect on fish production. To counteract this
tendency, a program of fisheries development, based on private fishponds, has
been included in the project (para 3.04).



- 37 -
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Project Management
4.01      Direct responsibility for project implementation would rest with the
Royal Irrigation Department (RID), which was also the executing agency for all
nine previous Bank Group-assisted irrigation projects in Thailand. RID's organi-
zational structure and manpower, and recommendations as to how the agency
should streamline its activities in order to implement an increasing program
of irrigation development in the years ahead are discussed in the Irrigation
Program Review (Reference A-5). RID is presently selecting a consulting firm
to assist it with developing and subsequently implementing specific programs
along the broad lines recommended in the Irrigation Program Review.
4.02      Within RID, responsibility for Parts A and B of the project would
rest with the Deputy Director-General (OMI) who would act as Project Director.
Responsibility for day-to-day activities in the field for these two project
components would rest with a full-time Project Manager, a senior RID engineer,
reporting directly to the Project Director.
4.03      The design and construction of on-farm works under Part A of the
project would be handlod by the Land Consolidation Section of RID's O&M Division.
As was the case under the Stage I Project, the design of rehabilitation works
would be handled by the Design Division of RID. Construction of rehabilitation
works would be handled by the construction group of the Land Consolidation
Section. However, the Project (O&M) Engineers (para. 1.11) would be closely
consulted on the scheduling of works and would contribute some equipment for
their construction. All equipment purchased for rehabilitation works would
revert to the Project (O&M) Engineers after the completion of rehabilitation.
Topographic mapping fcr Parts A and B of the Project would be undertaken by a
unit within RID's SurN_y Division under the supervision of a chief surveyor for
the project. RID is considering replacing the above arrangements with an
On-Farm Development Division, under the Project Manager, to be fully responsible
for the implementation of Parts A and B of the project, in accordance with the
recommendations of the Irrigation Program Review. Implementation of this
proposal may, however, be postponed until the proposed management consultants
have completed the first phase of their study (end-1977).
4.04      At present, there is a notable lack of coordination between the
ongoing act-ivitiLes of iID's divisions in the Mae Klong area, as the Construc-
tion Division, Roads l;'vision, Project (O&M) Office, and the Land Consolida-
tion Section operate ladependent programs in the area.  The Construction
Division is operating in accordance with priorities which were set 15 years
ago and there is no oro in a position to decide on future priorities for the
whole project. In order to overcome this problem, the Deputy Director-General
(O&M) has been desigri-ed as Project Director (Mae Klong), to be ultimately
responsible for all RT' 's ac-ivities in the Mae Klong, including construction
activities outside Par.: C of the project, and to ensure that all the efforts
of the several divisions of RID are fully coordinated and oriented towards a
common goal. A Project Manager (Mae Klong) has also been designated to be
directly in charge of all irrigation, drainage, road construction and on-farm
development. A chief surveyor would be appointed to take charge of all surveys
and mapping. A condition of disbursement for expenditures under Part C of the
project would be that RID had formally appointed a Project Director and a
Project Manager, after consultation with the Bank.



- 38 -
4.05      .'veral other Government departments would also have a role in imple-
menting Pa:rt A of the project. The main one would be the Central Office of Land
consolidation (COLC), which is in charge of planning and coordinating on-farm
development works throughout Thailand. The COLC is supervised by the Central
Committee for Land Consolidation, a statutory committee established under the
Agricultural Land Consolidation Act of 1974 and chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture. COLC's functions on the proposed project would be as follows:
(a)  to prepare and issue Royal Decrees to permit land consolidation
in the project area (para 1.24);
(b)  to promote on-farm development among the project farmers;
(c)  to act as a liaison between RID and the farmers during the design and
construction stages and thereafter to determine the farmers' repayment
obligation for completed works; and
(d) to assist RID in establishing organizations and procedures for the
operation and maintenance of on-farm works.
COLC would appoint Provincial Land Consolidation Officers in each of the pro-
vinces affected by Part A of the project. These officers, who would work under
the administrative jurisdiction of the Provincial Governors, would carry out
the field level functions of the COLC. An assurance has been obtained that COLC
would, inter alia, issue Royal Decrees in advance of the construction season in
areas to be incorporated under the project.
4.06      Responsibility for cadastral surveys and issuance of title deeds
in all parts of the project area subject to on-farm development would rest
with the Land Department of the Ministry of Interior. The Land Department,
which is presently carrying out the same functions under Stage I, has recently
increased its staff for this activity and is also considering ways of doing part
of the work through contractors. It should thus have no difficulties in meeting
the project needs. The Land Development Department of MOAC is another agency
that would play a supporting role under the project. The Department would be
responsible for detailed land classification surveys in advance of the design
work for on-farm development. In addition, the Department's Land Policy Division
would have primary responsibility for data collection in conjunction with
project monitoring. The Fisheries Department of MOAC would be responsible for
the fisheries development program.
Project Coordination
4.07      To ensure smooth cooperation between all Departments engaged in
the project, the Deputy Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture has been
appointed as Project Coordinator under Stage I and will continue to serve
in this capacity for Stage II as well. His principal duties would include:
coordinating all project activities; ensuring that actions requiring higher
approval are quickly brought to the attention of the Under-Secretary and/or
Minister; and, to exercise such powers in the implementation of the project
and the award of contracts as may be delegated by the Coordination Committee.



- 39-
4.08      Although RID would have direct responsibility for che project,
various activities, particularly those involving procurement, budgeting,
staffing and the appointment of consultants, require clearan.ce and/or approval
by several departments, the Minister of Agriculture or even the Cabinet itself.
The process involved in obtaining these clearances is time consuming arid, parti-
cularly for procurement, is a serious cause of delays in project execution.
In order to overcome these problems under the Pbitsanulok irrigarion Project
(Loan 1149-TH), the Cabinet established a Project Executive Committee to which
it delegated full powers in respect of all project activities.  As this Com-
mittee has been effective in executing work under the Phitsanulok Project,
a similar Committee would be established for the Chao Phya Project. The
Committee would be chaired by the Under-Secretary of Agriculture and would
include the Project Coordinator, the Director-General of RID, t-;e Project
Director, the Project Manager and representatives of the MiThistrv of Interior,
Budget Bureau, Ministry of Finance, Public Prosecutor's Offite and Civil
Service Commission. Thus all the agenicies which now approve proposals and
documents sequentially would be able to take action simultanec/uslv.  The
establishment of a Project Coordination Committee, with composltion, powers,
functions and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectiveness for the proposed loan. The Committee would delegate most of
its powers in respect of procurement to a Bidding Subcommittee, chaired by
the Project Coordinator and including representatives from the Ministry of
Finance and Budget Bureau, as well as the principle project officials frrom
RID.
Acceleration of Project Implementation
4.09      The Government has pinpointed certain areas where administrative
reforms will be required in order to meet the accelerated project implementa-
tion schedule which it plans to adopt (para 3.20). Apart from the project
coordination measures just discussed and the organizational arrangements for
procurement described in para 3.26, these steps include expediting the hiring
of consultants and the procurement of the project equipment, the delegation of
greater authority to the Project Director and Project Manager,  more rapid ap-
proval of any required reallocations within the project budget, and the employ-
ment of sufficient staff to assist the Project Director.
Agricultural Supporting Services
4.10      Seeds - Responsibility for plant breeding and the production of
foundation seed for rice rests with the Department of Agricultural Techniques,
through its Rice Experiment Stations. Stations serving the Northern Chao
Phya area are located at Chai Nat and Suphanburi (which together produce about
50 tons of foundation seed per year), while the Ratchaburi station serves the
Mae Klong area. Some foundation seed is sold directly by the stations to
farmers, but most is channeled through the Department of Agricultural Exten-
sion (DAE), which multiplies the seed through a contract system with private
growers. However, supervision of the contract growers is lax and the
existing facilities for seed certification are underutilized. While the
present system of drying and cleaning seed is adequate, the Zreatment of seed
against disease is not. Assistance in upgrading seed processing is being
made available under a USAID-financed National Seeds Project but this is



mainly directed towards upland crops. One result of the improved extension
program in the project area should be a sharply increased demand for quality
seed. Under the project, DAF. would expand its network of contract seed
growers within the project area, increase the number of seed inspectors
and upgrade its certification program. Additional equipment and vehicles
required for this purpose would be procured under the project.  An assurance
has been obtained that DAE would expand its seed production and distribution
program to achieve high quality seed production sufficient to allow farmers
under Parts A and B of the project to replace their paddy seed once in every
four years.
4.11      Fertilizer - At present, practically no fertilizer is applied
to traditional wet season rice varieties, while only 5 to 10 kg/ha of
nitrogen is applied to high-yielding varieties. The fertilizer normally
used is ammonium phosphate (16-20-0 or 20-20-0) which is manufactured in
Thailand and is recommended by DAE for paddy throughout the country,
despite the fact that research at Chai Nat has shown that, in the Central
Plain, response to phosphate is negligible and it should only be applied as
an occasional basic dressing. Use of ammonium phosphate as a source of
nitrogen alone is uneconomical. The drawing up of revised fertilizer
recommendations has been included in the consultants' terms of reference
for the National Extension Project. Under the project, it is expected that
urea will become the major source of nitrogen, though the farm budgets
(Chapter 7) assume that some ammonium phosphate will continue to be used as
a basic application. Application rates should increase to about 65 kgN/ha
on high-yielding rice, 40 kgN/ha on local transplanted varieties, 16 kgN/ha
for upland crops and would remain negligible for broadcast rice. In the
aggregate, the demand for ammonium phosphate is expected to increase from
400 ton/yr to 8,700 ton/yr and the demand for urea to increase from 160
ton/yr to 9,400 ton/yr. Fertilizer is supplied by a large number of
private dealers, shopkeepers and, increasingly, by cooperatives. Given
the improvements in production credit to be introduced under the project,
it is expected that the existing supply network would be able to expand to
meet the large increase in demand, as has been the case in the Stage I
project area.
4.12      Production Credit - Farmers in the project area obtain production
credit either from relatives, private money-lenders or an institutional credit
agency, such as the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) or
a cooperative. With the gradual improvement in the service rendered by BAAC,
more and more farmers are using its credit facilities either directly or through
cooperatives and farmer groups. An Agricultural Credit Project, to be adminis-
tered by BAAC and the cooperatives, has been proposed for possible Bank financing.
The regulations governing loan operations are reasonable and the farmers in the
project area should have no difficulty in obtaining production and development
credit. It is estimated that the incremental short-term production loan require-
mients for farmers under Part A of the project would rise from B 5.6 million in
Year 1 to B 43.5 million in Year 5. The developmental finance needed by the
project beneficiaries for purchasing tractors and other equipment would total
about B 150 million over the same period. It appears that BAAC would have no
insurmountable problems in servicing the credit needs of the farmers in the
Part A area, as well as the smaller incremental requirements in the Part B
areas.
4.13      Short-term production credit and medium-term development loans
would be disbursed partly by BAAC directly and partly through cooperatives.



- 41 -
The 17 cooperatives in the project area have been reorganized along district
lines, have fairly large memberships, with sufficient share capital and reserves
and satisfactory loan operations. The rate of repayment of loans by their
members is reasonable and most are showing a profit. Most of the societies
have full-time paid managers. They are engaged in the supply and distribution
of agricultural inputs and the marketing of members' produce. However, there
is a need for the BAAC to exercise closer supervision over the financial opera-
tions of the cooperatives, with a view to ensuring that the loan funds are
utilized for the purposes approved by BAAC and that the recoveries of loans
made by the cooperatives are passed on to BAAC. In this connection, BAAC
would secure the services of two experienced senior officers of the Cooperatives
Promotion Department to assist it in laying down rules and regulations for deal-
ing with cooperatives and for training the branch managers and their staff in
the techniques of conducting financial inspections of the books and records of
the cooperatives. Further details on production and developmental credit needs
are given in Working Paper No. C-17. An assurance has been obtained that BAAC
and the cooperatives serving the project area would increase their trained staff
and provide sufficient funds to meet the reasonable short-term and long-term
credit needs of the farmers in the project area.
4.14      Research - The status of agricultural research in Thailand is described
in Reference B-7. Agricultural research related to the Northern Chao Phya area
is conducted at the well-equipped Central Region Agricultural Center at Chai Nat
which employs about 40 specialists. Research on upland crops grown in the Mae
Klong area is carried out at the Uthong station while research on sugarcane is
carried out at a station at Tha Muang run by the Sugar Growers' Association.
Useful research on water use and management for sugarcane, rice and upland crops
is being carried out by RID at Kamphaeng Saen, but the Samchook station for rice
irrigation research is largely inactive.  Between them, these stations are pro-
viding an excellent technological base for the project - improved strains of
rice and other major crops are being produced periodically and fertilizer res-
ponse and control measures for the tnajor pests are well understood. The link
between research and extension will be strengthened under the National Extension
Project, through the creation of a National Coordinating Committee for Agricul-
tural Extension, as well as Provincial Extension Working Groups and Technical
Advisory Panels in all provinces covered by that project.
4 15      Exterunon - The system of agricultural extension in Thailand, its
problemns and the improvements to be introduced under the National Extension
Project (Loan 1393-TH) are described in detail in the Appraisal Report for
that project (Reference B-6). Extension services for crops in the project
area are provided at present mainly by the Department of Agricultural Extension
(DAE) and to a limited extent by the Cooperatives Promotion Department, the
Land Developmer~t Department and RID. Under the National Extension Project,
the extension service for most major crops will be expanded and made more
effective.  This would 4nvolve the appointment of additional staff, especially
subject matter specialists and extension agents at the subdistrict level, and
the introduction of an extension methodology which stresses regular farm visits,
a concentration initially on improvements not requiring cash outlays, continuous
in-service training for the extension workers and periodic monitoring of the
results of extension. At the subdistrict level, full-time extension agents
would be appointed, each covering about 1,000 farm families. The project
would be phased in on a province-by-province basis, covering the Chao Phya



- 42 -
subproject ireas in 1978 (except for a small part of the Manorom sub-
project are? which will be included in 1979). The Mae Klong area will
be partl,v  overed by the Extension Project in 1979.
4.16      Farmer Organizations - At present, a multiplicity of farmer
organizations exist, many of them with overlapping functions but many also
inactive because of a lack of felt need from the farmers. Each Department
of MOAC is promoting its own type of organization: Farmer Associations and
4-H Clubs by the DAE; Water User Associations by RID; and several kinds of
cooperatives by the Department of Cooperative Promotion. In addition, the
BAAC lends through informal farmer groups. Under the project, efforts
would be focussed on those organizations for which the need is greatest and
which are potentially viable. There are three main needs: extension;
credit and marketing; and O&M of the on-farm works. Extension advice and
responsibility for O&M would be channeled through farmer groups at the
service unit level while credit, the sale of inputs and, if required, the
sale of produce would mainly flow through strengthened cooperatives at the
district level, with informal farmers' groups being used by BAAC for
nonmembers of cooperatives.
4.17      Provincial Coordination - Coordination of all agricultural support-
ing services with each other and with the construction activities under the
project would be effected through Provincial Working Groups in the ten
provinces affected by Parts A and C of the project. These Working Groups
would be chaired by the Governor of the Province and would include the senior
field representatives of RID, COLC, DAE, other agricultural agencies, and
BAAC. Such Working Groups would be established in the project areas under
the National Extension Project.
Operation and Maintenance
4.18      Main System - O&M of the irrigation system down to the farm
turnout, some service roads and the main and collector drainage systems
is the responsibility of RID's Regional Offices. The standard of O&M at
present is inadequate, due primarily to insufficient funding but also
reflecting a varying degree of supervisory control, as evidenced by the
observed disparities in maintenance standards between areas. The main
problems are siltation of canals, operation of canals above their full
supply level, erosion of banks, control structures which cannot be operated,
scour downstream of structures, deteriorated road surfaces, and blockage of
drains by fish traps. In order to correct these deficiencies, funding
should be increased so that routine maintenance (desilting, repair of
banks, surfacing of roads, etc.) can be performed on a three-year cycle.
The present budgetary allocation, which averaged US$6.70/ha in 1976, is
well below the level for well-maintained systems in neighboring countries
and is sufficient only for a five- to six-year maintenance cycle. The
annual cost of adequate O&M has been tentatively estimated at US$12.00/ha
in early 1977 prices. An assurance has been obtained that RID would
operate and maintain all the irrigation, service roads and drainage systems
under its jurisdiction, required for the functioning of all facilities
constructed under the project and the Stage I Project, in accordance with



- 43 -
sound engineering standards including, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the adoption of a three-year cycle for routine maintenance, Consultant
assistance would be available for establishing the new standards, Equipment
procured under the project for rehabilitation works or directly for O&M would
also be available.
4.19      On-Farm Works - O&M of the ditches, drains and roads bol.-w the
farm turnout would be the responsibility of the farmers in each service
unit. The Water Users' Association Section of RID's O&M Division would
establish and staff a small unit to foster the establishment of farmer
groups in each service area. While this kind of work has been done under
the Stage I Project, it has not yet become an integral part of RlK.'  work
program.  Each farmer group, with typically 20 members, would elect a group
leader, a contact farmer (for the extension service), and a common irrigator,
who would be responsible for operating the on-farm works and for ensuring
that maintenance is carried out. At present, common irrigators are
paid by RID but, under the project, this subsidy would be phased out within
four years of the construction of on-farm works in any area. Routine mainte-
nance would be carried out twice a year, before each crop season. The
farmer group would decide whether to carry out the cleaning of the ditches
and drains communally, by hired labor or by each farmer cleaning the ditch
and drain adjacent to his property. Initially, the latter method is likely
to be the most popular. The cost of O&M of the on-farm works is tentatively
estimated at US$4.00/ha/yr for intensive development and half that amount
for extensive development. These amounts would be assessed, in cash or kind,
by the farmer groups on their members.
4.20      A schedule for rotational irrigation within the service unit would
be drawn up by the RID zoneman in consultation with the common irrigator
before each season and would be approved by a meeting of the farmer group.
The common irrigator would ensure that the schedule is adhered to. In
addition, RID staff would monitor the performance of the common irrigators
and would refuse to supply water to service units which are not being
properly maintained, which are not adhering to their rotational schedules
or in which there is an excessive waste of water. RID staff and the farmers
would require training in the above matters and this would be organized by the
Water Users' Association Section, and would be phased with project construction,
beginning with the Stage I project areas. Farmer groups at the service unit
level would be loosely federated into Water Users' Associations (some of which
already exist) in order to discuss larger questions such as cropping patterns
and calendars and seasonal water requirements. Consultant assistance would be
available for implementing the new methods. The above proposals would be
facilitated by strengthening RID's legal powers to establish farmer groups and
to enforce water use discipline. To this end, legislation is being drafted by
RID and is expected to enacted by the end of 1978.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.21      Project Monitoring - The Land Policy Division of the Land Develop-
ment Department of MOAC would be responsible for monitoring the changes in
the project area resulting from the project, as it has done for the Stage I



project. The surveys done prior to and during appraisal would form the baseline
from which changes could be measured.  Socio-economic surveys would be made
every crop seasor to measure such basic variable as yields, input use and farm
incomes. Special surveys would be made as needed for topics such as the spread
of new agricultural techniques, credit or iarketing.  For all surveys, areas
benefitting from the project woulad be compared with control areas.  Sulrveys
would be carried out both in areas receiving rehabilitation alone and those
receiving on-farm development as well. An attempt would be made to differentiate
the benefits from different intensities of on-farm development. Project nmonitor-
ng would be coordinated with the monitoring of the National Extension Project
in the same provinces.  The Land TPolicy Division would tabulate, analyze and
publish all data collected, with consultant assistance.
4.22      Project Evaluation - Evaluation of the technical performance of the
agencies responsible for construction and supporting services would be carried
out by the agencies themselves. Such studies might include analysis of equipment
performance, comparison of force account and contract construction, evaluation
of O&M performance, the relative effectiveness of alternative credit sources,
or tnae farmers' attitudes to the proposed fisheries development program. Assis-
tance from the International Rice Research Institute may be available for the
evaluation of alternative standards of on-farm development. In addition,
evaluations of the extent to which the project is meeting its objectives or the
priority of projects of this kind in Thailand's agricultural development would
be carried out from time to time by the Division of Agricultural Economics of
MOAC.  The Division has a core of highly trained staff with access to computing
facilities. As a rule, the Division would not collect data itself but would
rely on information collected by the Land Development Departraentl. The Division
would assist RID to prepare a completion report on the project, in coordination
witlh the other departments concerned.
5. CROPPING PATTERNS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Future Cropping Pattern
5.01      The present cropping pattern in the Part A project area is described
in paras 2.15 to 2.19. The projected future cropping patterns for the same area
are presented in Table 5.1. For analytical purposes, the area has been divided
into areas of extensive (16,000 ha) and intensive (47,000 ha) on-farm development,
whiereas in fact development standards would vary over an entire spectrum from
least to most intensive (para. 3.03).  Under the project, improved water distri-
bution would remove the risk of drought for the wet season crop. With improved
drainage, land leveling and access, the area of broadcast, long-stemmed, lodging,
local variety rice would decline from about 45% to less than 20% of the project
area. "ihe area of transplanted local variety rice would also decrease from
about 45% to less than 20%. while the area of HYVs in the wet season would
increase from little more than 5% to over 50% of the project area.  Separate
projections have been made for each of the subareas, reflecting differences in
tile present cropping patterns and the agronomic potential. The rates of growth
of cropping intensity have been assumed lower than observed rates in the Stage I
project, because of the larger areas involved.
5.02      Improved availability of water in the dry season would allow
rice cropping on more than half of the project area, while farmers on about
10% of the area, mainly on lighter soils and self-mulching clays, would grow
secondary crops, of which soybeans would be the principal.



- 45 -
Future Crop Yields
5.03      Projected changes in yields due to timely availability of irriga-
tion water, improved drainage, on-farm works such as boundary realignment
and land leveling, better access, improved availability of credit and inputs,
together with an effective extension service, are presented in Table 5.2.
"Future without project" yields assume the continuation of past trends and the
implementation of the National Extension Project. Wet season paddy yields,
which now average about 2.2 ton/ha, are expected to increase to 3.5 ton/ha with
the project at full development, compared to 2.9 ton/ha without the project; dry
season yields are expected to increase from 2.7 ton/ha to 4.4 ton ha. Projected
yields would be achieved five years after development of each farm, and in year
eight for the entire project area. Projections are based on yields presently
achieved by progressive farmers in the project area and by researchers under
experimental conditions, with adjustments to field conditions. These projections
are reinforced by observed yield increases in the completed parts of the Stage I
Project, where dry-season paddy yields averaged 4.1 ton/ha over an area of 1,700
ha in 1976.
5.04      In extensively developed areas, rice yields would increase due to
improved local varieties and better water regulation. In the more intensively
developed areas local varieties, broadcast onto plowed land, would produce
increased yields through timely and more thorough land preparation, good
quality seed of the best adapted varieties, improved weed and pest control,
some use of nitrogen fertilizer, effective rodent control and a more timely
harvest. The recently released variety RD5, which is tolerant to semi-deep
water, and resistant to some diseases, is expected to become popular with
farmers who can expect water levels not deeper than 50-60 cm. Yields as high
as 5 ton/ha have already been obtained under field conditions.
5.05      Yields of local transplanted varieties would increase through the
use of adapted pest and disease resistant varieties, like RD5, easily acces-
sible, well laid out nurseries, improved soil preparation and water manage-
ment, the use of nitrogen fertilizer at critical growth stages, preventive
and curative agro-chemicals for the control of pests and diseases, and timely
harvest and threshing. The extension service would encourage row and block
transplanting to allow easier weeding and improved pest control.
5.06      Transplanted HYVs grown in the wet season would in future consist
of the newly released RD7, RD9, C4-63 and others still in the pipeline.
These varieties have improved disease and insect resistance, particularly to
serious yield reducing diseases such as grassy stunt, yellow orange virus,
blast and other less serious and more common diseases such as Helminthosporium
and Cercospora. Their resistance to plant and leaf hopper damage is also
important. Close attention would be paid to nursery preparation and timely
transplanting of sturdy seedlings. HYVs have a high yield potential when
they are allowed to express this through: (a) obtaining the optimum number
of panicles per unit area, which is achieved by correct spacing of seedlings
and tiller development without weed competition; and (b) providing adequate
nutrients and thus photosynthetic leaf area to fill the formed florets to a
full grain size. Nutrients must therefore be applied at the critical stages
of tiller development and panicle formation to a weed-free crop. The ability
to drain the crop at late milk or soft-dough stage of grain development would
allow a uniform ripening and grain quality.



- 46 -
Table 5.1: AREA CROPPING PATTERNS
Boromdhart        Koke Kathiem           Sartichook           Total
Chanasutr            Manorom             Don Chedi           Project:
(26,000 ha)         (19,000 ha)       (17,900 ha)          (63,000 hLa)
%    ha /a        %      ha /a         Z     ha /a         %    ha la
Present
Extensive area
Rice:  Broadcast (wet)                 23    6,000         26    5,000          17    3,000       22   14,000
Local transplant (wet)           0         0         0         0        11    2,000         3    2,000
Intensive area
Rice:  Broadcast (wet)                 25    6,500         35    6,700          4       700       22   13,900
Local transplant (wet)          41   10,600         28    5,300         58   10,400        42   26,300
HYV (wet)                        6    1,500          6    1,100          7    1,200         6    3,800
HYV (dry)                       17    4,400         10    1,900         48    8,600        24   14,900
Soybean                                 6    1,500          3       600         5       900        5    3,000
Cropping intensity:  Wet               95   24,600         95   18,100         97   17,300        95   60,000
Dry             22    5,900         13    2,500         53    9,500        29   17,900
Total          117   30,500        108   20,600        150   26,800       124   77,900
Future with project
Extensive area
Rice:  Broadcast (wet)                 12    3,000         16    3,000          6    1,000         11    7,000
Local transplant (wet)          12    3,000         10    2,000         22    4,000        14    9,000
Intensive area
Rice:  Broadcast (wet)                   7    1,800         8    1,600           4      700        6    4,100
Local transplant (wet)          19    4,900         16    3,100         16    2,900        17   10,900
HYV (wet)                       51   13,312         49    9,400         52    9,300        51   32,000
HYV (dry)                       46   12,100         50    9,500         64   11,400        52   33,000
Soybean                                15    3,900         10    1,900           7    1,200        11    7,000
Cropping intensity:  Wet              100   26,000        100   19,100        100   17,900       100   63,000
Dry             62   16,000         60   11,400          70   12,600       63   40,000
Total          162   42,000        160   30,500        170   30,500       163  103,000
/a Rounded to nearest 100 ha.



- 47 -
Table 5.2: CROP YIELDS: PRESENT, FUTURE WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
Future                 Yield Increase
Present    Without    With           Over      Over Without
Project   Project    Present          Project
-----      (ton/ha))-------  %-
Extensive Area (16,000 ha)
Rice:  Broadcast (wet)            1.6        1.8         2.0         25            11
Local transplant (wet)  2.0          2.5         3.0         50            20
Intensive Area (47,000 ha)
Rice:  Broadcast (wet)            2.1        2.3         2.5         19             9
Local transplant (wet)  2.4          2.7         3.5         46            30
HYV (wet)                 2.8        3.0         4.0         43            33
HYV (dry)                 2.7        3.6         4.4         43            22
Soybean                          1.0        1.3          1.8         80            38



- 45f -
5.07      Dry season yields would increase substantially through the exclusive
use of adapted disease and insect resistant HYVs, the optimal use of timely
applied nitrogen fertilizer, and an effective pest and vermin control program.
Yields from a we'l developed crop at correct panicle density and nutrient
status would be higher than those obtained in the wet season, and more solar
radiation during the vegetative stage of growth would allow more effective
photosynthesis. The increased use of rotavators (para 5.10) would give farmers
enough time for good soil preparation, which tends to be more difficult in
the dry season due to the need to incorporate straw from the wet season crops.
5.08      Increases in secondary crop yields would be achieved through land
leveling or grading which would permit timely water management, introduction of
pr-oved cultivation and planting techniques (such as planting on hills at the
t--rect spacing), the use of good quality seed of adapted high-yielding varieties,
and greatly improved insect and weed control.
Cro2pig Cal endar
i.39      Farmers will choose a cropping calendar to suit seasonal condi-
tions, availability of irrigation water, draft power for soil preparation and
'manpower.  A distinct cropping pattern has already developed ir areas where
dry season rice is presently grown. This pattern virtually ensures the most
afficient use of technical and institutional resources. Using short to
wedium-duration varieties of 110-130 days in both wet and dry seasons allows
ilexibility for soil preparation.  Cropping patterns for the future are shown
in Figulre 5.1. Wet season cropping allows for dry soil preparation for the
broadcast and transplanted local varieties, which have a lon1ger growing
season.  Sowing and transplanting would generally be in May-June with har-
iastlng in the dry season (January-February for local broadcast rice and
November-January for local transplanted varieties). Wet season HYVs would
generally be planted in July-August and harvested in November-December. This
wrould then allow planting of the dry season crop from mid-January to early
March and harvest from mid-May to mid-July.  Increased dry season cropping
has required later planting of the wet season crop, which has led to an
increased area of wet soil preparation (puddling).  With the introduction of
rice varieties of shorter growing season, and the more mechanized land
preparation, it would be possible to advance dry season planting. Soybeans
and other secondary crops would continue to be grown from January to May-June.
Cultural Practices
5I1O      Land Preparation and Weeding.  Following land leveling and boundary
realignment, rice fields in the project area would be ideally suited for
mechanized soil preparation. With an increased cropping intensity it would
become essential to conduct operations in a timely manner.   Straw of the
prev ous crop would be slashed, whenever possible to allow quick burning, since
both dry and wet soil cultivation is easier and faster if the straw does not
have to be incorporated. The final seedbed would be level and free of weeds and
farmers would be encouraged to apply basic fertilizers prior to transplanting,
so that the fertilizer would be incorporated into the soil to avoid excessive
loss of nitrogen. Dry cultivation could be done by plow and harrow, but it
is expected that rotavators would become more popular, both for final dry
soil preparation and for puddling. To minimize weed competition, row



- 49 -
FIGURE 5.1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT 11
AREA CROPPING CALENDAR
Jan.  Feb. Mar. Apr  May  June  July  Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.
RICE
Br oadcast:
Land preparatior               -                                                                7I
Broadcasting
Weeding
Wdter management                 -+ _               __
Local                Harvestirig/threshing                T
TLocals)dt:-                                                     -                            i
Land preparation             t  I                      ... A D f
Nursery                                     t 
Transplanling                               I
Fertilizing                         _-
Spraying                              -    t                 .        - L_
Weeding                           _            .   .                    _.             ......................   _ _
Water management                                                  ------___       _-
Harvesting/threshing                ..     _....
High Yield
Variety
(Wet Season) __-tt -{  
Land Preparation                     t                         .  .....  ..
Nursery
Transplanting
Fertilizing
Spraying                              -  T
Weeding
Water management                                         ...........
Harvesting/threshing       tT
High Yield                                                                                   tt
Variety
(Dry Season)
Land preparation
Nursery
Transplanting
Fertilizing                               _                                          .        _
Spraying
Weeding                          _          -T
Water management
Harvesting/threshing
SOYBEANS:                                                                                           1 t   t
Land preparation
Planting
Fertilizing                                                                         t
Spraying
Weeding
Water management                                   ____
Harvesting/threshing              -                                                              _[
. ............. Present
Future with prolect
World Bank  16651



- 50 -
transplanting would be encouraged to permit the use of small, hand operated
weeders. If row transplanting is not practical, because of high labor
costs, hand weeding or chemical control would be necessary. Development of a
low cost pre- and post-emergence herbicide, which would control both grass and
broadleaf weeds, would be greatly beneficial to the area.
5.11      Plant Protection.  Well maintained roads, waterways and field
surroundings would reduce damage from rodents, pests and diseases. Vermin
would find it more difficult to find shelter, while parasites, diseases and
insects would be unable to find suitable host plants. The extension service
would instruct farmers to control rats by placing bait stations with effective
rodenticides, and together with the village leaders, would organize periodic
hunts. Methods are being developed under the Stage I Project. Adequate
chemicals are available for the control of most pests in the rice area. Early
recognition of damage, together with timely control would prevent serious
damage in most cases. Varieties resistant to the major diseases are now
generally available, and their exclusive use would be encouraged. If damage
does occur despite these measures, a nitrogen top dressing at panicle initia-
tion will often improve yields, provided adequate photosynthetic leaf area
remains on the plants.
5.12      Harvest and Drying.  Crops are currently harvested by sickle.
Bundles of rice with about half the straw attached are left to dry on the
stubble for a few days and then either threshed in the field if weather
conditions allow, or carried to the house and stacked for threshing. In
future much of the rice would be threshed by small mechanical threshers
almost immediately after cutting, and the grain would be transported by
tractor or buffalo cart to a drying floor near the house. With increased
rice production, farmers would construct more concrete drying floors near
their houses where they would dry the grain to below 15% moisture for safe
storage. On-farm storage would be encouraged to give the farmer a better
price bargaining position. Credit for drying floors and on-farm storage
would be available through cooperatives.
5.13      Secondary Crops.  Most crops would be grown on the higher-lying,
lighter soils and self-mulching clays. Soil preparation would include the
preparation of beds or running furrows. Seed would be planted in rows on
the beds or on top of the ridges, and the recommended rates of fertilizers
would be applied. Irrigation water would be applied through the system
of furrows, and adequate drainage would be assured. Harvest of all crops
would be by hand; some crops would be threshed mechanically and seed would be
sun-dried on suitable drying floors.
Crop Production
5.14      Based on the expected future cropping intensities and yield
improvements due to improved irrigation and drainage, land leveling, better
access and the use of adapted HYVs with the required inputs, the overall
paddy production in the Part A project area would increase from about 173,000
tons at present and 202,000 tons in future without the project to 375,000 tons
at full project development (Table 5.3).



Table 5.3: CROP PRODUCTION (PART A)
Boromdhart                 Koke Kathiem                    Samchook
Chanasutr                     Manorom                     Don Chedi                    Total Project
Without   With               Without   With                Without   With                Without   With
Present  Project  Project   Present  Project  Project   Present  Project  Project   Present  Project  Project
----------------------------------------------     --     '000   ton    ------------------------------------------------
Wet Season
Rice:  Broadcast             23.3      25.8     10.5       22.0      24.4     10.0        6.3      7.0       3.7       51.6     57.2      24.2
Local Transplant      25.5     28.6      26.2       12.7     14.3      16.8      29.0      33.1      22.1      67.2      76.0      65.2
HYV                    4.1      4.4      53.2        3.1      3.3      37.6       3.3       3.5      37.2      10.6      11.2    128.1
Subtotal          52.9     58.8      89.9      37.8      42.0      64.3      38.6      43.6      63.0     129.4    144.4    217.5
Dry Season
Rice:  HYV                   11.9      15.8     53.2        5.1       6.8     41.8       23.2     30.9      50.2       40.2      53.5    145.1
Soybean                       1.5       2.0      7.0        0 6       0.8      3.4        0.9       1.2      2.2        3.0       4.0     12.6
Subtotal          13.4     17.8      60.2       5.7       7.6      45.2      24.1      32.1      52.4      43.2      57.5    157.7
Total           66.3     76.6    150.1       53.5      49.6    109.5       62.7      75.7    115.4      172.6    201.9    375.2



- 5Z -
6. MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
Market Prospects
6.01      Over the past 15 years, domestic consumption of rice grew at
an average annual compound growth rate of 3.5% while production grew at
3.1%. Exports generally declined over the period, fluctuating between
2.1 and 0.9 million tons; Thailand's share of world rice exports fell
from over 20% in the early 1960s to less than 15% at present. In view
of projected increases in domestic and world market demand there will be
no problem in marketing the incremental 127,000 tons of milled rice pro-
duced in Part A of the project area plus the incremental production from
Parts B and C.
6.02      Farmers in the project area may sell their paddy to merchants
at the farm gate, private rice mills or cooperative rice mills. Transport
from farm gate to local mills is readily available and rates appear reason-
able and competitive. Most paddy produced in the project area is milled
locally; surplus production is sent to Bangkok by a well developed system
of canal, river, road and rail transport at competitive rates. Farmers
may also buy back part of their milled rice for home consumption from
either the merchants or millers. When farmers select this option, the
miller typically retains the bran and sometimes part of the white rice
as payment for milling. Although there is some scope for cheating because
farmers cannot verify the milling outturn, both milling and merchandizing
are competitive in Thailand, reducing the risk substantially.
6.03      It is expected that upland crops - mainly soybean - would be
sold in local markets. There should be little difficulty in disposing
of the increased output in view of the expected rising standard of living
in the project area.
Prices
6.04      The price structure for rice and paddy used in the financial and
economic analyses is presented in Tables 6.1 and 6.2. The present financial
farm gate price is based on prices prevailing in the project area in September
1976, updated to January 1977. The corresponding export price for rice fob
Bangkok is B 4,950 (US$243)/ton. The future export price is based on the Bank's
commodity price projections (Reference A-li) updated to a January 1977 price
level. The weighted average fob export price is US$340/ton and corresponds
to a financial farm gate price of B 3,160/ton of paddy, assuming no change in
the price structure. Prices are largely determined by market forces, though
government intervention, in the form of export and other taxes, depresses the
price received by the farmer.
6.05      The present and future economic prices were derived by taking
the same weighted average fob export prices as for the financial prices
and working back to the farm gate price, excluding all taxes and adjust-
ing all domestic costs by applying specific conversion factors to express
all values in terms of border prices expressed in domestic currency./l
/I See Chapter 9. For a detailed discussion of the underlying theory,
see Squire and van der Tak, Economic Analysis of Projects (Reference
A-12) and Bank Staff Working Paper No. 239 (Reference A-9).



- 5) -
Table 6.1: PRICE STRUCTURE OF RICE/PADDY
(Baht/ton)
Present /a                  Future /b
Financial   Economic       Financial   Economic
fob  Bangkok /c (US$)                   243          243           340         340
(Baht)              4,950        4,950         6,935       6,935
Rice premium /d                    620            -           865           -
Export duty /e                     245                        345
Municipal tax /f                    10            -            10           -
Exporter's margin -g               370          255           520         355
Ex-mill price of rice                 3,705        4,695         5,195       6,580
Ex-mill price of paddy /h             2,715        3,425         3,790       4,805
Milling tax /i                      65            -            95           -
Miller's margin Li                 205          150           285         205
Input price of paddy at mill,
Bangkok                         2,445        3,275          3,410      4,600
Merchant's margin /k               180          125           250         170
Farm gate price of paddy              2,265        3,150         3,160       4,430
/a   Prices and price structure as of January 1977.
/b   Based on current price structure and the Bank's commodity price projec-
tions (Reference A-ll), updated to January 1977.
/c   Weighted average fob price of nonglutinous rice assuming 67% is 5%
broken, 20% is grade A rice (10%, 15% and 20% broken) and 13% is grade C
rice (25%, 35% and 45% broken).
/d   Weighted average as in footnote c.  Current rates are B 700 on 5% broken
rice, B 500 on grade A and B 400 on grade C. It is assumed that the
rates will vary in real terms with the world market price.
/e   5% of fob price.
Ir   B 10/ton specific tax.
/g   10% of the ex-mill price of rice.  Assuming 75% of the margin covers
transport and handling costs and 25% goes to the exporter as profit, a
weighted average conversion factor of 0.687 was used to convert from
financial to economic price.
/h   Milling ratio of 66% plus the value of the bran and milling tax (equal
to 11% of the value of the rice).
/i   Officially 5% of the value of paddy output.  Due to considerable tax
evasion, the effective tax rate used here is 2.5%.
/J   The value of the bran, or 7.5% of the paddy output before tax.  The
conversion factor for milling is 0.72 to convert from financial to
economic price.
/k   Includes transport, handling costs and middleman's profit.  A conver-
sion factor of 0.687 has been used as in footnote g.



Table 6.2: BREAKDOWN OF EX-MILL VALUE OF PADDY /a
Output per                       Ex-mill value of       % of Total Value of
Ton Paddy/b   Ex-mill Prices   Output/Ton Paddy/c         Output/Ton Paddy
----(kg)---   ----(B/kg)----    -------(B)--------   --------(%)
Rice, 5% broken          440             4.1                  1,800                    66.3
Rice,  Grade A           133             3.0                    400                    14.7
Rice, Grade C             87             2.8                    245                     9.0
Total Rice             660              -                   2,445                    90.0
Bran, white               68             2.5                    170                     6.2
Bran, cargo               29             1.2                     35                     1.3
Total bran              97              -                     205                     7.6
Husk                     243              --                                             -
Total output /d          757                                  2,650                    97.6
Tax (2.5%) /e                                                  65                     2.4
Total ex-mill                                                 2,715                   100.0
/a As of January 1977.
/b Source: Bank of Thailand estimates.
/c Rounded to nearest 5 Baht.
/d Excluding husk which has no significant sale value.
/e Officially 5% of the value of paddy output. Due to considerable tax evasion, the
effective tax rate used here is 2.5%.



- 55 -
The resulting economic farm gate prices are B 3,150/ton of paddy at present
and B 4,430/ton (in terms of constant January 1977 prices) in 1980-85.
6.06      Financial and economic farm gate prices for other crops in the
project area as well as major inputs were computed in a similar manner
and are summarized in Table 6.3. Further details on the derivation of
these prices are presented in Working Paper No. C-19.
Table 6.3: FARM GATE PRICES OF INPUTS AND OUTPUTS
(Baht/ton)
Present                     Future
Financial   Economic        Financial   Economic
Crops
Paddy                 2,265        3,150          3,160       4,430
Soybean               3,900        4,400          3,900       4,400
Fertilizers
Ammophos              5,300        4,750           7,300       6,550
Urea                  5,000        4,500           6,300       5,600
Agrochemicals
Insecticide           8,000        7,370          8,000       7,370
Rodenticide         120,000      110,580        120,000    110,580
Herbicide            60,000       55,290          60,000     55,290
Seeds
Paddy-local           2,265        3,150          3,160       4,430
Paddy-HYV             2,400        3,150          3,300       4,430
Soybean               3,900        4,400          4,700       4,400



- 56 
7. CROP AND FARM BUDGETS
7.01      Crop and farm budgets have been prepared for Part A of the project
only. Present and proposed cropping patterns and agricultural practices are
discussed in Chapters 2 and 5, respectively. This chapter gives the basis
for the calculation of financial and economic production costs, and examines
the financial impact of the project on individual farms. Crop and farm
budgets were not computed for Part B as the present income levels of the
beneficiaries would be similar to those computed for Part A and the incremental
costs and returns attributable to the project would be relatively modest and
difficult to quantify for individual farms. Moreover, as Part B beneficiaries
would not contribute to the repayment of capital costs, the question of
repayment capability does not arise.
7.02      Physical quantities of inputs per ha for each crop at present and
in future with and without the project are presented in Table 7.1. Levels of
inputs would increase substantially following increased use of high-yielding
varieties under improved conditions of water management. Future input levels
are based on those currently used by progressive farmers in improved parts of
the Stage I area and on research results adjusted for farm conditions.
Per hectare financial crop budgets based on these quantities and prices from
Table 6.3 are presented in Table 7.2. In addition to seeds, fertilizers and
agrochemicals, other cash inputs include mechanical land preparation, threshing
and on-farm transport costs. Future costs for these items would be higher
due to more careful land preparation, and larger threshing and transport
requirements for a higher yielding crop.
7.03      Farm labor requirements would be substantially higher with the
project as shown in Table 7.3. In the future, broadcast crops would require
improved management, particularly hand weeding and water control. Transplanted
local varieties would also require better crop management and pest control,
plus more labor for harvesting, threshing and transport of a higher yielding
crop. In addition to these requirements, high yielding varieties would need
greater management attention, particularly pest control, top dressing with
nitrogen fertilizer and improved water management. With the project, soybeans
would need better soil preparation, weeding and pest control, most of which
are labor intensive operations.
7.04      Five farm models, chosen to represent the farm size distribution
in the project area, have been analyzed to examine the implications of the
project for income distribution. Although farm size is not perfectly cor-
related with income, it is the best available proxy. The results have been
used to evaluate the Government's proposed water charge policy in terms of
beneficiaries' ability to pay (Chapter 8). In addition, cash flow projections
have been made for each farm model to ensure that the proposed repayment terms
for the cost of on-farm development are reasonable, and would not place an
undue burden on project farmers during the early years of the project. Farm
budgets for the present and future with project situations for all five farm
models are summarized in Table 7.4, while a sample cash flow projection for
the average size farm (2.3 ha) is presented in Table 7.5. All model farms



- 57 -
are assumed to include some land suitable for intensive on-farm development
and some suitable only for more extensive development, with larger farms
having a higher proportion of extensive area, as shown by surveys in the
project area. The economic viability of developing the intensive and
extensive parts of the area separately is evaluated in Chapter 9. From the
tables, it can be seen that farm incomes would more than double as a result of
the project, even after deducting project charges. Thus the beneficiaries of
Part A would have a more than adequate incentive to participate in the project.



- 58 -
Table 7.1:  CROP INPUTS
Extensive Area                       Intensive Area
Wet Season                 Wet Season                   Dry Season_
Rice     Rice       Rice       Rice      Rice       Rice    Soybean
Broadcast    LT /a  Broadcast    LT           HYV        HYV
Present
Yield (ton/ha)                           1.6       2.0         2.1       2.4       2.8        2.7        1.0
Seed requirement (kg/ha)               125.0      63.0       125.0      63.0      63.0       63.0       63.0
Fertilizer requirement (kg/ha)
Ammophos                                -         -           -         -      23.4        23.4         -
Urea                                    -         -           -         -        8.5        8.5         -
Agrochemicals (kg/10 ha)
Insecticide                             -         -           -         -        -           -          -
Herbicide                               -         -           -         -         -          -          -
Rodenticide                             -         -           -         -         -          _          _
Other
Land preparation (B/ha)              525.0    573.0       573.0    688.0    688.0        688.0       716.0
Thresh/trans. (B/ha)                    -         -           -         -      38.0        38.0
Future without project
Yield (ton/ha)                           1.8       2.5         2.1       2.7       3.0        3.6        1.3
Seed requirement (kg/ha)               125.0      63.0       125.0      63.0      63.0       63.0       60.0
Fertilizer requirement (kg/ha)
Ammophos                                -         -           -         -       30.0      50.0        20.0
Urea                                    -         -           -         -       20.0       26.0         -
Agrochemicals (kg/10 ha)
Insecticide                             -      50.0           -      50.0    100.0       100.0        40.0
Herbicide                               -         -
Rodenticide                             -         -           -         -        0.5        0.5         -
Other
Land preparation (B/ha)              525.0    573.0        573.0    688.0    688.0       688.0       716.0
Thresh/trans. (B/ha)                  38.0      57.0        57.0      67.0     67.0        67.0       19.0
Future with project
Yield (ton/ha)                           2.0       3.0         2.5       3.5       4.0        4.4        1.8
Seed requirement (kg/ha)               100.0      63.0       100.0      50.0      38.0       38.0       45.0
Fertilizer requirement (kg/ha)
Ammophos                                -       50.0          -      100.0    100.0       100.0      100.0
Urea                                    -       50.0          -       52.0    117.0       139.0        0.0
Agrochemicals (kg/10 ha)
Insecticide                             -     100.0           -     100.0    200.0       200.0       80.0
Herbicide                               -       10.0          -       10.0      15.0       15.0        0.0
Rodenticide                             -        1.0          -        1.0       1.0        1.0        1.0
Other
Land preparation (B/ha)              525.0    573.0        573.0    688.0  1,002.0   1,002.0         907.0
Thresh/trans. (B/ha)                  76.0      95.0        95.0    105.0    133.0        133.0       38.0
/a Local transplant.



Table 7.2: FINANCIAL CROP BUDGETS
Gross                       Input cost                                  Net      Labor
Crop                 Yield   Price       Value      Seed   Fertilizer   Agrocnemicals   Other   Total    Value             Req.
(ton/ha) ------------------------------------- (B/ha) ---------                                       (Days)
Present
Wet season
Extensive area - Rice broadcast                 1.6      2,265      3,624      283        -                -            525       808    2,816        31
Rice local transplant        2.0      2,265      4,530      143        -                -            573       716    3,814        71
Intensive area - Rice broadcast                 2.1      2,265      4,756      283        -                -            573       856     3,900       31
Rice local transplant        2.4      2,265      5,436      143        -                -            688       831    4,605        71
Rice HYV                     2.8      2,265      6,342      151       166               -            726     1,044    5,298         74
Dry season         - Rice HYV                     2.7      2,2b5      6,116       151       166               -           726     1,044    5,072         77
Soybean                      1.0      3,900      3,900      234        -                -            716       950    2,950        45
Future without project
Wet season
Extensive area - Rice broadcast                 1.8      3,160      5,688      395        -                -            563       958    4,730         31
Rice local transplant        2.5      3,160      7,900       199       -                 40          630       869     7,031        77
Intensive area - Rice broadcast                 2.3      3,160      7,268      395        -                -            630     1,025    6,243         31
Rice local transplant        2.7      3,160      8,532       199       -                 40          755       994    7,538         77
Rice HYV                     3.0      3,160      9,480      208       345                86          755    1,394    8,086          78
Dry season         - Rice HYV                     3.6      3,160     11,376       208       529               86           755     1,578    9,798        88
Soybean                      1.3      3,900      5,070      282       146                32          735     1,195    3,875         59
Future with project
Wet season
Extensive area - Rice broadcast                 2.0      3,160      6,320       316        -                -           601        917    5,058        36
Rice local transplant        3.0      3,160      9,480       199       680              152          668     1,699      7,781       88
Intensive area - Rice broadcast                 2.5      3,160      7,900       316        -                -           668        984    6,516        36
Rice local transplant        3.5      3,160     11,060       158    1,058               152          793    2,161       8,899       88
Rice HYV                     4.0      3,160    12,640        125    1,467               262        1,135      2,990    9,650        91
Dry season         - Rice HYV                     4.4      3,160      13,904      126    1,606               262         1,135     3,128    10,776       )04
Soybean                      1.8      3,900      7,020       212       730               76          945     1,962    5,058         91



Table 7.3:  MONTHLY FARtl LABOR REQUIREMENTS
(man-days/ha)
Jan    Feb    Mar        Apr      May     June    July   Aug       Sept   Oct       Nov     Dec      Total
CROP /a
Wet season
Extensive area
Rice - Broadcast              P         20        7       -        3        1           -       -        -       -            -       -        31
FWO      20       7        -        3        1       -       -       -        -       -        -       -       31
FW       20       7        -        3        1       1       1        1       1       1       -        -       36
Local transplant   P             2       -       -        11      25        7       -       1       -        -      15       10       71
FWO       2       -        -       12      25       11       1        1       -       -       15      10        77
FW        2       -        -       10      26       21       2        2       -       -       15      10        88
Intensive area
Rice - Broadcast               P        20        7       -        3        1       -       -        -       -       -        -       -        31                           
FWO      20       7        -        3        1       -       -       -        -       -        -       -        31
FW       20       7        -        3        1       1       1        1       1       1        -       -        36
Local transplant    p            2       -       -        11      25        7       -        I      -        -      15       10        71
FWO       2       -        -       12      25       11       1        1       -       -       15      10        77
FW        2       -        -       10       26      21       2        2       -       -       15      10        88
HYV                   p          3       -       -         -      12       20      14        1      -        -       12      12        74
FWO       3       -        -        -       12      20      16        2       -       -       12      13        78
FW        2       -        -        -        -       -      10       26      21       2       17      13        91
Dry season
Intensive area
Rice - HYV                    P         13      26       11        -        -      20        7       -       -       -        -       -        77
FWO      14      27       18        -        -      22        7       -       -       -        -        -       88
FW       14       28      29         1      10      18        4       -       -        -       -        -      104
Soybean               p          5       5       10        4        2      19       -        -       -       -        -       -        45
FWO       6       10      14        5        2      22       -        -       -        -       -        -       59
FW       12       12      23        6       10      28        -       -       -        -       -        -       91
/a P = Present
FWO = Future without project
FW   Future with project



Table 7.4: FARM BUDGETS
0,5 ha                 1.3 ha                 2.3 ha                 4.5 ha                  8.4 ha
Farm size                                               Present   Future       Present   Future       Present   Future        Present   Future       Present   Future
- --   --------     -----------       Cropping intensity (4)    ------------ ------           -----
Extensive area
Broadcast rice (wet                                     -          -5                     5          10         10           15         15          20          20
Local transplant rice (wet)                             -          -           5          5          15          15          15         15          15          15
Intensive area
Broadcast rice (wet                                     15          -          20          5           20          5          20          5           20          5
Local transplant rice (wet)                             65         20          55         20           42         20          40         20           35         20
HYV rice (wet)                                          11         80          10         65            8         50           5         45            4         40
HYV rice (dry)                                          35         60          30         58           27         56          26         56           24         54
Soybean                                                  8         15           6         14            5         13           5         12            4         12
Total                                            134        175          131        172         127        169          126        168         122        166
Total cropped area (ha)                                       0.7        0.9         1.7        2.2         2.9         3.9         5.7        7.6         10.2       13.9
Total farm  labor requirement  (man-days)                    45         83         109        205         181        349          341        666         b98      1,204
-    ------ - -- -----------------------   Farm Income (B)   ----------------------------------
Gross value of production /a                             3,700      10,860       9,170    31,360       15,240     45,260      28,890      87,390      51,700    157,080
Cash production costs excluding labor /b                   680      2,500        1,690      6,030       2,820      9,950       5,350      18,890       9,660     34,040
Cost of hired labor /c                                     -           -           -          -           -          -            -          850       1,890      9,580
Interest on production credit /d                            110        120         270        290         450        480          850        910       1,540      1,b30
Net value of production                                  2,910      8,240        7,210    25,040       11,970     34,830      22,b90      66,740      38,610    111,830
Livestock income                                            800        800       1,600      1,600       1,600      1,600        1,600      1,600       1,300       1,300
Other net income                                         2,200       2,200       2,100      2,100       2,000      2,000        1,800      1,800       4,100       4,100        c
Net farm income before taxes and project charges    5,910           11,240      10,910    28,740       15,570     38,430      26,090      70,140      44,010    117,230
Project charges
Main system O&M cost /e                                  -           120         -          320         -           580         -        1,120         -         2,100
On-farm O&M cost /f                                      -            40         -          100         -           160         -          310         -           550
On-farm development cost /g                              -           740         -        1,830         -        2,990          -        5,690         -        10,340
Taxes                                                        20         20          40         40           70         70         140        140          260        260
Net farm income after taxes and project charges           5,890     10,320      10,870    26,450       15,500    34,630        25,950     62,880       43,750    103,980
* Rounded to nearest B 10.
/a  Based on Tables 7.1 and 6.3.
/b  Based on Table 7.2.
/c  Based on a maximun of 62.5 man-days/month of family labor for 0.5, 1.3 and 2.3 ha farms and 75 man-days/month for 4.5 and 8.4 ha farms.  Hired labor
was priced at the market wage rate which varies from B 20/man-day in slack months to B 25/man-day in peak season months.  Monthly labor requirements
are from Table 7.3.
/d  Present:  15% of production costs E 1% per month (from BAAC) for 6 months and 50% of production costs 8 5% per month (from non-institutional sources)
for 6 months.
Future: 80% of production costs @ 1% per month (from BAAC) for 6 months.
/e  B 250/ha.
/f  B 80/ha for intensive areas and B 40/ha for extensive areas.
An equal sum amortization over 13 years beginning in year 3 on 50% of development cost (weighted average of extensive ( B 6,760/ha and intensive
P B 13,225/ha) at 12% annual interest with interest capitalized during 2-year grace period.



Table 7.5: CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS FOR 2.3 HA FARM
(Baht)
Pre-                              Year
Project     1         2        3        4       5-15     16-30
Gross value of production        15,240   8,690   20,040   30,850   38,050   45,260   45,260
Cash production costs             2,820   1,890    4,960    7,100    8,530    9,950    9,950
Interest on production credit       450     310       680       640      490       480       480
Net value of production          11,970   6,490   14,400   23,110   29,030   34,830   34,830
Livestock income                  1,600   1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600
Other net income                  2,000   2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000
Net farm income before taxes
and project charges           15,570  10,090   18,000   26,710   32,630   38,430   38,430
Land tax                             70       70       70        70        70       70        70
Project charges
Main system O&M cost              -       580       580       580      580       580       580
On-farm O&M cost                  -       160       160       160      160       160       160
On-farm development cost          -         -         -    2,990    2,990    2,990         -
Net farm income after taxes
and project charges          15,500   9,280   17,190   22,910   28,830   34,630   37,620
Incremental net farm income
after taxes and project
charges                               -6,220    1,690    7,410   13,330   19,130   22,120
* Rounded to nearest B 10.  See Table 7.4 for explanation of rows.



- 63 -
8. RENT AND COST RECOVERY
Introduction
8.01      The extent to which project farmers should contribute fundF to
cover project outlays (capital plus O&M costs) depends upon their ability to
pay, their position on the national income scale and the state of public sector
finances. Currently, the budgetary situation is tight in Thailand, and it is
assumed that, subject to political and practical realities, project beneficiaries
should pay for the benefits they receive from the project according to their
ability to pay, as measured by their economic rent, taking account of income
distribution. In this chapter, ability to pay is first discuissed. Proposed
project charges are then discussed in relation to ability and willingness to
pay, and to project costs.
8.02      In determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of project
charges to benefits, two indices have been used which are defined as follows:
(a)  Rent Recovery Index:  The ratio of incremental project charges to
"project rent" before paying water charges, where project rent is
defined as incremental net farm income less the incremental returns
to capital, family labor, farm management, depreciation on farm
equipment and an allowance for risk and uncertainty. The rent
recovery index is defined both for individual farm models and for
the project as a whole.
(b) Cost Recovery Index: The ratio of revenues from incremental project
charges paid by all direct project beneficiaries to project construction
and incremental operation and maintenance costs. The cost recovery
index is defined for the entire project only.
8.03      Table 8.1 presents the rent and cost recovery indices for Part A of
the project and the basis of their calculation. All figures are in terms of
January 1977 constant prices and in present values, discounted at the oppor.unity
cost of capital in Thailand of 15% over the period of payment.
Ability to Pay
8.04      While farm size may not be well correlated with income, it does provide
some indication of differential rents in the project area and hence is used in
Table 8.1. for defining five classes of model farms. These models range from
0.5 ha to 8.4 ha and are based on the farm size distribution in the project area
(Table 2.1). The imputed values used in the table represent the best judgment
of the returns to farm capital and equipment, family labor and management, and
an allowance for risk and uncertainty, which together would be needed to induce
farmers to participate in the project. The risk aversion allowance is relatively
low (average 12% of net farm income) because the project would reduce risk and
uncertainty by ensuring adequate supplies of water, particularly in the dry
season. On the grounds that smaller farmers are more risk averse than larger



Table 8.1.  RENT AND COST RECOVERY la
Farm mokdel                                             0.5 ha          1.3 ha         2.3 na          4.5 ha         8.4 ha         Total
(% of holdings)                                             (10%)          (30%)          (36%)           (20x)            (4%)        Project
- ------------------------^ (Baht) -------___________________    (B million)
Incremental gross value of production /b                                27,910         66,640          110,070        230,040         416,150        3,052
Less:  Incremental cash production costs                               7,130         17,090           28,510         56,820         127,010          795
Equals:  Incremental net cash income                                    20,780         49,550           81,560         173,220        289,140        2,257
Less:  Incremental - imputed return on own capital /c                    210            510              860           1,700          3,810            4
- imputed value of family labor /d                3,320          8,430           13,960         25,570          24,210          341
- imputed value of management /e                  2,790          9,090           11,010         34,510          62,420          399
- depreciation on farm equipment /f                 900          2,330            4,130          8,080          30,170          125
- allowance for risk and uncertainty /g           4,190          6,820           11,010         17,250          20,810          261
Equals:  Project rent                                                    9,370         22,370           40,590          8b,110        147,720        1,127
Project rent as % of incremental net cash income (%)              45              45              50              50              51          50
Incremental project charges
- main system O&M cost /h                           700          1,870            3,390           6,550         12,280           89
- on-farm O&M cost /i                               230            580              940           1,810          3,220           2S
- on-farm development cost  j                     3,120          7,720           12,620         24,020          43,650          335
Subtotal                                  4,050         10,170           16,950          32,380         59,150          449
Rent recovery index /k (%)                                        43              45               42             38              40          40
Project costs (capital and recurrent)                                                                                                        792
Cost recovery index /1 (%)                                                                                                                    57
Farm income per capita at full development (1984) /m           1,840          4,900            6,180          11,230          18,570       6,870
Estimated critical consumption level in 1984 /n                                                                                            4,900
/a  All calculations are in January 1977 financial prices and in present values, discounted over the 15-year repayment period at
the opportunity cost of capital in Thailand of 15% and rounded to the nearest B 10.
/b  Incremental values are the difference between without and with project conditions, based on Tables 7.4, 7.5 and Working Paper C-21.
Incremental gross value of production is net of incremental production taxes such as the rice premium.
/c  Assuming 20% of production costs are met from farmers' own resources, an allowance of 15% return on capital is made.
/d  Incremental labor requirements less incremental hired labor valued at the market wage of B 25/man-day.
/e  10% of incremental gross value of production for farms 2.3 ha or less and 15% for larger farms.
if  10% of the original value of a 10-12 hp tractor (B 40,000) per year for the 8.4 ha farm and half this amount per ha for smaller farms.
/g Assuming smaller farms have higher risk aversion, the allowance ranges from 15% of incremental gross value of production for the
0.5 ha farm to 5% for the 8.4 ha farm.
/h  B 250/ha.
/i  B 80/ha for intensive development and B 40/ha for extensive development.
1,  An equal sum amortization over 13 years beginning in year 3 on 50% of development cost (weighted average of extensive @ B 6,760/ha
and intensive Q B 13,225/ha) at 12% annual interest with interest capitalized during the 2-year grace period; assumes zero inflation.
/k  Total project charges as % of project rent; assumes no inflation.
/1  Total project charges as % of public sector outlays; assumes no inflation.
/m  Future net farm income after taxes and project charges from Table 7.4, using the average farm family size of 5.6.
/n  Critical consumption level has been computed as follows (for explanation of terminology see Squire and van der Tak (Reference A-Il)
and Bank Staff Working Paper No. 239 (Reference A-9).
Social value of public income (v)                               1.350
Conversion factor for consumption (Bc)                         0.963
Distribution weight at the critical
consumption level:  d = vBc                                  1.300
National average private consumption level at full
development (1984, at January 1977 prices), c              B 6,400
Critical consumption level: c* = c/d                         B 4,900



- 65 -
farmers, this allowance has been varied from 15% for the 0.5 ha farm model to
5% for the 8.4 ha model. By contrast, larger farmers would require a higher
return to their management skills in situations using more cash inputs and
hired labor on a larger, generally non-contiguous area. The imputed value of
farm management therefore increases from 10% for smaller to 15% for larger
farms.
8.05      Since the project rent for each farm size is roughly half of the net
cash income, there is considerable scope for and ability to pay direct charges
in order to capture part of the benefits received./I In designing such
charges, the rates should ideally be progressive with wealthier farmers paying
a higher percentage of the project cost. Steeply progressive changes are not
considered a practical option in Thailand at the present time, particularly
since water charges of any kind have yet to be collected on national irrigation
systems. However, the Government is considering incorporating a degree of
progressivity in the detailed formulation of the proposed charges (para 8.07).
Proposed Project Charges
8.06      Due to a growing consensus in Thailand that intensive forms of agricul-
tural development should not be undertaken at public expense without appropriate
cost recovery measures, the Government has decided to adopt a system of project
charges to be applied initially to areas receiving on-farm development, that is,
Part A of the project.
8.07      Based on agro-economic surveys of the Part A project area and studies
carried out by MOAC pursuant to the Credit Agreement for the Stage I project
(para. 8.13-8.15), the Government has proposed that approximately 10% of the
actual cost of common facilities plus the full cost of land leveling would be
recovered from the beneficiaries, with appropriate repayment and grace periods
and interest rates. For intensively developed areas, this formula is equivalent
to the recovery of 50% of the total cost of on-farm development. The Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) would serve as the Government's
collection agent. An assurance has been obtained that the Government would
recover from the beneficiaries of Part A of the project amounts equivalent, on
average, to 50% of the actual cost of on-farm development, such amounts to be
recovered over a period of not more than 15 years with interest at not less
than 12% and with appropriate grace periods; and would make arrangements
acceptable to the Bank, before December 31, 1977, for the collection by BAAC
or other institutions acceptable to the Bank of such amounts. The farm budget
analysis (Chapter 7) shows that these terms with a two-year grace period
would be within farmers' ability to pay, and would not cause undue hardship
during the early years of the project. The annual payment beginning in year
three would range from B 660 (US$32)/ha for extensive on-farm development to
B 1,290 (US$63)/ha for intensive development.
/1 Indirect charges or general taxes are already accounted for in the rent
recovery analysis since the incremental gross value of production is
calculated net of incremental export and milling taxes.



- 66 -
8.08        ~--ieral irrigation charge, to apply eventually to all irrigated
areas in Tiaand, would be introduced in Parts A, B and the Stage I project
areas. For fiscal (but not economic) reasons, it is proposed that annual
collections under this charge would approximate annual expenditures on the
O&2.l of irrigation systems. There is no agreement yet on the appropriate
form of O&M charge. One possibility would be an amendment to the State Irriga-
tion Act to bring charges into line with present day costs.  Another proposal
would form part of the revised scale of land taxes now being considered by
the Ministry of Finance.  Given the realistic system of land value assessment
which exists in Thailand, an ad valorem tax on land would be one of the more
equitable ways of capturing part of the project benefits. A tax rate of at
least 1% of land value would be required. Other variants would be a surtax
on the land tax in irrigated areas or a production tax on agricultural output.
In the more distant future, volumetric measurement of water deliveries to groups
of farmers might provide the most equitable and efficient form of charge. Under
the two most likely possibilities, a land tax would be collected by the Revenue
Department while an irrigation charge would be collected by RID. For the Parts A
and B project areas, the amount of such a charge would be about B 250 (US$12)/ha
for all beneficiaries.
8.09      Aside from the general irrigation charge there would also be an
annual charge imposed and collected by the Water Users' Associations (para 4.16)
to cover the cost of operating and maintaining the on-farm works. The amount
of this charge would vary from the equivalent of about B 40 (US$2)/ha for exten-
sive on-farm development to B 80 (US$4)/ha for intensive development and would
probably be collected in kind or in volunteer labor. An assurance has been
obtained that, before December 31, 1978, the Government would introduce an
annual charge of not less than the average cost of operating and maintaining
the irrigation and drainage systems, including on-farm development works, in
the project area, and would, promptly following the introduction of such
charges, impose and collect them from the beneficiaries of Parts A and B of
the present project, as well as the Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project I.
It is likely that such charges would apply throughout Thailand.
Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
8.10      For Part A of the project as a whole, the rent recovery index would
be about 40%. The computed values of the index vary slightly for farms of
different sizes, but the proposed charges are essentially uniform, with all
farms paying about 40% of individual project rents.
8.11      In the cost recovery analysis, the present value of construction and
incremental O&M costs for Part A of the project at the opportunity cost of
capital of 15% amounts to B 792 million. The present value of total direct
project charges would be B 449 million, giving a cost recovery index of 57%,
before taking account of inflation. Although the two O&M charges would
essentially be indexed for inflation to cover the actual cost of operating and
maintaining the main and on-farm systems, it is expected that the repayment of
on-farm development costs would be fixed in nominal terms, so that the real
cost recovery index would fall with higher rates of inflation. For example,
if the future rate of inflation in Thailand is 5%, the cost recovery index
would be 42%, and if it is 10%, the index would be 35%.



- 67
Fiscal Impact
8.12      In addition to direct project charges, beneficiarie,s If part A 'ff
the project would also pay a number of indirect taxes which have implicitly
been deducted from the gross value of production in computing the denominator
of the rent recovery index.  These include the rice premium (eat 2ted Rt
B 865/ton at full project development), export duty (B 345/ton)  smunici-pal taax
(B 10/ton) and milling tax (B 95/ton of paddy). Although the -i-ce premilim and
export duty are levied on only that part of production (about 15%) which is
exported, these taxes act to depress the price of all rice and paddy in Thailand
and serve to subsidize all rice consumers (including paddy farmers who buy all
or part of their own consumption needs after harvesting). Given the Government's
social objectives and policies, it is assumed that direct budgeta-, exp;.4iture
would be made in the absence of the hidden subsidy, so that the enc.re -alue
of the rice premium and export duty should be treated as a net fiscal gain.
The present value of incremental indirect taxes paid by project beneficiaries
over the 15-year repayment period at 15% interest would be B 494 m-illion wq4ich,
added to the B 449 million present value of direct charges, would give a total
cost recovery index of 119%.
Willingness to Pay
8.13      During appraisal, surveys were made to test the willingness of farmers
to pay reasonable levels of project charges (Reference C-15). These surveys
indicated that a majority of the farmers were willing to pay charges of similar
amounts and with similar repayment terms as those under discussion. While the
replies do not by themselves measure the beneficiaries' true willingness to pay,
the realism of the replies and the commercial attitude of the farmers indicate
that if the charges are properly explained and uniformly applied, they shouid be
acceptable to the farmers.
8.14      Two other studies support the above conclusions.  The f.rst is the
Cost Recovery Study carried out by MOAC pursuant to the Credit Agreement for the
Stage I Project.  This study examined ability to pay, as measured both hy net
income at full development and incremental income as a result of the project.
It did not make an explicit calculation of project rent. It did, however,
make some useful sensitivity calculations which show that ability to repay is
especially sensitive to the price of rice (and, hence, to taxes on rice produc-
tion).  The study concluded that farmers should be required to repay 35% of the
cost of common facilities (ditches, drains and roads) plus the full cost of land
leveling and O&M, with a repayment period of 25 years and an interest race of
not more than 12%. As land leveling accounts for about one-third ot the cost of
intensive on-farm development, this formula is approximately equivalent to the
proposed charges.
8.15      Another detailed cost recovery study was carried out as part of
the feasibility study for Part A (Reference B-1). This study calctlates project
rent, making slightly different assumptions to the above analysis in estimating
the returns to other factors of production. The study recommends that charges
should be flexible depending on yields and prices, and that the smallest farmers
should be exempt. Numerically, the results of the study are similar
to those presented in Table 8.1.



- 68 -
9. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
9.01      The following analysis focuses on Part A of the project, since this
component accounts for 65% of total project cost, has the highest investment
costs per ha (US$835 plus price contingencies) and per family (US$2,160 plus
price contingencies), is the most critical in terms of cost recovery and
fiscal impact, and is the only part of the project for which benefits could be
fully quantified. Details are available in Reference C-19. Rehabilitation
works under Part B and service road construction under Part C are discussed at
the end of the Chapter.
Part A - Rehabilitation and On-Farm Development
9.02      The proposed project would increase yields and cropping intensity
on about 63,000 ha in the Northern Chao Phya area by providing better water
control, improved drainage, farm access roads, land leveling and boundary
realignment where required, and by ensuring the existence of the necessary
agricultural supporting services. The project would take advantage of substan-
tial sunk costs from investments over the past 25 years in diversion and
storage dams and the main water distribution and drainage system. Rice would
be the main crop grown in the area, plus a small amount of irrigated upland
crops like soybean in the dry season. Approximately 24,400 farm families and
another 2,000 families of landless laborers would benefit directly from
increased production and employment opportunities.
9.03      Benefits.  Expected future yields and production with and without the
project are discussed in Chapter 5. Chapter 6 presents the farm gate prices for
inputs and outputs, based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts and conditions
in the project area. Gross returns, production costs, net returns (without
accounting for labor costs) and labor requirements per ha are given in Chapter 7e
Figure 5.1 shows the proposed cropping calendar. Table 9.1 summarizes the
foregoing information and gives the expected benefits at full agricultural
development for the entire project area.
9.04      Foreign Exchange.  The common unit of account used in the economic
analysis is uncommitted public income measured at border prices. Because of
import taxes and quantitative restrictions, the official exchange rate understates
the value to the economy of foreign exchange used in carrying out the project and
earned from larger rice exports, relative to the value of domestic resources. For
this reason specific conversion factors for a number of broad categories of goods
and services produced or consumed by the project have been computed and used to
express all values in terms of the common unit of account. These conversion
factors range from 0.65 for Government services to 1.01 for draft animals. The
corresponding standard conversion factor for Thailand, based on a weighted average
of all imports and exports, has been estimated as 0.79. Table 9.2 presents a
summary list of the standard and specific conversion factors used in converting
from domestic to border prices, as well as other national parameters used in the
economic analysis.



Table 9.    NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION AT FULL DEVELOPIENT - TOTAL PART A PROJECT AREA
Gross                      Net Value of        Imputed        Net Value of
Farm gate   Value of   Production   Production in             Labor      Production After
Area /a    Yield /b   Production         Price /c  Production        Costs /d   Project Area /e    Cost /f            Labor Cost
Crop                                ('000 ha)    (ton/ha)      ('000 ton)       (B/ton)   -------------------------(B million)------ ------ - ------------------
(1)         (2)       (3) - (l)x(2)        (4)    (5) - (3)x(4)       (6)       (7) - (5)-(6)          (8)         (9) _ (7)-(d)
Wet Season
Extensive Area
Paddy - Broadcast            FWOg 14.0        1.8           25.2          4,430         111.8         13.5            98.3
FW      7.0       2.0          14.0           4,430          61.9         6.4            55.5
- Local Transplant  FWO       2.0       2.5            5.0           4,430         22.2          1.7            20.S
FW      9.0       3.0          27.0           4,430         119.4        1J.3           104.1
Intensive Area
Paddy - Broadcast            fWO   13.9        2.3           31.9           4,430        141.5         15.0           126.5
FW     4.1        2.5          10.2           4,430          45.4         4.1            41.3
- Local Transplant  FWO   26.3          2.7           71.1           4,430        314.8         26.2           288.6
FW    10.9        3.5          38.2           4,430         169.1        23.5            145.6
- HYV                 FWO    3.8        3.0           11.3           4,430          50.1         5.2            44.9
FW    32.0        4.0         128.1           4,430         567.4        95.8           471.6
Dry Season
Intensive Area
Paddy - HYV                  FWO   14.9        3.6           53.6           4,430        237.3         23.5           213.8
FW    33.0        4.4         145.1           4,430         643.0        103.2           539.8
Soybean                      FWO     3.0       1.3            3.9           4,400         17.1          3.5            13.6
FW      7.0       1.8           12.6          4,400          55.5         13.7            41.8
Total                             FWO   77.9                    202.0                         894.7                        806.1             40.2               765.9
FW   103.0                    375.2                       1,661.7                      1,399.7             83.7            1,31b.0
(Cropping Intensity - %)         FWO (124)
FW  (163)
/a  From Table 5.1.
/b  From Table 5.2.
/c  From Table 6.3, economic prices.
/d  Based on Table 7.1, using economic prices, excluldes labor cost.
/e  Without accounting for labor cost.
/f  Based on Table 9.3, converting domestic prices to border prices by tne conversion factor tor consuimption of 0.96.
The economic cost of incremental labor is B 10.5 x (.9b = B 1U.1 per man-day.
La  FWO   Future without project.
FW = Future with project.



- 70 -
Table 9.2: A SUMMARY LIST OF NATIONAL PARAMETERS /a
Standard conversion factor /a                                               0.79
Conversion factor for - Consumption                                         0.96
- Middleman's margin                                0.69 /b
- Fertilizer                                        0.92
- Insecticide                                       0.88
- Construction                                      0.74
- Government services                               0.65
- Milling margin                                    0.72 /c
- Agricultural machinery                            0.88
- Draft animals                                     1.01
Economic accounting rate of interest (EARI)                                 0.118
Per capita private consumption, estimated 1984                           B 6,400
/a The common unit of account is uncommitted public income measured at
border prices.
/b Weighted average of conversion factors for trade (0.47) and
transport (0.76), assuming middleman's profit accounts for 25%
and transport/handling costs account for 75% of his margin.
/c Weighted average of conversion factors for industry (0.80) and
trade, assuming milling cost accounts for 75% and profit accounts
for 25% of the miller's margin.



- 71 -
9.05      Project Costs.   The total investment cost, expressed in January
1977 economic prices, is US$38.1 million, including physical but not price
contingencies. Annual O&M costs of US$12/ha for the main system and US$2-4/ha
for the on-farm systems have also been included.  As the existence of the Na-
tional Extension Project has been allowed for in the "future withDut project"
case, no incremental extension costs have been allowed for.
9.06      Development Period.  According to the project implementation schedule,
some of the on-farm development would be finished by mid-1978 and all works
would be completed by mid-1982, in time for the 1982 wet season crop. It is
assumed that farmers in the areas to be intensively developed wouild lose one
dry season crop while their farms are being leveled, which results itn negative
net benefits for the first three years for the whole area. On average, individ-
ual farms would reach full development in year five (Table 7.5); for the
project area as a whole, full development is expected to be reached in year
eight, or 1984.
9.07      Economic Cost of Farm Labor.  There are an estimated 24,400 farm
families in the project area, with an average family size of 5.6, giving a
total farm family population of about 137,000. In addition, there are about
2,000 landless families (11,000 persons) plus an indeterminate nonfarming
rural population. With an average number of 2.5 full-time workers on farms
below 3 ha and 3.0 on larger farms, the total farm family labor force available
in the project area is about 64,000. Adding landless laborers increases the
total to 68,000. On the basis of 24 days per worker per month, the total
labor supply is now about 1.7 million man-days per month and 20.4 million
man-days per year. Assuming population growth in the area at 2.5% per year,
the labor supply at full project development in year eight would be 2.1
million man-days per month and 25 million man-days per year.
9.08      Table 9.3 gives estimates of total monthly labor requirements in
the project area. The present annual requirement is some 4.4 million man-days,
or just over 20% of the estimated supply. Labor demand also has a pronounced
seasonal pattern; peak monthly demands occur in January and May/June, and more
than half the yearly total is taken up by these three months. Even then,
however, labor demand reaches less than half the available supply and there is
serious underemployment. In the dry season, open unemployment is the rule.
Without the project, the future labor situation would be even worse due to
population growth. With the project at full development, the annual labor
requirement would be about 9.1 million man-days, or about 90% higher than
without the project. Most of the additional labor would be needed for the dry
season crop and hence would increase employment in periods when it otherwise
would be lowest.
9.09      Although there is currently some variation in wage rates, market
wages do not fully reflect the varying demand and severe underemployment in the
project area because of imperfections in the labor market and because of the
influence of a statutory minimum wage - currently fixed at B 25 per day. For
these reasons, observed market wage rates are likely to be higher than the
economic cost of labor, which is the marginal product of labor measured at
border prices.



Table 9.3:  MARGINAL PRODUCT OF LABOR AT DOMESTIC PRICES
--------------- Present --------------         ---------Future Without Project ---------           -----------Future With Project        
Marginal                                         Marginal                                             Marginal
Demand          Cost       Total Cost           Demand            Cost        Total Cost            Demand            Cost       Total Cost
('000 days)        (B)         (B '000)         ('000 days)          (B)          (B '000)          ('000 days)          (B)         (B 'ODD)
Jan         834           11.9          7,757               852              12.0          7,971                 871            12.1          8,203
Feb         597           10.4          5,110               627              10.6          5,424               1,085            13.6          10,940
Mar         194            7.9           1,414              310               8.6          2,374               1,118            13.9          11,387
Apr         407            9.2          3,245               439               9.4          3,537                  307            8.6           2,353
May         787           11.6          7,203               787              11.6          7,204                  928           12.5           8,902
Jun         628           10.6          5,437               780              11.6          7,122               1,219            15.0          12,850
Jul         157            7.7           1,128              193               7.9           1,407                 503            9.8           4,158
Aug          32            6.9             218               36               6.9             244                 883           12.2           8,347
Sep           0            6.7               0                0               6.7               0                683            11.0           6,033
Oct           0            6.7               0                0               6.7               0                  75             7.2            521
Nov         470            9.6           3,838              470               9.6           3,838                 843            12.0          7,857
Dec         328            8.8           2,537              332               8.8           2,570                 615            10.5          5,300
Total labor demand ('000 man-days)          4,435                              4,826                                               9,132
Total labor cost  (B '000)                 37,887                             41,690                                              86,851
Economic wage rate (B)                        8.5                                 8.7                                                9.5
Incremental labor demand ('000 man-days)                                                       4,306
Incremental labor cost (B '000)                                                               45,161



- 73 -
9.10      The marginal product of labor at different times of the year for
the project area was determined using a technique developed in the appraisal
report for the Phitsanulok Project (Reference B-5). It is postulated that the
marginal opportunity cost of farm labor in the project can be approximated by an
S-shaped curve. The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
the curve at the corresponding level of labor demand (Table 9.3). With the
project, it varies from B 7.2 per man-day in October to B 15.0 per man-day in
June. The total opportunity cost of farm labor is then the area under the curve
up to the level of employment. Computed this way, the future opportunity cost of
farm labor would be B 86.9 million with the project at full development and
B 41.7 million without the project, or an incremental cost of B 45.2 million.
This would be equivalent to pricing the incremental employment of 4.3 million
man-days per year at the marginal product of labor of B 10.5 per man-day.
Multiplying the marginal product by the conversion factor for consumption of
0.96 gives the economic cost of labor measured at border prices of B 10.1 per
man-day, for use in the economic analysis.
9.11      Economic Rates of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and dis-
counting benefits and costs over a 30-year evaluation period, the economic
rate of return for the whole Part A area is 39% (Table 9.4). The net present
value of the project at the Economic Accounting Rate of Interest of 11.8% is
B 2.2 billion. Although the economic rate of return is high, it is realistic
for this type of investment which provides, at relatively low cost, the last
stage of development at the farm level to allow farmers to benefit from
substantial past investments in water control facilities. Separate rates of
return were also computed for the three composite areas to be developed
intensively, as well as the lower potential area which would receive extensive
on-farm development, to ensure their individual justification. The results
are presented in Table 9.4 and summarized below:
Area                                 Economic Rate of Return
intensive areas
Boromdhart/Chanasutr (20,000 ha)                      43%
Koke Kathiem/Manorom (14,100 ha)                      54%
Samchook/Don Chedi   (12,900 ha)                      31%
Extensive areas (16,000 ha)                             28%
9.12      The individual rates of return show that each part of the project
area would be justified by itself. Furthermore, the relative rates of return
conform to expectations. For the intensive areas, the highest return would
be to the relatively backward Koke Kathiem/Manorom area while the lowest
return would be in the well developed Samchook and Don Chedi areas where
incremental benefits from a similar level of investment would be lower. The
lowest absolute rate of return would be for the extensive area, which would be
so developed because of its lower agricultural potential, and which would not
support the cost of intensive development.



Table 9.4: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(B million)
Part A Project Area                             Boromdhart/Chanasutr (Intensive)                          Koke Kathiem/Manorom (Intensive)
Project Costs                                        Project Costs                                                Project Costs
Year     Capital   O&M    Benefits                             Capital   O&M      Benefits                                 Capital   O&M       Benefits
1       14.9      5.0     -43.4                                 4.7    1.6       -13.7                                      3.3    1.2        -10.1
2      148.7    10.0      -67.1                                46.6    3.2       -26.2                                     32.8    2.4        -17.7
3      178.4    15.0      -14.6                                55.9    4.8        -8.5                                     39.4    3.6        - 2.6
4      185.0    20.2      107.2                                57.9    6.6        24.0                                     40.8    4.7         48.4
5      153.6    20.2      339.7                                48.1    6.6       120.5                                      33.9    4.7       117.5
6       95.8    20.2      479.2                                30.0    6.6       180.7                                      21.2    4.7       161.0
7          -    20.2      542.7                                   -    6.6       209.7                                         -    4.7       183.7
8-30          -    20.2      550.1                                   -    6.6        220.7                                        -    4.7       185.7
Economic Rate of Return:       39%                                                    43%                                                         54%
Net Present Value at Economic Accounting Rate of Interest:  B 2.2 billion.
Samchook/ Don Chedi                                                  Extensive Area
Project Costs                                              Project Costs
Year          Capital   0&M         Benefits                             Capital   0&M       Benefits
1             4.2    1.5           -16.4                                 1.7    0.7            -
2           41.7    3.0            -18.5                                16.9    1.4            -
3            50.0    4.5            -2.5                                20.3    2.1          6.0
4            51.8    5.9            27.6                                21.1    4.6         12.1
5            43.0    5.9            79.0                                17.5    4.6         18.1
6            26.9    5.9           105.7                                10.9    4.6         24.1
7               -    5.9           113.5                                   -    4.6         30.2
8-30               -    5.9            107.6                                   -    4.6        36.1
Economic Rate of Return:                31%                                                    28%



- 75 -
9.13      Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity of the rate of return for the entire
area was tested to cost overruns, reduction and delay in benefits, and pricing
of all incremental labor at the full employment market wage. The effects of these
changes were as follows:
Alternative                         Economic Rate of Return
(a) a 30% increase in construction and
O&M costs                                                33%
(b) a two-year delay in reaching full
project benefits                                         27'%
(c)  a 30% reduction in project benefits                      31%
(d)  a combination of (a), (b) and (c)                        18%
(e) all incremental farm labor priced at
B 25 per man-day                                         36%
These results indicate that the economic rate of return is not unduly sensitive
to any of the major assumptions made in its derivation.
9.14      Income Distribution.  The estimated income distribution effects of
Part A of the project are encouraging. With the proposed project at full
development the weighted average per capita consumption would be B 5,450
(US$270), compared with an estimated per capita private consumption in 1984
at 1977 constant prices of B 6,400 (US$310). Farm budget estimates (Table
7.4) indicate that about one-third of the farmers in the project area have
household incomes within 15% of the absolute poverty level (compared with an
average of 20% of households in the Central Region of Thailand). About
three-quarters of the farm households have an income level less than 60%
above the absolute poverty level, compared to 40% of the regional population.
Although these figures contain a wide margin of error, it is nevertheless
significant that the concentration of the farm population around critical
income levels is higher in the Part A project area than elsewhere in the
region.
Parts B and C - Rehabilitation and Service Roads
9.15      As the rehabilitation works to be constructed under Part B of the
project are quite varied in character, it would be difficult to establish a
direct relationship between costs and benefits. The following analysis
should, therefore, be treated as approximate. The proposed rehabilitation
works would cost about US$83/ha and would lead to an increase in paddy yields
of at least 10% overall (230 kg/ha). This would lead to an economic rate of
return of 15%. Rates of return in some areas would be considerably more.
For Part C, the pilot projects for on-farm development would be expected to
have a similar rate of return to the analogous works under Part A, as well as
having value as applied research. The service roads in the Mae Klong area
should permit more efficient operation and maintenance of the irrigation
system, especially after dry season water becomes available in 1979. It is
expected that improved service roads would lead to an increase in the opera-
tional efficiency of the irrigation system of at least 1%. This corresponds



- 76 -
to an increase in the dry-season cropped area of about 3,000 ha. This would
lead to an economic rate of return of at least 15%. Additional benefits of
even greater magnitude would flow from the reduction in transport costs for
the region's produce and the likely increase in the sugar extraction rate,
but little data is available to quantify these.
Risks
9.16      There are no unusual risks associated with the project.  The risks
normally associated with irrigation projects have been accounted for in the
estimates of yields and in the areas to be irrigated during the dry season, and
it has been found that the economic rate of return is not unduly sensitive to
these assumptions.
Overall Rate of Return
9.17      The economic rate of return for the project as a whole is estimated
at 31%.



-  77  -                                    FIGURE  9.1
THAILAND
CHAO PHYA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT 11
Marginal Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
35 -
D
30 -
25 -
<  20 -
< 15 B/
/
10 _
5 _
I     I     I     I            I     I     I      I     I     I      I     I     I     I
0    10    20    30    40    50    60    70    80    90   100   110   120   130   140   150
LABOR DEMAND AS % OF SUPPLY
0             0.5          1.0                1.5          2.0         2.5               3.0
MILLIONS OF MAN-DAYS PER MONTH
World Bank-16855



- 78 -
10. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  consultants acceptable to the Bank would be employed before
October 31, 1977, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, to assist in the implementation of Parts A and B of the
Project and to prepare a feasibility study for a third stage of
development in the Northern Chao Phya area (para. 3.13);
(b)  RID would maintain separate accounts for the Chao Phya and
Mae Klong parts of the Project, would engage auditors satisfactory
to the Bank to audit these accounts annually, and would submit the
audited project accounts, together with the auditor's comments, to
the Bank within four months of the close of each financial year
(para. 3.32);
(c)  A Project Coordination Committee, with membership, powers, functions
and procedures acceptable to the Bank, would be established and
maintained (para. 4.08);
(d)  RID would operate and maintain all the irrigation, service roads
and drainage systems under its jurisdiction required for the
functioning of all facilities constructed under the Project and
the Stage I project, in accordance with sound engineering standards
including, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the adoption
of a three-year cycle for routine maintenance (para. 4.18);
(e)  the Government would recover from the beneficiaries of Part A of
the project amounts equivalent, on average, to 50% of the actual
cost of on-farm development, such amounts to be recovered over a
period of not more than 15 years with interest at not less than
12% and with appropriate grace periods; and would make arrange-
ments acceptable to the Bank, before December 31, 1977, for the
collection by BAAC or other institutions acceptable to the Bank of
such amounts (para 8.07);
(f)  before December 31, 1978, the Government would introduce an annual
charge of not less than the average cost of operating and maintaining
the irrigation and drainage systems, including on-farm development
works in the project area and would, promptly following the introduc-
tion of such charges, impose and collect them from the beneficiaries
of Parts A and B of the present project, as well as the Chao Phya
Irrigation Improvement Project I (para. 8.09).
10.02     A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the Project Coordination
Committee had been established (para 4.08).



- 79 -
10.03     Conditions of disbursement for Part C of the project would be
that:
(a) consultants acceptable to the Bank had been employed, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to assist in the
implementation of Part C of the project (para. 3.14); and
(b) RID had formally appointed a Project Director and a Project
Manager, after consultation with the Bank, to be responsible
for all construction activity in the Mae Klong Irrigation
Project Area (para. 4.04).
10.04     With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$55.0 million, with repayment over 20 years,
including 4-1/2 years of grace. The Borrower would be the Kingdom of
Thailand.






ANNEX
Page 1
ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Section A:   General Reports on Thailand and the Agricultural Sector
Reference                         Title
No.
A-l       World Bank, "Economic Memorandum on the Current Economic
Situation and Prospects of Thailand," Report No. 1280a-TH,
October 29, 1976.
A-2       World Bank, "Agricultural Sector Survey - Thailand," Report
No. PA-131 (4 vols.), May 1, 1972.
A-3       Thailand, "Agricultural Statistics of Thailand:  Crop Year
1974/75," Division of Agricultural Economics, Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives, Bangkok, December 1975.
A-4       FAO/UNDP, "Survey Mission for the Chao Phya Delta, Thailand,"
Report No. EA: SF/THA/68, Rome, April 30, 1968.
A-5       World Bank, "Irrigation Program Review:  Thailand," Report
No. 1397a-TH, December 1976.
A-6       RID, "Northern Chao Phya Study," Report No. 4.56.002 (3 vols.),
NEDECO-ILACO-DHV, July 1970.
A-7       RID/Netherlands, "Land Consolidation Project in the Central
Plain of Thailand," Report No. 4.56.008 (2 vols.), NEDECO-ILACO,
November 1973.
A-8       Small, Leslie E., "An Economic Evaluation of Water Control in
the Northern Region of the Greater Chao Phya Project of Thailand,"
Ph.D. Thesis, Cornell University, May 1972.
A-9       World Bank, "Social Cost-Benefit Analysis:  A Guide for Country
and Project Economists to the Derivation and Application of
Economic and Social Accounting Prices," Bank Staff Working Paper
No. 239 (prepared by Colin Bruce), August 1976.
A-10      ESCAP/Mekong Committee, "Guidelines for the Economic Appraisal
of Projects in the Lower Mlekong Basin," (2 vols.), Bangkok,
December 1975, Volume II, "Calculation of Conversion Factors for
Thailand."
A-11      World Bank, "Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities,"
Report No. 814/76, June 1976.
A-12      Lyn Squire and Herman van der Tak, Economic Analysis of Projects,
Baltimore, Johns Hopkins University Press, 1975.



ANNEX
Page 2
Section B:   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Reference                         Title
No.
B-1       MOAC/RID, "Chao Phya Irrigated Agriculture Development Project:
Feasibility Study - Stage II," Report No. 4.56.014 (3 vols.),
ILACO, September 1975.
B-2       MOAC/RID, "Study of the Development Priorities of the Greater
Meklong Project," Report No. 4.56.020 (2 vols.), ILACO, November
1974.
B-3       World Bank, "Thailand - Appraisal of the Chao Phya Irrigation
Improvement Project," Report No. 24a-TH, March 16, 1973.
B-4       World Bank, "Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand -
Appraisal of the Ban Chao Nen Hyro-Electric Project," Report No.
291a-TH, March 21, 1974.
B-5       World Bank, "Thailand - Appraisal of the Phitsanulok Irrigation
Project," Report No. 248b-TH, June 27, 1975.
B-6       World Bank, "Thailand - Appraisal of the National Agricultural
Extension Project," Report No. 1256a-TH, March 10, 1977.
B-7       Judd, P. and Obordo, R. A. (Consultants), "Identification of
a National Research Project," (draft), December 27, 1975.
B-8       2fOAC/Department of Fisheries, "Reconnaissance of Fish Farming
Prospects in the Northern Chao Phya Area," Technical Note
No. 21, ILACO, June 1975.
B-9       "Mae Klong Integrated Rural Development Project (MIRD):  Phase
Two and Progress to Date," mimeo, January 15, 1976.
B-10      "Conflicts between Rice and Sugarcane Growers," Thesis, Thammasat
University.
B-11      MOAC, "The Additional Studies on 'Appraisal of the Land Consoli-
dation Project, Chanasutr, Singburi, and Study on Recovery of
the Cost," Division of Agricultural Economics (3 vols.),
September 1976.
Section C:   Selected Working Papers
C-1       "Working Paper on Cost Estimates," June 9, 1976.
C-2       "Working Paper on Equipment and Vehicles," June 7, 1976.
C-3       "Working Paper on Operation and Maintenance," June 15, 1976.



ANNEX
Page 3
Reference                                  Title
No.
C-4       "Working Paper on Consultant Requirements," (Parts A and B),
June 12, 1976.
C-5       "Working Paper on Analyses of On-Farm Development," June 11,
1976.
C-6       "Working Paper on Mapping Needs and Capabilities," June 14,
1976.
C-7       "Additional Data - Chao Phya Stage II," April 8, 1976.
C-8       "Detailed List of Proposed Rehabilitation Works (Part A),"
June 18, 1976.
C-9       "Detailed List of Proposed Rehabilitation Works (Part B),"
September 22, 1976.
C-10      "Additional Data on the Mae Klong Project," April 26, 1976.
C-11      "Note on Mapping Standards and Equipment Needs," October 10,
1976.
C-12      "Consultant Terms of Reference - Mae Klong," March 16, 1977.
C-13      "Cost Estimates, Equipment Requirements and Disbursement Esti-
mates," October 28, 1976, revised November 9, 1976.
C-14      "Discussion Paper on Project Organization," May 24, 1976.
C-15      "Report on the Development Attitude Survey," July 1976.
C-16      "Supplemental Report on the Development Attitude Survey,"
January 1977.
C-17      "Organizational and Financial Requirements for Financing Part of
the Project Cost (of On-Farm Development) Through Long-Term
Credit," November 1976.
C-18      "Demand, Price Structure and Marketing Systems," August 16,
1976.
C-19      "Economic and Social Analysis," August 17, 1976.
C-20      "Rent and Cost Recovery," August 25, 1976.
C-21      "Financial and Economic Tables - Computer Printouts," July
1976, revised February 1977.






F  98'       17']'    C,                   I                                               r              9 CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NA
20'-               "'    
>Ch,-, R'                                                                     TI-A (LAND  9
.  -                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~L
LAO  'PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC 
A,      >  AMOIA
0 ~~~~'C,REPUBLIC                                                                                     OtVE R
A  Ky                s                                                         s,u>,,o  ~~~~~~~~~~c-c
Na,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         IGPR
CM                    C      jy
j- y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~A!
'L                'A    "              C                 '-
90'~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T "'-r ARA                                          CHOPHAIRIATO
K,                                      <I~~CW,PRJETLOATO
5e               f                                   '(                       I- 
1'  '4       I                       4~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~              PROJECT BOUNtARIE
~~~~~~              R.~~~~~~RONAIS   TP  IRGTONtOET
U';  Bakrr>S'~~~~~~~~~~,o,     <9>              >                         -'~~~RCETI ASSTEBYHEA    ROP_
~~~CI,B1  I  N                                                       l~~~~~~~~~~~~~P~VNCALBUNN >E
'0'>'' 5  B,r,am
N----                          '   0              2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NERAINA     ONDRE
n-V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)oi 
10,~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       
\  2LK'LIaBANG~~~~~~~~E  I-o,ho~~~~~ngoao    >                oS30
Rat o>~~~~~~~~~5~~~4in~~~~~f  S~D20
T"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<Co Do,.TF.
C    ..,~~~~,      Re    '/V   4-  \                                              TALN
0  <se>~(BAC'AAR'A            ~,                           HAO PHY            IR IGA IO






THAILAND
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Projectl:
NORTHERN CHAO PHYA AREA
UTHlA  rTHAs                                                               PreleCt -o,ndare
.rrigat o  project boundaries
>>\  \   J g    /\   |   \  *   \5            :  =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rrigat,on crnr 15
Head regulators
r                                               ,//>F=>\Jf Rivers and dra rs
*  P-Pi,g t.rt ons
W ,                                                                  R.;,(   t , \ (       ,  v FaI-Y31Cp?I
P 'n! ...... u -d,e
it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _    Al,
Sorteu rImeters i 
-    rsestegu   boasda es
o  C sIrc  Cepit   b65Rp    V
LO-BUR I
h.,  Y~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Sta  I,eal'
p h~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~e 
"~~ ~      ~~ ~ ~          ~     ~~~~~~~~ /<    Pr5GTMi'Q 15             /g H              
HANBUR_ _   zilu r<lbuli   j,   _         1                        JtTs tuna>o     -
AYTTi1A25@ ~~~~, 
buraiu  N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0           s     in   2 
/uraCsru              Kiiueirrnr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  y  55   used   a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
C- 'Nr,                                                     V ,  
, 5' 1a5,~~~~~~~~ 5nuee10 






I BRD) 1Q,I 
DEMO(--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCM8R17 
n                                    a
>   t  <                                  00 ~~~ t  e       S/SItN X  N                  C o
I \L  A z0W    '--   , \ -   -  '  -              f     J             ''        t  
|H OP Y     tRRIGATwON   Yl
Th.                                                            C     Sna;  I
AKHON PAI HOM      Hgway
ld'   Ban  -'~ j  9  Phr an  . N T BA NG KOKw\
MAE'@              an KLONGPhae R  AREA
,-    lnternaiOflK1Thum Baen i
7(t ) 4/1| /  '  t      Barl ~Phaeo f>     
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- t f SAM T 0NGHRM 
\ CHAO PHYA IRRIG~~~~ATIN                   9Dang A                                 nS|
IM    atp  Sho wsing    the    StageI - - ntrainlBudie
I  Irrigation Systemn and Proposed      f          ,
Systems for the Stage II Areas 1 S 2
|                              t: ^         WCHA8URi ,   t           KlLOMEffRSPErHABUR
l                                  \ gBanPong / t \~~~~~Ban
THAt" AND     p
9930~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~je of 5o't"1
IRIA I                                                       D1419 Canalsr  1v\) a  at/<000\ 
CHA       PH AN                                                                 riato  anl, le



