Page  1
August 30, 2001
His Excellency
DR. Boediono
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Jakarta, Indonesia
Dear Mr. Minister:
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Preparation of  the Second Kecamatan 
Development Project Grant Number TF 026429
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred forty 
four thousand and five hundred dollars ($544,500) (the Grant) to the Republic of 
Indonesia (the Recipient). 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mark Baird
Country Director, Indonesia
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Dr. Boediono
Minister of Finance
Date:
August 30, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the 
proposed Second Kecamatan Development Project (the Project) which has as main 
objectives the provision of productive infrastructure to poor communities, the 
introduction of demand-driven mechanisms for community development programs, the 
strengthening of the role of local institutions and non-governmental organizations 
providing development services for the poor, and supporting private sector development 
among the poor. The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
Development of a single-window financing framework for community 
development
(i)
Development of community-based procurement formats, cost-benefit 
Page  2
assessments, and a financial management approach including audits.
(ii)
Development of a manual for community contracting.
(iii)
Preparation of a project implementation plan.
(iv)
Preparation of project monitoring indicators and methods
(v)
Preparation of technical manuals.
(vi)
Carrying out of six regional project design workshops.
The Activity is estimated to cost US$417,500 equivalent.
(b)
District level integration
Preparation of a strategy paper that describes local tax opportunities, improved 
planning procedures for community development, local regulatory reform, and revised 
local  procurement guidelines.
The Activity is estimated to cost US$74,500.
(c)
Poverty data register
Preparation of a master poverty list through interpolation of recent data from 
the national expenditure survey, the national village potential survey and information 
from the World Bank’s poverty assessment, including preparation of TOR for any 
necessary additional studies on poverty.
The Activity is estimated to cost US$52,500.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities and the carrying out of workshops. The estimated cost of the workshops is 
US$40,000.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than October 31, 2001, or by the 
effectiveness date of the Second Kecamatan Development Project, whichever is earlier. 
After such date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities and the carrying out of the workshops 
shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be governed, except as 
otherwise decided by the Bank after consultation with the Recipient, by the provisions 
of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Republic of Indonesia on the Consultants or any of the 
Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in 
connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of 
Indonesia, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have 
been suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive 
Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn 
its request for the Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Letter 
Agreement.
Page  3
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated November 2000 
(the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.
Services for technical manual and training program preparation, community 
procurement and contracting, cost benefit assessments, technical quality reviews, and 
the widows pilot programs shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with the 
provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
