Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3535 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Kecamatan Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 30, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3535 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 30, 2001 between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to two hundred eight million nine hundred 
thousand Dollars ($208,900,000) (the Loan); and
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows; 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of Part 
A of the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; 
or (ii) right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural 
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence 
or habitat adversely affected; and "Affected Person" means individually all those who 
qualify as Affected Persons;
(b)
 "BAPPEDA" means the Regional or Local Development Planning Agency;
(c)
"BAPPENAS" means the Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency;
(d)
"BPM" means  Bina Pemberdayaan Masyarakat, the Borrower’s Directorate 
General for Community Empowerment under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Regional 
Autonomy;
(e)
"BPM Secretariat" means the Project management unit established within 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs and Regional Autonomy;
(f)
"BPKP" means Badan Pengawas Keuangan dan Pembangunan, the Borrower’s 
Financial and Development Supervisory Agency;
(g)
"Bupati" means the Head of a Kabupaten;
(h)
"Camat" means the Kabupaten official at the Kecamatan;
(i)
"Desa" means a village;
(j)
"Facilitator" means a technical or social specialist assigned to work 
Page  3
with villages to facilitate their participation in the Project;
(k)
"Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 
1 and ending December 31;
(l)
"Grant" means a grant made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds 
of the Credit to a LKMD for a Sub-project under Part A.1 through A.5 of the Project 
pursuant to the provisions of the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
"Grantee" means a person or an entity carrying out a Sub-project under 
Part A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4 or A.5 of the Project;
(n)
 "Isolated Vulnerable People" means those social groups in Indonesia that 
have a distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being 
disadvantaged in the development process induced by the Project or any part thereof;
(o)
"Kabupaten" means a district;
(p)
"Kecamatan" means an administrative sub-district of a Kabupaten;
(q)
"Kepala Desa" means the Head of a village;
(r)
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines" means the Guidelines 
adopted by the Borrower on May 14, 2001, acceptable to the Association, for the 
provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Affected 
Persons, as such Guidelines may be amended from time to time in agreement with the 
Association; 
(s)
"LKMD" means Lembaga Ketahanan Masyarakat Desa, a village community 
forum, or other village institution established under Keppres 49/2001;
(t)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(u)
"PJOK" means a Project manager at the Kecamatan level;
(v)
"Project Kecamatan" means a Kecamatan selected by the Borrower for 
participation in Part A of the Project in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(w)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.03 of this Agreement;
(x)
"Project Manual" means the manual to assist BPM and LKMDs in the 
implementation of the Project, as such Project Manual may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Association;
(y)
"Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to 
measure the Borrower’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(z)
"Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(aa)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(bb)
"Sub-borrower" and "Sub-borrowers" mean a person and persons, 
respectively, responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part A.6 of the 
Project;
(cc)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made by an UPK to a Sub-borrower or Sub-borrowers 
for a Sub-project under Part A.6 of the Project out of funds made available to the 
relevant Kecamatan by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(dd)
"Sub-project" means a specific investment project carried out under Part 
A of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Grant or a Sub-loan;
(ee)
"Sub-project Agreement" means the agreement entered into between an UPK 
and a Grantee and between an UPK and a Sub-borrower for purposes of a Sub-project;
Page  4
(ff)
"SUSENAS" means the Borrower’s National Household Expenditure Survey; and
(gg)
"UPK" means a Kecamatan Financial Management Unit.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eighty seven million, five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
87,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (i) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of a Grant or a Sub-loan made under Part A of the Project to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Sub-project and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for Parts B, C and D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia (its Central Bank) or in a state 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
Page  5
each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2011, and ending June 1, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2021, shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1 and 1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2 and 1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Directorate General of Community Empowerment of its 
Ministry of Home Affairs and Regional Autonomy with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, agriculture, engineering, 
environmental, financial and social practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Page  6
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months  after   the  end  of  each  such  year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so  audited,  and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
November 30, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
Page  7
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(b)
that the Project Manual, acceptable to the Association, has been adopted. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Page  8
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
(21) 381 2859
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ H.E. DR. Boediono
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mark Baird
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
 Amount of the
   % of
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in       (Expressed in
   to be 
Category
SDR Equivalent)            dollars)         Financed
(1)
Grants and    64,000,000
  151,100,000 100% of Grant or
Sub-loans under 
Sub-loan amount
Part A of 
disbursed
the Project
(2)
Training under  18,000,000             42,600,000
100%
Part B.1 and 
facilitation
Support under Part
B.3 of the Project
(3)
Consultants’ services
100%
under:
Page  9
(a) Part C of    4,700,000
   11,200,000
the Project
(b) Parts B.2      800,000
    1,911,000
and D of the 
Project
(4)
Fee 
    2,089,000 Amount due
under Section
2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
TOTAL
87,500,000
208,900,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (2) until the 
Borrower has (i) employed the consultants at the central, provincial, Kabupaten and 
Kecamatan level in accordance with  paragraph  6  of  Schedule 4  to  this  Agreement; 
(ii) employed the management firms in accordance with paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, and (iii) selected the bank in accordance with paragraph 8 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for Grants, Sub-loans, 
training and facilitation support (Facilitators) under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in supporting better 
governance in rural villages and in providing rural communities with development 
infrastructure that will raise the income of the poor. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Kecamatan Grants and Sub-loans Program
1.
Carrying out of infrastructure investment projects in Kecamatans, through the 
provision of Grants to LKMDs.
2.
Carrying out of small construction and rehabilitation projects in villages, 
through the provision of Grants to LKMDs.
3.
Carrying out of social services projects in villages through the provision of 
Grants to LKMDs.
4.
Carrying out of economic activities in villages, through the provision of Grants 
to selected poor women.
5.
Carrying out of poverty reduction pilot projects in villages, through the 
provision of Grants to LKMDs.
6.
Carrying out of income-generating investment projects in villages, through the 
provision of Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers.
Part B:  Community Capacity Development
1.
Carrying out of training programs for villagers and Facilitators, including:
Page  10
(a)
training to develop basic skills in development planning and management;
(b)
training in cooperative planning, ex-post quality review, and conflict 
resolution; 
(c)
training in setting up village linkages to government agencies and the 
private sector at the Kabupaten level through the establishment of monitoring 
activities, long-term development planning and community participation in Kabupaten 
contracting;
(d)
training in facilitation of hamlet and village meetings; 
(e)
training in facilitation of inter-village meetings for planning, 
implementation review, and conflict resolution; and
(f)
training and facilitation of village meetings with provincial and 
Kabupaten parliaments for planning and implementation review.
2.
Increasing villagers’ awareness of available dispute resolution mechanisms 
through: (i) the provision of information to villagers on dispute resolution 
mechanisms including the preparation and publication of a booklet on villagers’ rights 
relating to activities under the Project; (ii) the establishment and maintenance of a 
data base and a filing system for disputes and their resolution; and (iii) the 
provision of relevant information on these matters to Project staff and Project 
consultants.
3.
Supporting the capacity of Project Kecamatans and villages in the planning and 
implementation of Sub-projects through the provision of facilitation support.
Part C: Implementation Support
1.
Strengthening BPM’s central, provincial and district Project implementation 
agencies through the provision of technical assistance.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of villages to carry out pilot projects under Part 
A.5 of the Project, through provision of technical assistance.
Part D:  Monitoring and Evaluation and Studies
1.
Strengthening the monitoring and evaluation capacity of BAPPENAS and BPM through 
the provision of technical assistance.
2.
Carrying out of studies to trace the effects of the Project’s institutional 
reforms, and the Project’s effects on local governance and poverty reduction.
3.
Carrying out of studies on community-based safety nets and village and Kecamatan 
revenue generation.
4.
Carrying out of studies at the Kabupaten level on ways to create a more 
favorable growth environment for poor villages, including procurement reforms and 
alternative systems of social service delivery.
5.
Facilitating an assessment of poverty at the province and Kabupaten level and 
the sustainability of poverty reduction programs at the province and Kabupaten level.
6.
Carrying out of statistical profiles of Kabupatens to assess the poverty status 
and the quality of the social service delivery in such Kabupatens.
*  *  *
Page  11
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project may be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
Page  12
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical support to villages and services by non-governmental 
organizations for Project monitoring, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part B.2, Part D.1 and Part D.6 of the Project, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
under Parts B, C and D of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants under Parts B, C and D of the Project, other than for Facilitators under 
Part B.3 of the Project and provincial and Kabupaten-level management consultants 
under Part C of the Project, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after such approval 
shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for employment of individual consultants 
for Facilitators and provincial and Kabupaten-level management consultants under Part 
C of the Project, the terms of reference, including the qualifications and experience 
requirement, shall be furnished  to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The selection process in each case shall be initiated only after such approval has 
Page  13
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of the 
Project, the Project Manual, acceptable to the Association, which shall include the 
description of: (i) implementation arrangements, (ii) the procurement procedures set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and standard procurement documentation, (iii) 
reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures as set 
forth in Article 4 of this Agreement, (iv) the Project Performance Indicators set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, (v) the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Guidelines referred to in Section 1.02 (r) of this Agreement, (vi) the environmental 
criteria applicable to Sub-project design including environmental impact mitigation, 
(vii) maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under a Sub-project, and 
(viii) the criteria for the selection of Sub-projects and terms and conditions of 
Sub-loans and Grants set forth in the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain the BPM Secretariat until the completion of the 
Project with term of reference, facilities and staff, acceptable to the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
ensure that auditing activities under the Project, including the audits 
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, are carried out in accordance with 
BPKP’s audit manual dated  April 13, 1999 and in accordance with terms of reference 
agreed with the Association; and
(b)
by October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 2001, and until 
completion of the Project inform each Kabupaten, and province in which such Kabupaten 
is located, that all auditing activities with respect to Sub-projects are to be 
carried out exclusively by auditors appointed by BPM and in accordance with the manual 
and terms of reference referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3.
4.
The Borrower shall cause each Kabupaten participating in the Project to appoint 
a PJOK for purposes of the Project by not later than November 30 in each year, 
commencing November 30, 2001, and until completion of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall cause each Kabupaten participating in the Project to appoint 
a Kabupaten Coordination Team by not later than December 31 in each year, commencing 
December 31, 2001, such Team to include representatives from the Kabupaten BAPPEDA, 
BPM and the relevant Kabupaten technical agencies responsible for service delivery 
within a Kabupaten. 
6. 
The Borrower shall for purposes of Parts B and C of the Project, employ at least 
thirty consultants at the central level, two hundred consultants at the provincial and 
Kabupaten level and one thousand consultants at the Kecamatan level, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
7.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of Parts B and C of the Project, employ two 
management firms in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, to provide administrative support to the consultants employed for purposes 
of Parts B and C of the Project.
8.
The Borrower shall select in accordance with criteria acceptable to the 
Association the services of a banking institution, acceptable to the Association, to 
provide banking services required in the carrying out of activities under Parts B and 
Page  14
C of the Project.
9.
The Borrower shall select Project Kecamatans that are among the Borrower’s 35% 
poorest Kecamatans based on the SUSENAS data.
10.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
each provincial BAPPEDA shall, in consultation with the relevant Bupati, 
annually select proposed Project Kecamatans from a list, provided by BPM, of 
Kecamatans meeting the criteria set forth in paragraph 9 of this Schedule;
(b)
each provincial BAPPEDA shall furnish the annual consolidated list of 
proposed Project Kecamatans to the BPM Secretariat and the Association for approval, 
by not later than November 30 of each year for the following Fiscal Year, commencing 
November 30, 2001, and until completion of the Project; and
(c)
not later than December 31 of each year for the following Fiscal Year, 
commencing December 31, 2001, and until completion of the Project, the BPM Secretariat 
shall make the approved annual consolidated list of Project Kecamatans available to 
the public free of charge.
11.
The Borrower shall ensure that the relevant Bupatis and Camats shall:
(a)
issue to the Project Kecamatans, by not later than October 31 of each 
year for the following Fiscal Year, commencing October 31, 2001, and until completion 
of the Project, public information aimed at disclosing to villagers and their 
representatives, all administrative, financial, environmental, social, procedural and 
technical aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation and implementation 
of Sub-projects; and 
(b)
make such information, including the Project Manual, available free of 
charge for consultation at the Kecamatan office.
12.
In carrying out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall, through the relevant 
PJOK, ensure that, prior to the carrying out of works under a Sub-project, the 
Kabupaten engineer shall have completed a technical review of such Sub-project and 
shall have confirmed the following:
(a)
the criteria described in the Annex to this Schedule have been complied 
with;
(b)
necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been 
obtained, including a Grant or a Sub-loan and any voluntary contributions to be made 
by villagers;
(c)
appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that 
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected 
Persons have been considered in the design of the Sub-project in accordance with the 
Project Manual;
(d)
the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines have been complied with, 
and, if applicable, appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed and are 
satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth under the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Guidelines and paragraph 15 of this Schedule;
(e)
a Sub-project Agreement has been entered into and an implementation plan 
for the Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Manual; and
(f)
a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the 
Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the Association 
and has been included in the Sub-project Agreement, which shall include assignment of 
maintenance responsibilities in the respective village, the preparation of training 
programs to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the village, and the 
Page  15
identification of available sources of financing to carry out such programs.
13.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
ensure that, until completion of the Project, the Project Manual is made 
available to the Kecamatan Facilitators and the Kabupaten engineers and applied in the 
carrying out of Sub-projects; and
(b)
periodically update the Project Manual, if needed, in agreement with the 
Association.
14.
In carrying out Part A of the Project , the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
each infrastructure Sub-project under Part A of the Project is reviewed 
by the Kabupaten engineer upon completion and that a certificate of Sub-project 
completion shall be issued by the Kabupaten engineer upon a finding of satisfactory 
Sub-project completion in accordance with the Project Manual and approved designs; and
(b)
if there is a finding of unsatisfactory completion of a Sub-project, 
except for cases of force majeure under Grants, the UPK shall recover the amounts 
disbursed under the respective Grant in accordance with community procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
15.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
villagers and to avoid the displacement of said villagers;
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of villagers 
is unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the village shall, before 
carrying out the works which would result in such acquisition or displacement, make 
available to such villagers, compensation, resettlement and other rehabilitation 
measures in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more villagers are adversely affected by 
a Sub-project:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines and furnish such plan to 
the Association for approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all 
Affected Persons shall have been compensated and provided with 
resettlement and rehabilitation measures in accordance with the 
provisions of said plan.
16.  
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
avoid, and, if not possible, minimize cultural, social and economic 
adverse effects on Isolated Vulnerable People caused or likely to be caused by the 
Project; and
(b)
through a process of informed participation, involve concerned Isolated 
Vulnerable People in the design and implementation of Sub-projects so as to ensure 
that the benefits received by the Isolated Vulnerable People under the Project are in 
harmony with their economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their 
customary user rights.
17.
In carrying out Part A.6 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
a revolving fund is established and maintained by the UPK in the Project 
Kecamatans in accordance with procedures agreed with the Association and set forth in 
Page  16
the Project Manual;  
(b)
payments on the principal of and interest on Sub-loans are deposited into 
the respective Kecamatan account established for such revolving funds;
(c)
the UPK has been provided with technical assistance and training in 
bookkeeping and financial management; 
(d)
the verification team for proposed Sub-projects includes at least one 
member from a commercial bank; and
(e)
where the Project Kecamatan has provided Sub-loans under the Borrower’s 
Kecamatan Development Project (i) the annual average repayment on principal under 
Sub-loans calculated over the twelve preceding months is equal to or more than 80% of 
the total amount of repayment due during such twelve-month period, or (ii) the 
repayment has improved during the same twelve-month period by at least 25% in the 
aggregate. 
18.
The Borrower shall ensure that information on complaints received concerning the 
carrying out of activities under Part A of the Project, and their resolution, are 
published annually in a local and a national newspaper.
19.
The Borrower shall employ at least one non-governmental organization in each 
province where Project activities are being carried out, to monitor the carrying out 
of Project activities under Part A of the Project in such province.
20.
In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the studies in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to 
the Association;
(b)
not later than January 1 in each year, commencing January 1, 2002, 
furnish to the Association for comments the recommendations of the studies carried out 
in the preceding year;
(c)
not later than July 31 in each year, commencing July 31, 2002, prepare 
action plans for the implementation of the recommendations of the studies carried out 
in the preceding year, taking into account the comments of the Association on such 
recommendations; and 
(d)
promptly thereafter, carry out each of such action plans.
21.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
cause BPM to prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association:
(i)
reports on the implementation of Part A of the Project covering 
the preceding calendar quarter, not later than April 30, July 31, 
October 31 and January 31 in each year, starting January 31, 2002, 
and until the completion of the Project; and
(ii)
annual reports, not later than March 31 in each year, commencing 
March 31, 2003, and until completion of the Project, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, including a detailed 
evaluation of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out 
Page  17
to avoid adverse effects on Isolated Vulnerable People caused or 
likely to be caused by the Project, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30 in each year, commencing June 30, 
2003, or such later date as the Association shall request, and until completion of the 
Project, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
Sub-project Selection Criteria
The Borrower shall cause Sub-projects to be selected in Project Kecamatans in 
accordance with the following criteria.
1.
No Sub-project shall: (a) include expenditures intended for a military or 
paramilitary purpose; (b) include civil works for government administration or 
religious purposes, (c) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous 
goods (including  asbestos and pesticides), arms or drugs, (d) relate to the 
manufacture or use of fishing boats of 10 or more tons, tackle or dynamite; or (e) 
include the financing of government salaries.
2.
Sub-projects under Part A.1 of the Project:
(a)
each proposed Sub-project shall be a public infrastructure investment 
project which is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and economically 
justified by the number of people benefiting from it;
(b)
the estimated cost of a proposed Sub-project shall not be more than 
Rp.350,000,000;
(c)
the estimated cost of the proposed Sub-project when added to the cost of 
the Sub-projects approved in the relevant Project Kecamatan does not exceed in the 
aggregate:
(i)
Rp. 500,000,000 in Project Kecamatans with fewer than 15,000 
inhabitants in all of the Borrower’s provinces;
(ii)
Rp. 750,000,000: (A) in Project Kecamatans with 15,000 or more 
inhabitants but less than 25,000 inhabitants in all of the 
Borrower’s provinces except Banten, Central Java, DKI Jakarta, 
East Java, West Java and Yogyakarta, and (B) in Project Kecamatans 
with 25,000 or more inhabitants but less than 50,000 inhabitants 
in the Borrower’s provinces of Banten, Central Java, East Java, 
West Java and Yogyakarta; and
(iii)
Rp. 1,000,000,000: (A) in Project Kecamatans with 25,000 or more 
inhabitants in all of the Borrower’s provinces except Banten, 
Central Java, DKI Jakarta, East Java, West Java and Yogyakarta, 
and (B) in Project Kecamatans with 50,000 inhabitants or more in 
the Borrower’s provinces of Banten, Central Java, East Java, West 
Java and Yogyakarta; and
(d)
a Sub-project Agreement shall be entered into between the UPK and the 
Grantee, on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Manual.
3.
Sub-projects under Part A.2 of the Project:
(a)
each proposed Sub-project shall be a public rehabilitation project which 
Page  18
is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and economically justified by 
the number of people benefiting from it; 
(b)
the estimated cost of a proposed Sub-project shall not be more than  
Rp.50,000,000; 
(c)
the estimated cost of the proposed Sub-project when added to the cost of 
the Sub-projects approved in the relevant Project Kecamatan does not exceed in the 
aggregate:
(i)
Rp. 500,000,000 in Project Kecamatans with fewer than 15,000 
inhabitants in all of the Borrower’s provinces;
(ii)
Rp. 750,000,000: (A) in Project Kecamatans with 15,000 or more 
inhabitants but less than 25,000 inhabitants in all of the 
Borrower’s provinces except Banten, Central Java, DKI Jakarta, 
East Java, West Java and Yogyakarta, and (B) in Project Kecamatans 
with 25,000 or more inhabitants but less than 50,000 inhabitants 
in the Borrower’s provinces of Banten, Central Java, East Java, 
West Java and Yogyakarta; and
(iii)
Rp. 1,000,000,000: (A) in Project Kecamatans with 25,000 or more 
inhabitants in all of the Borrower’s provinces except Banten, 
Central Java, DKI Jakarta, East Java, West Java and Yogyakarta, 
and (B) in Project Kecamatans with 50,000 inhabitants or more in 
the Borrower’s provinces of Banten, Central Java, East Java, West 
Java and Yogyakarta; and
(d)
a Sub-project Agreement shall be entered into between the UPK and the 
Grantee, on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Manual.
4.
Sub-projects under Part A.3 of the Project:
(a)
each proposed Sub-project shall be a social service investment project 
which is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and economically 
justified by the number of people benefiting from it;
(b)
the estimated cost of a proposed Sub-project shall not be more than 
Rp.25,000,000;
(c)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A.3 of the Project in the education 
sector shall be compatible with the applicable Kabupaten education master plan; 
(d)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A.3 of the Project in the health 
sector shall be compatible with the applicable Kabupaten health master plan; and
(e)
a Sub-project Agreement shall be entered into between the UPK and the 
Grantee, on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Manual.
5.
Sub-projects under Part A.4 of the Project:
(a)
each proposed Sub-project shall be an income-generating investment 
project which is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and economically 
justified; and 
(b)
a Sub-project Agreement shall be entered into between the UPK and the 
Grantee, on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Manual.
6.
Sub-projects under Part A.5 of the Project:
(a)
each proposed Sub-project shall be an investment project which is 
innovative, focused on the poor or the marginal groups, and contributes to the overall 
Page  19
objectives of the Project; 
(b)
the estimated cost of a proposed Sub-project shall not be more than 
Rp.150,000,000; and
(c)
a Sub-project Agreement shall be entered into between the UPK and the 
Grantee, on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Manual.
7.
Sub-projects under Part A.6 of the Project:
(a)
each proposed Sub-project shall be an income-generating investment 
project which is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and economically 
justified; and
(b)
a Sub-project Agreement shall be entered into between the UPK and the 
Sub-borrower, on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Manual, which shall 
include the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
INPUTS
FY 2002
FY2003
FY2004
No. of Project Kecamatans
700
700
700
No.of villages with  Sub-Projects   7,000
10,000
10,000
%.of women in  Village meetings
30%
35%
40%
No. of Grants and Sub-loans 
600
600
600
disbursed
No. of pilot programs launched
-
2
1
OUTPUTS
No.of Sub-project Agreements signed
10,000
10,000
10,000
% of work agreed, by type, value,
workdays, etc
>80%
>80%
>80%
No.of women receiving Grants        100,000
      100,000
100,000
% of Desas visited by Project staff
50%
75%
75%
IMPACTS
1. Sub-project impacts
Internal rate of return on invest-
>20%
>20%
>20%
ments
No.of beneficiaries (000,000)
4
55
% of beneficiaries who are women
40
40
40
% of beneficiaries who are poor
70
70
70
% of infrastructure with O&M  
75
75
75
committees
% of village schools rehabilitated
250
250
250
      2. Poverty
Panel survey findings on poverty
Pos. impact
SUSENAS findings on poverty
      Pos. 
Impact
3. Governance
No. of complaints databases 
25
25
25
published
No. of villages visits By 
100
100
100
journalists
No. of KDP Good governance     
20
150
150
Stipend awards granted
Adoption of agreed Study recommendations
x
Audits, % of  Kecamatans sampled
5%
5%
5%
% of corruption complaints resolved
50
50
            50
% of active participation in BPD
25
            35
            45
% of Kecamatans with DPRD-UDKP      10
25
50
Committees
     4. Sustainability
% of Sub-loans repaid
            80
            80
80
No. of matching Grant Kabupatens
100
150
200
% of infrastructure ranked "good" 70
70
70
Revenue study results
xx
Page  20
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$32,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $16,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $64,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
Page  21
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Category minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished  to  the  Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
