Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19624
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
F7OREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2335-TA)
November 15, 1999
Environment Technical Group
Africa Region
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
|their of filcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 1999)
Currency Unit         Tanzanian Shillings
US$1    =    TSh 800
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CTB             Central Tender Board
DCA             Development Credit Agreement
DFO             District Forest Officer
DPC             Deputy Project Coordinator
ESMAP           Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ESW             Economic and Sector Work
FBD             Forestry and Beekeeping Division
FRMP            Forest Resources Management Project
GIS             Geographic Information System
GOT             Government of Tanzania
GPS             Global Positioning System
IDA             International Development Association
IRA             Institute for Resources Assessment
JFM             Joint Forest Management
MLHSD           Ministry of Lands and Human Settlements Development
MNRT            Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
PC              Project Coordinator
PCC             Project Coordination Committee
PMO             Prime Minister's Office
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
RFEO            Regional Forest Extension Officer
RFO             Regional Forest Officer
RS              Regional Surveyor
SMD             Survey and Mapping Division
TA              Technical Assistance
TAFORI          Tanzania Forestry Research Institute
TANRIC          Tanzania Natural Resources Information Center
TFAP            Tanzania Forestry Action Plan
VEA             Village Extension Agent
TANZANIA'S FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:      James W. Adams, AFMTZ
Sector Director:     Hans Binswanger, AFTRE
Team Leader:        Peter Dewees, AFTEI



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA  FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2335-TA)
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .....................................................................I
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .                                     .....................................................................I
A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES                                  ..........................................................I
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .................................................................................3
C.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .................................................4
General ............             ....... ,.,.4
Project Implementation                                                                                                             .........  4
Strengthening Natural Resources Monitoring and Forest Policies .....................................................4
Strengthening Land Policy and Institutions .             ....................................................6
Strengthening Regional and District Forest Services ....................................................                        7
Organization and Management ............................................ 10
Technical Assistance and Training ............................................                                                    I I
Procurement ...................                                                 ,                                       ,    11
Project Cost and Financing ................... 12
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .......................12
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ................. . 12
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................... 13
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ........................... 1 3
I1. FUTURE OPERATIONS                                                             *fwo** ................ *P .j**e***j  @* w*6******14
1.  LESSONS LEARNED .............................. 14
PART 1I: STATISTICAL TABLES ..............................................................................                               17
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ............................................................................................ 17
TABLE 2:  RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS. .........  .                                                                                    18
TABLE 3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE .......................................................................................... 19
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DiSBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (US$ THOUSANDS) ............. 19
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . .............................................................................. 20
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .......................................                 ..................................... 23
TABLE 7:  ST          UDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ............................................................................ 24
TABLE   8A:   PROJECT   COSTS ............................................................................                           25
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .................................................. .......                                               26
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .................................................. 27
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ................................................... 28
TABLE I 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ..................................................                          30
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .................................................. 31
APPENDICES
A.   Aide Memoire
B.   IBRD Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2335-TA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Forest Resources Management
Project, for which the Credit 2335-TA, in the amount of SDR 13.2 million (US$18.3 million
equivalent), was approved on February 11, 1992 and made effective on July 16, 1992.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1999, one year after the original closing date. Nearly all of the
funds committed under this credit (99.6 percent) were disbursed. The balance of funds
undisbursed (around SDR 52,000) was cancelled on November 15, 1999.
This ICR is based on an earlier draft prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program,
which carried out an ICR mission to Tanzania in March 1999.1 The ICR was finalized by Peter
Dewees (AFTE I), and reviewed by Jean Roger Mercier (Acting Sector Manager, AFTE 1). The
mission's Aide Memoire is included as Appendix A to this report. The Borrower, primarily
through the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
arranged field visits and meetings, commented extensively on the mission's Aide Memoire, and
provided its own assessment of the project and its achievements in a Project Implementation
Overview Report, which can be found in the project files. Comments on the draft ICR have been
solicited from Government. These were received and have been fully incorporated into this
document. Several separate evaluation studies were commissioned of various project activities,
and these, in addition to field visits and project documentation, were used in preparing this
report.
The FAO/CP mission was comprised of Messrs. Pietros Kidane (Mission Leader/Economist, FAO); Donald
Sungusia (Agricultural Services Specialist, World Bank) and Richard Kaguamba (Forestry Specialist, World
Bank).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2335-TA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    During the 1970s and 1980s, there was a widespread perception in Tanzania that
deforestation in some areas was accelerating at very high rates, primarily being driven by
demands for woodfuel and increased demands for construction timber. In some regions, such as
Mwanza, it was believed to have reached alarming levels, posing threats to the future production
of wood and wood products, to household welfare, and to existing ecosystems. The perception
was accurate, but tended to obscure more problematic causes of deforestation, primarily those
associated with the need for agricultural land.
2.    Because of the view that one of the driving causes of deforestation was the demand for
woodfuel, in the mid-1980s, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) launched a study of woodfuel
supply and demand. Government subsequently concluded, not surprisingly, that this approach
would only deal with part of the problem. In order to take a more comprehensive and strategic
view of the sector, it launched preparation of the Tanzania Forestry Action Plan (TFAP), which
was completed in 1989, and which covered the period 1990/91-2007/08. The Tanzania Forest
Resources Management Project (FRMP) was formulated as a first step in implementing the
TFAP.
3.    Consistent with the broad objectives outlined in the TFAP, FRMP's main objectives were
to strengthen institutions in charge of the development of forest and land policies, as well as
regional and district forestry services in selected areas. Project components included: (a)
strengthening natural resources monitoring and forest policy, which focused on the production of
national land use and natural resources maps, the establishment of a natural resources
information center, improvement in royalty collection and the preparation of an assessment of
best practices for forest activities, and of a review of long-term financing needs and options for
the forestry sector; (b) supporting land policies and institutions, including activities related to
village land demarcation, titling and registration; and (c) strengthening regional and district
forest services in Mwanza and Tabora Regions through the provision of training, technical
assistance, equipment and material to enable them to improve forest revenue collection, delivery
of community and farm forestry extension, and the management of woodlands.



Evaluation Summary                        ii
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4.    The project was appraised by IDA in two stages, in October 1990 and May 1991,2 and a
credit of SDR 13.2 million, equivalent to US$18.3 million, was approved on February 11, 1992.
The project was declared effective on July 16, 1992.
Project Implementation Experience
5.    Implementation of the project was initially slow. Project management failed to put in
place the mechanisms for launching activities which were envisaged when the application for
PPF funds was made, and, for example, took more than a year to put in place a full-time Project
Coordinator (PC). Some preparatory tasks, such as the time consuming process of procuring
goods and services, could have been launched earlier, but were instead carried out during the
project implementation period. A shortage of counterpart funds also contributed to delays in the
early years of the project, but this was resolved later when funds became available from the
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (MNRT), retained from royalties collected from the
sale of timber and woodfuel from  forest reserves.  Needed staffing changes were later
implemented which greatly facilitated project implementation.
6.    A joint GOT and IDA mid-term review was carried out in March/April 1996. The MTR
concluded that project implementation was generally satisfactory, and that the original project
objectives continued to be valid. It further acknowledged progress which had been made in
improving project implementation performance.
Project Results
7.    At completion, the project has succeeded in achieving its stated objectives. Institutions
concerned with land and forest administration and management have been strengthened through
the provision of technical assistance, training and the introduction of improved methods of work.
Tanzania's capability for monitoring changes in woodland and forest cover has been greatly
increased by the establishment of the Tanzania Natural Resources Information Center
(TANRIC). A far reaching and innovative new Forest Policy has been adopted, in part based on
inputs prepared with project finance. In Mwanza and Tabora Regions, local forestry institutions
have been strengthened to provide better forestry extension services to communities and
individuals. Some 9,600 private nurseries have been established in these Regions, and about
9.6 million seedlings have been planted. Over 11,000 farmers and school teachers have been
trained in forestry matters, and around 10,500 improved wood stoves have been installed by
farmers in their homes. The project has also developed and introduced a new system of forest
revenue collection, demonstrating that royalty collection from forest reserves can be significantly
increased. Coupled with a revenue retention scheme introduced during the project period, this
has significantly improved the Forestry and Beekeeping Division's (FBD's) financial position.
8.    The project has also piloted several initiatives which have sought to improve natural
forest management, involving communities and individuals. The development of Joint Forest
Management (JFM) in Tabora on a pilot basis, through which the benefits of woodland
management are shared with communities living around reserved forests, has yielded useful
2 The two-stage appraisal process was undertaken because a number of concerns were identified during the
October mission, including insufficient emphasis on priority setting in the TFAP, inadequacy of financial
planning to ensure sustainability and replicability, lack of clarity with regard to seedling pricing policies, and
insufficient progress in the development of policies associated with land management. These concerns were
addressed in subsequent modifications to the project's design.



iii                      Evaluation Summary
lessons. The project has also sought to strengthen traditional systems of woodland management
(ngitiri) through a program of registration and extension, and this is proving to be a cost effective
way of increasing local communities' and individual's responsibility for small blocks of
woodland. The project's support for JFM and ngitiri management has important implications for
reducing poverty associated with constrained access to and control over natural resources.
9.    Important achievements have also been made in strengthening land policies. The project
has supported the preparation of a new Land Policy, which was an outcome of a series of
national and local consultations and which led, ultimately, to passage of new land legislation in
early 1999. Land administration capacities have also been improved, both by investments in
surveying and demarcation, and by computerizing lands records. The methods adopted by the
project for surveying and demarcation have proven to be efficient and time saving, and
consistent with the objectives of the broader land policy framework. The project has demarcated
3,560 villages and surveyed 1,820 villages, slightly more than what had been envisaged at
appraisal.
10.   Extensive private investments in nursery development, tree planting, and in improved
wood stove technologies, facilitated by FRMP, are expected to yield long term benefits (though
lessons in this area are difficult to assess because of weaknesses in the monitoring and evaluation
of the project's extension approaches). In many areas, there is evidence that these activities are
being adopted and extended without further project assistance. The development of other
services supported by the project, for example, services with regard to natural resources
information and land survey and titling, are likely to be sustainable, as new sources of revenues
(coupled with revenue retention schemes) have enabled these service delivery institutions to
reinvest and improve their capabilities. The sustainability of regional and district services is less
certain. Budgetary resources to continue revenue collection activities initiated by the project,3
and for providing extension services are likely to be constrained. For these and other reasons,
GOT is considering significant institutional reforms which should improve the capacity of local
governments to manage forest resources.
Lessons Learned
11.   Lessons which have been leamed during project implementation include that:
*  the concept of strengthening traditional systems of woodland management (ngitiri) is
fundamentally sound and has good replication potential throughout the country. The most
important aspect of the program has been the support it has given to people to act to halt
the disappearance of remaining woodland, and to bring as many pockets of woodland as
possible under rehabilitation. This has been accomplished by working with villagers as
the logical, long-term guardians of forest resources to protect and conserve these
resources themselves, at little cost to government, and through socio-legal mechanisms
which they themselves control and maintain according to their own interests. Potentially
the most important poverty reducing impacts, as a result of the project, have been an
outcome of the ngitiri program.
3 This constraint is not as circular as it appears. Revenues are remitted to FBD, which retains a proportion of them
to cover some of its expenses. Most costs, however, are born by District Forest Officers, and by extension, the
local District administration. Arguably, the linkage between a DFO's budget for revenue collection needs to be
more explicitly tied to the revenues which are generated.



Evaluation Summary                      iv
* Community involvement in Joint Forest Management of government forest reserves can
lead to an improvement in the condition of reserves, and to a sharp reduction in the
threats they face. The pilot approaches could, however, be strengthened particularly in
regard to more fully transferring decision making responsibilities to the communities
involved, rather than simply relying on a modified concession licensing process which
leaves ultimate control in the hands of Government.
* More generally, dry woodland management poses good opportunities because of the
resilience of these woodlands in Tanzania to harvesting, the cost-effectiveness of relying
on natural regeneration with minimal silvicultural treatments, and because of the few
risks to the environment posed by sustainable management of dry woodland ecosystems.
* Farmers are apt at adopting simple technologies that are based on the use of inexpensive
local material, such as the improved wood stoves. Higher-tech approaches are not
needed and are difficult to disseminate through extension. The woodstoves program has
been important for women, primarily of reduced woodfuel demands which are an
outcome of adoption, and the impacts on patterns of household resource allocation.
* Community participation in the demarcation and surveying of village lands is essential
and cost effective, as this reduces litigation among members to a minimum, leading to
considerable savings in time and resources.
* Project identification and preparation benefited from both the resources which were put
into the effort, but also from the longer term iterative process of project design, and the
linkages which were established with sectoral strategies, such as the Tanzania Forestry
Action Plan. Indeed, experience with the project suggests that there can be significant
project implementation benefits when project identification and preparation is bolstered
by strategic studies, action-oriented research, and ESW.
*  Weaknesses in project performance were often linked with inadequacies in the prevailing
institutional mechanisms for forest management in Tanzania. These place responsibility
for forest management within a decentralized institutional structure, without adequate
mechanisms for ensuring there is technical, administrative, and management oversight.
Problems of governance in the sector are linked to these weaknesses, and future
investments will likely be jeopardized in the absence of institutional reforms. The
problem is widely recognized in Government, and the Ministry has made a commitment
to launching a reform process which seeks to address these systemic weaknesses.
* Technical assistance of the type financed by the project may be delivered more
effectively by individual consultants, rather than firms. The grouping of consultancies
into larger packages during the tendering process -- efficiency gains notwithstanding --
limited Government's flexibility in finding qualified individual consultants, and increased
the complexities associated with technical supervision. Consequent deficiencies in
performance were difficult, time consuming, and costly to rectify.
* A Project Coordination Unit may facilitate implementation of project activities in the
short term, but may have little overall impact on increasing institutional implementation
capacity. In this instance, a PCU was justified on the basis of the need for coordination
between multiple institutional partners, but provided little scope for the more general



v                       Evaluation Summary
technical, administrative and management oversight needed in the sector, given its
decentralized institutional structure.
*  Payment of project allowances may encourage project staff to work diligently. Given
public spending constraints, these are not sustainable in the long-term. This is an issue
which must be addressed systematically through the civil service reform process.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
FORESTRY RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2335-TA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.   In the mid-1980s, the Joint World Bank/UNDP Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESMAP) was invited by the Government of Tanzania to assist it in identifying
solutions to the problems posed by increasing demands for woodfuels. There was a widespread
perception that these demands were contributing to deforestation, and a concern that the
country's strategy towards forest resources management needed more fully to consider the scope
for reducing these pressures on the one hand, while increasing supplies on the other. ESMAP
prepared a series of proposals for investment in wood energy production and demand
management, and submitted these to Government and to Bank management for review.
2.   In the meantime, Government began to think more critically about the broader
implications of its approach toward forest and woodland management. Nearly 40 percent of the
country remains under forest or woodland cover, and woodfuels account for only a proportion of
total use, other values being far greater in some respects for catchment protection, timber
production, habitat protection, wild foods, and as a source of dry seasofi grazing for livestock.
As a result, Government sought to develop a more comprehensive approach to the sector, and
prepared, in 1989, the Tanzania Forestry Action Plan, 1990/91 to 2007/08 (TFAP). The TFAP
aimed to tackle forestry issues in a more comprehensive manner, and considered a broader
spectrum of issues of national importance, including forest policy, institutions, and the
participation of the private sector and communities in tree planting and in forest resources
management.
3.    The Forest Resources Management Project (FRMP), prepared on behalf of Government
and the Bank by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, was formulated as a first step in
implementing the TEAP, and had three specific objectives: (a) to strengthen institutions in charge
of the development of forest policies and natural resources information; (b) to support the
development of rural land policies, strengthen crucial organizations in charge of the
implementation of these policies, and to support the implementation and monitoring of
government's policy of village demarcation and titling; and (c) to strengthen regional and district
forestry institutions in Mwanza and Tabora Regions.
4.    Project components comprised:
Strengthening  Natural Resources Monitoring  and  Forest Policies, through:
(i) production of national land use and natural resource maps; (ii) development of a
natural resource information center; (iii) improvement and monitoring of the royalty
collection system; (iv) identification of best practices for forest activities; (v) preparation



Part 1. Implementation Assessment        2
of an action plan for the long-term financing of the forestry subsector; and (vi)
improvement of accommodations for the Forest and Beekeeping Division (FBD) main
offices.
*  Strengthening Land Policies and Institutions, by supporting: (i) the development of
land policies; and (ii) village demarcation, titling and registration.
*  Strengthening Regional and District Forest Services in Mwanza and Tabora. In
Mwanza, activities were to include: (i) survey and planning of the extension program;
(ii) district forest service reorganization; (iii) development and distribution of extension
materials; (iv) community and farm forestry extension; (v) local research and
development; (vi) revenue collection and sharing; and (vii) village woodland and forest
reserve management. In Tabora, a one-year preparatory phase was to include: (i)
vegetation mapping; (ii) reconnaissance surveys/inventories; and (iii) regional forest
resource planning. A second phase, which was to last five years, was proposed and was
to include: (i) forest reserve management; (ii) village woodland management; (iii) applied
research; (iv) community and farm forestry extension; (v) revenue collection; and (vi)
training.
5.    The project, to be implemented over a period of six years, was estimated to cost TSh 6.1
billion, or US$20.93 million, with a foreign exchange component of 68 percent. About 88% of
the project costs were to be financed by IDA, 9% by GOT and about 3% by another donor.4
6.    The management of the project was to be vested with the Ministry of Natural Resources
and Tourism (MNRT), the Ministry of Lands and Human Settlements Development (MLHSD),
and the two Regions. MNRT, through its Forestry and Beekeeping Division (FBD), was to be
responsible for strengthening forest services, and MLHSD was to be responsible for land policy,
village demarcation and registration activities. Tabora and Mwanza Region governments were
to be responsible for implementing forestry and land components in the field.  Project
coordination was to be carried out by a high level Project Coordination Committee (PCC) whose
members would be largely from the two Ministries and two Regions, and from the Prime
Minister's Office (PMO). A Project Coordinator (PC), to be appointed by MNRT, and a Deputy
Project Coordinator (DPC), to be appointed by MLHSD, were to form the secretariat of the PCC.
Three tiers of responsibility for implementation were envisaged for the forestry component:
national level under FBD, regional level under the Regional Forest Officer (RFO); and district
level under the District Forest Officer (DFO). Overall implementation responsibility for the
lands component was to be vested with the Survey and Mapping Division (SMD), but the
Regional Surveyor (RS), who reports to SMD, was to be responsible for the lands component in
each regions.
7.    The project was approved by IDA on February 11, 1992, and a Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), which committed funds totaling SDR 13.2 million, or US$18.3 million, was
signed on April 24, 1992. The Credit was declared effective on July 16, 1992.
4 As indicated in the Staff Appraisal Report, it was expected that NORAD would co-finance the project by
providing US$0.7 million to support the Natural Resources Information Centre. This co-financing did not
materialise and was not considered during the approval and signing of the credit.



3           Part 1. Implementation Assessment
8.    The long period which elapsed from the time the potential for an investment was first
identified (1984) until approval (1992) is worth commenting upon. More than anything, the
elapsed time shows that both the Bank and Government were keen on getting the process right,
and were not willing to move forward with the investment until the parameters were clear.
Arguably - and despite the high costs incurred of identification, preparation, and appraisal - the
reticence to move forward with a project any earlier ensured a stronger level of ownership and
implementation impact. Indeed, this is one of the few forestry projects in the Africa region,
prepared during the 1980s, where intended implementation outcomes and development impacts
have been largely achieved.
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    The project, as it was designed, sought to combine a strong capacity-building program,
with pilot and full-scale development activities. Capacity building focused on strengthening the
institutions charged with forest and land management and administration by improving the basis
for policy development. The project also focused in the first instance on improving
implementation capacity through pilot-scale activities (in particular, Joint Forest Management,
community-based woodland management, revenue collection, and forestry extension), and where
appropriate, undertaking wider-scale activities (in particular, land surveying and demarcation).
At completion, the project had succeeded in meeting most of its stated objectives.
10.   The policy process, for example, has become more fully informed by access to better
information. The project supported the Tanzania Natural Resources Information Center
(TANRIC) which, among other things, has fully-mapped Tanzania's vegetation cover. A series
of policy studies also sought to provide better information during the preparation of new land
and forest policies. These included a review of best practices in the forestry sector, an
assessment of long-term financing in forestry, and a series of papers on land tenure and
administration.
11.   An excellent Forest Policy paper has been produced by FBD, indicating in part its
improved capability for analyzing complex forestry related issues, and defining future sectoral
goals and needs.5 The project has also improved the technical competence of FBD, particularly
in the areas of monitoring royalty collection. By introducing a new system of royalty collection,
regional forest services have demonstrated that royalty collection can be increased markedly, by
closing some loopholes in the system. In addition, they have acquired valuable experience in
forestry extension.
12.   The project has contributed significantly to land policy formulation and improved land
administration by financing studies used in the policy formulation process, and by providing
physical and technical inputs for land surveying and demarcation. Project inputs have helped to
clarify issues related to land matters, and enhanced the development of new land legislation.
During preparation of the land policy, institutions involved in land administration and
management were substantially strengthened by virtue of their participation in the policy
preparation exercise. In addition, the technological know-how of the institutions concerned in
land demarcation and survey, as well as in land registration and titling, has been stepped up. In
5 The Forestry and Beekeeping Division noted, in its review of the draft ICR that, "The good quality of the Forest
Policy paper is not the contribution of FRMP alone but also other stakeholders who were consulted and the
consultants who were recruited to assist in the policy preparation."



Part 1. Implementation Assessment       4
particular, as a result of the acquisition of Global Positioning System (GPS) technology, training,
and improvements in mobility, the project has significantly raised productivity in land
demarcation and surveying.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
General
13.  In order to expedite project execution, IDA approved a Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advance (US$650,000) to finance preparatory tasks for project implementation, including the
recruitment of staff, procurement of equipment, material and civil works, as well as for planning
of activities and preparation of tendering documents. However, the PPF was not used, mainly
due to communication difficulties between various GOT departments.  This meant that
preparatory tasks had to be carried out during the time envisaged for implementation, hence
delaying project start-up. The PCC and the PC were in place before the credit was negotiated,
although the post of PC was vacated soon after the project was declared effective, following his
promotion as Director of FBD. A new PC was appointed only in August 1993. Implementation
performance was impaired in the first year by shortage of funds, staff, office facilities and delays
in opening project accounts in the Regions. In addition, the then-Director of FBD gave limited
institutional and logistical support to the project, and arguably hampered implementation by
delaying, among other things, the tender processes for the proposed new HQ building, and the
introduction of the pilot revenue collection scheme.
14.   Slight improvements in implementation were evident in the second year, following the
recruitment of some staff and the procurement of a few vehicles. However, significant progress
was recorded only in the third year, when the recruitment of consultants was virtually completed,
and procurement of vehicles and other equipment and material was stepped up.6 By this time,
most serious implementation problems were resolved, except those related to the shortage of
GOT counterpart funds, particularly with regard to forestry activities. Major funding crises were
avoided mainly due to IDA's agreement to continue financing 100% of operational costs until
60% of this cost category was disbursed, and due to increased use of FBD funds retained from
revenue collection.
15.  In March/April 1996, a mid-term review was carried out for the project by a joint GOT
and IDA team. This review confirmed the validity of the original project objectives, and
expressed its satisfaction about the project's progress. The original project closing date of June
30, 1998 was extended twice: first to March 31, 1999, and then June 30, 1999. At completion,
the credit was fully disbursed.
Project Implementation
Strengthening Natural Resources Monitoring and Forest Policies
16.   Land Use and Natural Resources Mapping. In mid 1997, the project had successfully
produced the country-wide maps envisaged under the project, albeit with about two and half
6 Significantly, a new Director of FBD was appointed around this time, and provided an important boost to project
implementation.



5          Part 1. Implementation Assessment
years delay from the original plans. The 64 map sheets produced by the project were based on
the most recent satellite imagery, and, among other things, they show general classes of forest
cover and agricultural and settlement areas. They also provide baseline information on the
different uses of land, and this has facilitated the tasks of assessing natural resources and
preparing forestry development plans. Another use of the maps has been for regular monitoring
of forest resources and changes in land use.  The maps are widely used by different
governmental and non-governmental organizations. The PCC had originally intended that they
should be produced in the facilities of SMD, and the project financed improvements in SMD's
printing facilities. In spite of these improvements, the maps were produced abroad because it was
more cost-effective.
17.   Natural Resource Information Center. In line with project objectives, the Tanzania
Natural Resources Information Center (TANRIC) was established by the Institute for Resources
Assessment (IRA) of the University of Dar es Salaam. The project provided technical assistance,
computers and other office equipment, and funds for purchasing satellite imagery, maps and for
ground survey staff. Training in geographic information system (GIS) was also provided under
the project. TANRIC now maintains a considerable information base on natural resources and
has capabilities for collecting and analyzing data and delivering the latest infornation to
customers. The demand for its services is increasing, and its business has enabled it to become
nearly self-supporting.
18.   Improvement and Monitoring of Royalty Collection Systems. The project proposed
to develop a revenue reporting system, introduce a pilot phase of revised revenue collection
method, undertake a feasibility study of assessing fee collection from woodfuel used for tobacco
curing, and evaluate during the mid-term review the success of the new system. Because of the
delay in recruiting consultants, a new revenue system was introduced only in 1996, initially in
the four pilot regions, i.e. Tabora, Shinyanga, Singida and Mwanza, and later extended to all the
regions. The system consisted of registering business ventures in harvesting, processing and
trading of forest products, as well as establishing checkpoints and stepping up forest patrolling
activities.
19.   Collection of revenue levels improved soon after the introduction of the new system in
the four pilot regions from about TSh 90.72 million in 1996 to TSh 277.86 million and
TSh 299.17 million for 1997 and 1998, respectively. The increase of revenue in Mwanza was a
major jump from TSh 8.70 million in 1996 to TSh 103.0 million in 1998. The contrast between
the high collection of revenues of Mwanza, which has few forest resources, and the low
collection of Tabora, which has heavy woodland cover, is explained by failure of the collection
efforts in Tabora. Mwanza was collecting revenues mainly from wood that was coming from
Tabora. In spite of the overall 3-fold increase of revenue, this amount still represents a small
portion of the potential revenue which could be collected country-wide.
20.   An evaluation of the pilot revenue collection system was carried out at the project's
completion. The evaluation attributed weaknesses in the system to deficiencies in data collection
and monitoring, poor patrolling, corruption, and an inadequate institutional structure for
managing and supervising field staff. The evaluation report also suggested that clear instructions
were not provided to DFOs and RFOs, and that this has resulted in divergent, rather than
standardized approaches, being taken in the field. With regard to spot checking of timber in
transit, the evaluation report observed the difficulty of accomplishing this task effectively,



Part I. Implementation Assessment       6
because of insufficient information about the timber being transported in terms of number of
logs, size, quality and species.
21.   Some of the difficulties in revenue collection have arisen due to the current institutional
structure which is characterized primarily by organizational fragmentation. Although central
government forest reserves are under the jurisdiction of FBD, they are managed by the RFOs and
DFOs, who are employed by the Regional and District Administrations, respectively. FBD has
only limited technical and administrative oversight. DFOs, who are responsible for revenue
collection, are not subject to supervision by FBD, and may instead give priority to district
matters. FBD shares part of the revenues it collects with the RFOs, but not directly with DFOs.
In order to obviate these difficulties, MNRT is considering significant institutional reforms
which will address this and other institutional constraints to the management of Tanzania's
woodland resources.
22.   Studies on Best Practices for Forest Activities and Long-Term  Financing of
Forestry. FBD recruited consultants to undertake these two studies. The study on best practices
provided useful and innovative ideas on many issues, including the involvement of local
communities in the management of public lands and forest reserves, and of the private sector in
the management of plantations. The findings and recommendations of this study have, in many
respects, been incorporated into the new Forest Policy and have been reflected in the wider
policy framework. FRMP financed studies, workshops and seminars as an input into the
development of the new Forest Policy,7 and these also contributed to improved capacity for
management in the sector. The study on long-term financing has provided useful information on
the valuation of forest products and recommended a change of the current valuation system. The
study indicated that self-financing of future forestry operations would be guaranteed, if effective
collection of the revenues could be assured.
23.   Improvement of Infrastructure. The project proposed to resolve FBD's problem of
limited office space by constructing offices on a government site in Dar es Salaam. Although an
initial design for the structure was developed before project appraisal, and architects were
appointed at the end of 1993, FBD did not succeed in having its new headquarters built. Last
minute changes in site plans and excessive delays in advertising tenders did not allow tenders to
be finalized or awarded by the end of July 1997 (the latest deadline agreed with IDA).
Consequently, the construction of the building not undertaken, and funds were reallocated to
other project components.
Strengthening Land Policy and Institutions
24.   Land Policy Development. Land related studies envisaged under the project were
modified in mid-1993 to include support for the process of land policy formulation. Consultants
were recruited to assist this important GOT policy fornulation exercise, which was completed
with the adoption of a National Land Policy by Cabinet in April 1994. The Land Policy
eventually led to the passage by Parliament of new legislation in February 1999 (the Land Act
and the Village Land Act).
25.   Lands Records Storage and Management. The project also assisted MLHSD in
improving the organization of land records and cadastral information system. Following a
7 The preparation of the Policy itself was led by FBD, with donor support from GTZ.



7          Part 1. Implementation Assessment
review of the poor state of land records storage and management, a plan was drawn up to save
the critical infornation contained in the deteriorating records by storage in a computerized data
base. To this end, the project developed a system of computerized data management, and
provided staff training, technical assistance, computers and other office equipment.  At
completion, the project succeeded in introducing a system for the safe storage and easy use of
land records. About 45.000 records, or some 18% of the total, have been computerized.
26.   Village Demarcation, Titling and Registration.  It had been envisaged that
demarcation, survey and titling of village lands would take place in five regions. Plans were
later extended to cover eleven regions. Project activities commenced with demarcation, and
progress accelerated after the mid-term review of the project, when staff mobility improved.
Demarcation activities were undertaken with the involvement of the villagers, a process which
was an important project accomplishment. Demarcation of village lands was completed in
Dodoma, Morogoro, Singida, Tabora, Shinyanga, Mwanza, Mara, Ruvuma and Kagera regions.
Small areas of Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions remain undemarcated, pending settlement of
disputed boundaries. Final surveying commenced only in August 1998 due to the delayed arrival
of the necessary equipment, particularly the GPS units. Once the equipment was in hand,
however, the process of surveying progressed rapidly.  At completion, the project has
demarcated about 3,560 villages and surveyed some 1,820 villages. Following the adoption of
the new land policy, the original plan to issue village land title to the village administrations was
changed, and village councils are provided with an administrative certificate (rather than title)
describing their boundaries, together with the boundary maps, of their respective villages.
Strengthening Regional and District Forest Services
27.   Forestry Extension. The project proposed to develop innovative approaches for forestry
extension, and to establish high quality baseline information for an effective monitoring and
evaluation system. Technical assistance inputs were expected to assist in accomplishing this
task. These did not materialize as intended, because the consultants who were contracted to
assist the regions failed to focus on developing alternative extension approaches. What emerged
was a traditional forestry extension approach that simply promoted tree planting, with little
understanding of the social and economic factors which influence household decision-making in
this regard, or any appreciation about how tree and woodland management could be incorporated
into land-use practices.
28.   Having said this, the project did build on earlier experiences in Mwanza by providing
support for Village Extension Agents (VEAs) who had been designated by villagers as focal
points for receiving technical messages and training in nursery and tree planting techniques. The
main topics covered by forestry extension were tree planting, woodland management, improved
stoves and Joint Forest Management (JFM) of Government forest reserves. Tree planting by
individuals, groups and institutions was by far the most common extension activity. Extension
messages and training in nursery techniques, species selection, tree planting and tending were,
therefore, given to a large number of individuals and to an appreciable number of institutions,
particularly schools. Some 9,600 nurseries of different sizes have been established in both
regions, and about 9.6 million seedlings have been produced - about 104% of appraisal target.
The project contacted about 37,600 households and provided training to over 11,000 farners and
school teachers. In addition to delivery of extension messages, tree planting was promoted
through the provision of tree seeds, polythene tubes and pesticides free of charge -- a practice



Part 1. Implementation Assessment           8
which is not sustainable. Ultimately, however, the impact of the extension program cannot be
fully assessed due to the failure of consultants to assist in establishing a monitoring and
evaluation system. This is as pressing a need as ever, because of the importance of understanding
the incentives of the private sector to respond to perceived needs for tree planting.
29.   Despite the weak support provided for the development of new  approaches toward
forestry extension, the project did support two particular sets of initiatives which were relatively
unconventional. The first involved building on traditional practices of setting aside tracts of land
for later or emergency use. Originally a concept which was applied to grazing areas, ngitiri, the
project extended the idea to residual pockets of woodlands. The second approach was an effort
to share the benefits and responsibilities for the management of Government Forest Reserves
with communities through what was called Joint Forest Management (JFM). An independent
evaluation of the project's ngitiri and JFM activities was carried out prior to the ICR mission.
30.   One of the main observations made about the ngitiri program (which began on a modest
scale in Mwanza, and then was adopted in Tabora) was that it did not go far enough in
reconstructing and modernizing the concept. This is partly because the approach only received
halting support from the technical advisers who were engaged to provide assistance in this area.
In some areas, ngitiri were simply registered, and there was inattention given to: where and how
authority over common land ngitiri is lodged; to guiding villagers about protection strategies;
and to encouraging villagers to exploit the considerable powers they possess to regulate access,
use and management actions in general. The evaluation also noted the large discrepancies in the
areas reported to be under ngitiri management, and suggested that hectarage was, in any event,
not an appropriate measure of success. Rather, the reviewer noted, the value of ngitiri is in the
support it gives to ordinary people to act to halt the disappearance of woodland, and to bring as
many pockets of woodland as possible under rehabilitation. Dismissing ngitiri as insignificant
because they are small (as the technical advisers seemed to have done) is unwarranted, simply
because they are highly significant to their owners. The evaluation concluded that the ngitiri
concept is fundamentally sound, and has good replication potential throughout the country. The
most positive aspects of the ngitiri program are those which targeted villagers as the logical,
long-term guardians of forest resources, and which work with them to protect and conserve these
resources themselves, at little cost to government, and through socio-legal mechanisms which
they themselves control and maintain according to their own interests.
31.   Joint Forest Management was an approach adopted on a pilot basis in the Urumwa Forest
Reserve, a 13,000 ha reserve 15 km or so from Tabora. In practice, 7 user groups have entered
into contractual arrangements with Government which provide them with exclusive harvesting
rights of specified small coupe areas in return for protecting these and other areas from illegal
use. In addition, each household within each user group is supposed to pay an annual fee of
TSh 500. The evaluation concluded on the one hand, that community involvement in Urumwa
had led to an improvement in the condition of the Reserve, and to a sharp reduction in the threats
it faces, but on the other, that (like the ngitiri effort), the approach taken didn't go far enough,
particularly in regard to more fully transferring decision making responsibilities to the
communities involved.8 The evaluation also noted that there had been a number of very positive
s The development of a genuine partnership between Government and communities has been challenging. For
example, the first contracts in Urumwa were prepared by Government, with little input from communities, and
they covered only one year. The contracts did not have a regulatory regime that specified the rights and duties of
the participants in the arrangement. They were also not supported by management plans which incorporated



9          Part 1. Implementation Assessment
shifts during implementation in the narrow approach originally proposed, and that this suggested
some interesting opportunities for expanding upon a significantly modified approach in future.
32.   An important project achievement, not foreseen at appraisal, was the introduction of
improved stoves. The wood stoves which have been introduced by the project are simple to
construct and made from local material. At completion, some 10,500 stoves had been constructed
and installed in homes. The extension method is based on showing women how to install stoves
by actually constructing them, and letting each person to replicate the process separately or in a
team. This approach has had a domino effect, as the trained women are showing others how to
construct the stoves wherever they go. Until now, the main emphasis was on promoting wood
stoves, but improved charcoal stoves, manufactured by women, are also being introduced by the
project. Studies carried out by project staff indicate that the improved stoves are more woodfuel
efficient, and a saving of about 50 percent of woodfuel is obtained compared to the traditional
stoves.
33.  In retrospect, this diversified set of approaches toward land, woodland, and woodfuel
management have likely been far more effective than any single approach, combining
community-based woodland management, with tree planting, and woodfuel demand
management. This was a constructive strategy, which shows promise for being effective in
mitigating the impacts of increased population growth on natural habitats. The project's primary
impacts associated with gender have been an outcome of its support for woodstoves
development, and for ngitiris and Joint Forest Management.
34.   Similarly, the most significant impacts on rural poverty, which are outcomes of the
project, are associated with its support for the introduction of systems of ngitiri management,
Joint Forest Management, and woodstoves. This integration into the project of these approaches
which strengthened the control over natural resource assets by communities, and individuals, and
which reduced, so clearly, household dependence on woodfuels, is likely to have a profound long
term impact on natural environments, and on the households which are so dependent on these
resources for their sustainable livelihood.
35.   Forest Reserve Management.  Appraisal expectations of preparing detailed forest
management plans for priority forest reserves were never met. A considerable amount of work
was carried out in Geita, but this has been undermined because of mining interests. These
interests were identified during appraisal, but were never effectively managed during
implementation. The proposed inventory for priority forest reserves in Tabora was not
completed in time, hence management plans could not be prepared before the departure of the
technical assistance personnel. There is, however, general agreement that implementation of the
plans would have been problematic in any event because of encroachment and illegal timber
harvesting and charcoal production.
36.   The problem of encroachment was not evident at project preparation or at appraisal, and
its development during the project implementation period coincided with the many political and
economic reforms which took place in these years. The situation has been exacerbated by low
levels of protection due to shortages of forest guards and by a lack of interest in dealing with the
problem at the district-level, particularly by district forestry staff, who are supposed to be the
technical, procedural and legal elements acceptable to all parties. These deficiencies have been widely noted,
and form the basis for modifications in the approach.



Part ]. Implementation Assessment          10
front line officers for the management and protection of forest reserves. Indeed, the problem of
encroachment captures the difficulty of working at the local level through a fragmented,
decentralized, institutional structure to protect assets which are in the national interest. Despite
Government's efforts to deal with encroachment through other non-project mechanisms,9
problems still persist. Illegal logging and charcoal production continue in many regions. If
anything, the problems of encroachment suggest considerable latitude for greatly strengthening
the involvement of communities in the direct control and management over forest and woodland
resources.
37.   The project had carried out aerial photography of some forest reserves of Tabora as an
input to the management plans, and these are currently with TANRIC. It is hoped that these will
be useful for preparing management plans for some forest reserves in the future. In the forest
reserves of Tabora region, the project cleared around 940 km of boundaries (which had
deteriorated since the early 1970s), and these have served to separate the reserves from other
types of land use and ownership. Boundary patrolling by bicycle and motorcycle was also
reintroduced during the project period. Under the project, applied research in miombo woodland
management is being carried out by the Tanzania Forestry Research Institute (TAFORI), and it is
hoped that important technical advice for managing woodlands will emerge in the future.
Although the research started only in 1996, some experiments, focusing on regeneration
characteristics of clearfelled woodlands, and understorey burning as a management tool, appear
to offer promising results.
Organization and Management
38.   When the project resolved its start-up problems, the management went into its full
strength and assumed its expected role in facilitating the work of the implementation agencies.
The PCC met regularly to review and approve project work plans and to resolve eventual issues.
The PC provided continuous support to regional project staff, and facilitated linkages with other
concerned bodies. The DPC has also provided similar support to project staff implementing the
land component. Weak institutional support during the earliest stages of project implementation
became much less of an issue with the appointment of a new director of FBD.
39.   Implementation plans were prepared based on the existing GOT organizational structure,
which was characterized by a fragmented line of institutional responsibility. Implementation of
the components regarding natural resources monitoring and forest policies were vested with
FBD/PCU. However, in the field, the RFOs were given the responsibility for implementing the
project at the regional level and for coordinating and monitoring district level activities, while
DFOs were in charge of the actual implementation of project activities in the districts. Even the
flow of funds to the field offices was different i.e. through FBD/PCU to the regional accounts,
and through PMO/PCU to the district accounts. Since the regions and the districts have their
respective programs in their areas of jurisdiction, and since they are answerable to the
commissioners in the regions and districts, the RFOs and DFOs tended to implement the project
along their habitual independent manners. In this process, FBD felt neglected and with little
ownership for the project, although it was still expected to have overall responsibility for
9 During the project period, around 1,200 illegally encroaching people were evicted from forest reserves in Tabora
Region, but this was undertaken without the involvement of project staff or funds. Large numbers are also
believed to have moved from reserved areas voluntarily because of a public campaign against illegal
encroachment, and following clarification of boundaries.



1]         Part 1. Implementation Assessment
implementation.  Early during implementation, FBD expressed its misgivings about the
independent mindedness of the RFOs and about its own limited involvement in implementation,
because even the staff it seconded to the regions, i.e. the RFEOs, were answerable to the RFOs.
Project management tried to resolve the issue by requesting the RFOs to keep FBD informed on
all project related matters. The RFOs, in turn, complained about the independent-mindedness of
the DFOs, although they were meant to coordinate and monitor district level activities. Such
problems did not occur with regard to the land component, because this was being implemented
by the Director of SMD through the RS.
40.   The diffused line of command did not facilitate the emergence of a clear organizational
set-up for implementing the forestry component.  Despite these difficulties, the ad hoc
organization and management system put in place by the project (i.e. the PCC and PCU), has
been successful in implementing the complex development program under FRMP. However, the
wisdom of establishing a management system that artificially tended to centralize activities that
have been long decentralized, is questionable, although has been justified as a necessary
mechanism to coordinate the activities of two ministries and multiple other players. Still, it
points to the weakness of the overall institutional structure for forest management in Tanzania
within which the project operated.
Technical Assistance and Training
41.   The project has provided a strong technical assistance input. In addition to short-term
individual consultancies, five firms have provided medium to long-term technical assistance in
the fields of natural resources mapping, resource information, improvement of royalty collection,
extension forestry, natural resources management, land policy development, improvement of
land records and registration and design of FBD headquarters. Excluding the architectural
consultancy, a total of 662 person months (385 expatriate and 277 local) of technical assistance
was provided by these firms. Performance was, on balance, satisfactory, though one firm was
especially deficient in the areas of forestry extension, natural forest management, and monitoring
and evaluation. This experience has raised concerns about the need for stronger technical
supervision, which FBD argues it can only provide when individuals, rather than firms, are
involved. A large training program was also provided under the project, and this has helped
implementation in the field. Most of the training focused on improving the operational
capabilities of staff in the fields of forestry extension and management and on demarcation and
survey of land. The training program consisted primarily of short-term courses and study tours.
Procurement
42.   Procurement was carried out by the PCU and by the Central Tender Board (CTB). The
procedure followed was to deliver the tendering documents prepared by PCU to CTB, after a "no
objection" was given by IDA. After being reviewed, the tenders were advertised by CTB and
bids were directly received and opened by it. The bids were then sent to the PCU for evaluation.
Following the reviewing of the evaluation made by the PCU, and having satisfied itself of the
result, an approval for awarding the contract was given by CTB to the PCU. This system has
worked out quite well in most cases, although some delays were encountered in few cases due to
CTB's numerous queries. The only major procurement problem faced by the project resulted in
the failure to construct the FBD headquarters.. FBD management submitted the evaluations only
in November 1997, about three months after the last deadline set by IDA for forwarding the



Part 1. Implementation Assessment       12
contract. CTB's approval had been obtained in April 1998, which was too late to commence and
finish construction by the project's closing date. Delays in the procurement of GPS units were
also experienced due to several misunderstandings resulting from a lack of clarity about IDA
procurement procedures for reviewing contract modifications.
43.   With regard to the procurement of consultants, the advantages of seeking tenders from
firns to provide the several packages of services needed were sometimes offset by the
difficulties of supervising staff provided by these firms. FBD has expressed a decided reticence
to rely, in future operations, on firms to provide TA support, and may seek instead to recruit
individual consultants to provide closely supervised advisory services. The perception is very
much that firms provided higher cost services, and produce lower quality outputs. Nonetheless,
it is also clear that FBD needs to monitor performance more closely, and insist on the delivery of
acceptable outputs and services from both individuals and firms.
Project Cost and Financing
44.   Total project costs at completion amounted to US$19.40 million or TSh 7,369 million.
The IDA credit of SDR 13.2 million was nearly fully disbursed, and over the life of the project,
the value of the credit increased from US$18.3 million to US$ 18.8 million, due to the
depreciation of the US$ in relation to the SDR. The balance, amounting to about US$0.55
million or 4% of total costs, was financed by GOT. About 66% of the costs were expended on
the forestry component, and the remainder 34% on the lands component. Undisbursed project
funds, totaling around SDR 52,000, were cancelled in November, 1999.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
45.   Activities supported by the project which are now privately operated, such as private
nursery development, wood stoves, and the tending of on-farm trees, will be sustainable.
Activities under TANRIC and the lands component are also likely to be sustainable, because
services for natural resources information, or for land surveying and titling are being provided
against payment for services rendered. Some service delivery institutions will be allowed to
retain funds obtained from customers to finance their operations. Sustainability of continuing the
services provided by the field forestry services, will, however, depend on the level of support
that these will receive from GOT. Based on past experience regarding GOT's difficulties in
providing adequate budget, it is likely that funding will be a constraint. This may put their
sustainability in doubt, although FBD's stand in financing forestry development has improved
markedly with the increase in revenue collection. Indeed, preliminary estimates suggest that rates
of revenue collection have continued to increase since4 the project's closing. The current proposal
for establishing a separate executive agency, with complete operational autonomy to be
responsible for the management of the forest reserves, may create opportunities for higher levels
of revenue collection and better management of the forests.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
46.   Overall, the performance of IDA has been satisfactory, both during project preparation
and appraisal, as well as throughout project supervision. By being involved in the identification
and preparation stages of the project - as an executing agency of ESMAP and as a participant in
the FAO preparation mission - IDA has kept track of the project progress, and contributed to its



13          Part 1. Implementation Assessment
formulation. As one of the main players in the preparation of the TFAP, it has also succeeded in
bringing about strong linkages between the project and the TFAP. Appraisal of the project,
which was carried out in two phases, was adequate. The different project components and
activities were clearly described and sufficiently detailed. In retrospect, it can be argued that
preference should have been given to designing a project organization and management within
the existing GOT structure, instead of creating an ad hoc project coordination unit. IDA
undertook 10 full supervision missions, which were generally carried out efficiently. The
missions' professional mix was well balanced between the forest and lands components. The
supervision missions provided useful advice both to GOT and IDA for the resolution of
implementation problems. An example of such is the recommendation to IDA to keep
disbursement against operating costs at a higher level in order to give chance to GOT to sort out
its funding problems, which at that time were constrained by a particularly tight budget. One
noteworthy weakness in supervision was the failure by the initial missions to work with the
implementing agencies to put in place more effective mechanisms for using PPF funds.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
47.   The Borrower's performance was generally satisfactory. During the formulation of the
project, GOT took its time until it was satisfied that the project fitted well within the TFAP. This
has given the project an opportunity to benefit from new forestry development approaches that
highlighted the importance of policy and institutional matters and people's participation in
forestry development. During the implementation period, GOT gave strong political support to
the project through the PCC and its high level members. This GOT stance was an important
asset to the project, as it was clearly perceived by staff at all levels as a reflection of firm
government commitment to the project in particular, and to the development and management of
natural resources in general. Some deficiencies in project implementation were experienced
during the initial years, viz., non-use of PPF, delayed replacement of the PC and inadequate
counterpart funding. These were, however, later resolved. with changes in senior staff, and their
effects nullified towards the end of project implementation. The only difficulty that remained
throughout the project period was related to the construction of FBD headquarters. The failure to
finalize the necessary preparations and studies for the FBD headquarters was a major
shortcoming and a missed opportunity for the Division in improving its working conditions and
operational efficiency.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
48.   The project has met nearly all of its objectives as it has strengthened the institutions
responsible for administering and managing the country's forests and land, and hence
contributed towards improved management of natural resources. The project has assisted in a
significant manner in the formulation of both the Forest and Land Policies. The Land Policy has
led to the enactment of new land legislation. An important achievement of the lands component
was also the strengthening of the departments engaged in land surveying, recording and
registration by improving their working capabilities through the provision of equipment, training
and the introduction of modern working methods, such as using the GPS technology. The survey
of village lands will be useful for land use planning and for land administration at the village
level. Within the forestry component, the promotion of private nurseries has enabled the
increased production of tree seedlings. The tree seedlings produced and planted under the
project are estimated to cover about 3,500 ha of land, and this will positively contribute to the



Port 1. Implementation Assessment        14
future supply of construction poles and woodfuel. The stoves are already helping families to
reduce their woodfuel consumption due to their improved efficiency. The economic rate of
return of the tree planting and wood stoves program has been estimated at 12%, which is
adequate and in line with appraisal findings. One of the most tangible project results has been
the marked increase in royalty collection, and the demonstration that this could be further
improved. The project was not successful in constructing new, and badly needed Headquarter
facilities for FBD.
49.   The project has also strengthened the forestry services in the two regions through training
and improved mobility, and are now capable of undertaking much larger programs with more
confidence, given their experience under the project. The introduction of ngitiri and JFM has
stimulated people to think in terms of participatory management of the country's forest resources,
and is expected to direct future development efforts to more cost effective and sustainable
management systems. The project has also contributed to reducing the rate of encroachment in
forest reserves in Tabora by establishing boundaries and by supporting the physical presence of
patrolling Forest Officers. The phenomena of generalized encroachment on forest reserves
coincided with the implementation of the project, and it is believed by practitioners in Tanzania
Lhat the incidence of encroachment in Tabora would have been far more dramatic if the project
was not being implemented there.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
50.   During the final year of implementation, each of the implementing agencies prepared an
operational plan which outlined activities which would be undertaken after the project's closing
date. GOT has expressed its commitment to providing necessary funds to FBD and to regional
and district forest services to continue the activities initiated by the project. It is unlikely that
forestry staff will receive incentive payments provided under FRMP, and the impact of this on
staff performance could be potentially unfavorable.  This is a systemic problem, evident
wherever mechanisms are put in place to increase project effectiveness in the short term, without
ad.dressing the wider framework in the context of civil service reform.
51.   Among other things, Government has made its intention clear to follow up on the
institutional reforms proposed in FRMP, and to establish a new autonomous forest agency with
greater responsibilities for service delivery than the current institutional structure. The challenge
will be to support a substantive change in the rationale for a publicly funded forest service, from
one which is fundamentally oriented towards regulation and control, to one which is oriented
t1P7-oard the provision of services for rural communities. A future Bank-financed operation is in
preparation, which will seek to develop some of the lessons from FRMP, and which will
Mcorporate biodiversity conservation objectives.
52.   With regard to the lands component, future operations will continue under the normal
business undertaking of the SMD, as this institution is expected to receive sufficient funds from
its Ministry, because of increased revenue collection.
I.   LESSONS LEARNED
53    Lessons which have been learned during project implementation include that:



15          Part 1. Implementation Assessment
* the concept of strengthening traditional systems of woodland management (ngitiri) is
fundamentally sound and has good replication potential throughout the country. The most
important aspect of the program has been the support it has given to people to act to halt the
disappearance of remaining woodland, and to bring as many pockets of woodland as possible
under rehabilitation. This has been accomplished by working with villagers as the logical,
long-term guardians of forest resources to protect and conserve these resources themselves,
at little cost to government, and through socio-legal mechanisms which they themselves
control and maintain according to their own interests.
* Community involvement in Joint Forest Management of government forest reserves can lead
to an improvement in the condition of reserves, and to a sharp reduction in the threats they
face. The pilot approaches could, however, be strengthened particularly in regard to more
fully transferring decision making responsibilities to the communities involved.
* More generally, dry woodland management poses good opportunities because of the
resilience of the woodland to harvesting, the cost-effectiveness of relying on natural
regeneration with minimal silvicultural treatments, and because of the few risks to the
environment posed by sustainable management of dry woodland ecosystems.
* Farmers are apt at adopting simple technologies that are based on the use of inexpensive
local material, such as the improved wood stoves. Higher-tech approaches are not needed
and are difficult to disseminate through extension.
* Community participation in the demarcation and surveying of village lands is essential and
cost effective, as this reduces litigation among members to a minimum, leading to
considerable savings in time and resources.
* Project identification and preparation benefited from both the resources which were put inito
the effort, but also from the longer term iterative process of project design, and the linkages
which were established with sectoral strategies, such as the Tanzania Forestry Action Plan.
Indeed, experience with the project suggests that there can be significant project
implementation benefits when project identification and preparation is bolstered by strategic
studies, action-oriented research, and ESW.
* Weaknesses in project performance were often linked with inadequacies in the prevailing
institutional mechanisms for forest management in Tanzania. These place responsibility for
forest management within a decentralized institutional structure, without adequate
mechanisms for ensuring there is technical, administrative, and management oversight.
Problems of governance in the sector are linked to these weaknesses, and future investments
will likely be jeopardized in the absence of institutional reforms. The problem is widely
recognized in Government, and the Ministry has made a commitment to launching a reform
process which seeks to address these systemic weaknesses.
* Technical assistance of the type financed by the project may be delivered more effectively if
individual consultants are selected on the basis of professional competence and experience.
The packaging of consultancies into larger packages during the tendering process limited
Government's flexibility in finding qualified individual consultants, though some efficiencies
were gained. However, consequent deficiencies in performance were difficult, time



Part 1. Implementation Assessment           16
consuming, and costly to rectify. Technical supervision of advisory services needs to be
strengthened and supported.
*  A Project Coordination Unit may facilitate implementation of project activities, but may have
little overall impact on increasing institutional capacity. In this instance, a PCU was justified
on the basis of the need for coordination between multiple institutional partners, but provided
little scope for the technical oversight needed in the sector.
*  Payment of project allowances may encourage project staff to work diligently; but, given
public spending constraints, is not sustainable in the long-term.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                       E             El           El 
Sector policies                      [E                         El            El
Financial objectives                 [7]           El           El            El
Institutional development                         El            FEl           El
Physical objectives                                El           El            El
Poverty reduction                    E[K]                       El            El
Gender issues                                     E             El            El
Other social objectives              E            [              l            E
Environmental objectives             F             E            E             E
Public sector management             E                          El            El
Private sector development           El                         E             El
Other (specify)                      E             E            E             E
B. Project sustainability            Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                     E                          El
Preparation assistance             E           [              E
Appraisal                          E                          El
Supervision                        E                          El]



Part 2. Statistical Tables                        18
Highly
D. Borrower performance           satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                      E            m            E
Implementation                    2           m            F
Covenant compliance              F  
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose            Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. Sao Hills Forestry   Establish industrial            1976             Completed
Project                 plantations
2. Sao Hills Forestry   Expand industrial               1982             Completed
Project, Phase II       plantations
Following operations
1. Agricultural Research   Strengthen agricultural      1998              On-going
research, including agro-
forestry



19                       Part 2. Statistical Tables
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned                   D Date actual/
l  l                                    latest estimate
Identification             1984 - 1988 "                   1984-88
Preparation                March 1990                      March 1990
Appraisal                  September/October 1990          September/October 1990
Post-Appraisal             May 1991                        May 1991
Negotiations               December 9 to 12, 1991          December 9 to 12, 1991
Board presentation         February 11, 1992               February 11, 1992
Signing                    April 24, 1992                  April 24, 1992
Effectiveness              July 16, 1992                   July 16, 1992
Mid-term review            March 14 to April 12, 1996      March 14 to April 12, 1996
Project completion         March 1999                      March 1999
Loan closing               June 30, 1998                   June 30, 1999
l ____________________      March  31, 1999
1 This period was not continuous. The project identification process commenced in late 1984 when GOT carried out a
woodfuel study with the assistance of ESMAP. More in-depth studies were commissioned by ESMAP in 1986, and
completed in 1988, with the preparation of a project document that was entitled Woodfuel/Forestry Project. This
document became one of the main sources of information during the formulation of FRMP.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ thousands)
FY 93    FY94    FY95    FY 96    FY97    FY 98    FY 99
Appraisal estimate          4,156    9,103    11,847   14,803   16,742   18,330           -
Actual                      1,000    1,710      5,840    9,720   14,210   16,730    18,620
Actualas%ofestimate            24       19        49        66        85      91        102
Date of final disbursement
" Due to the depreciation of the US$ vis-A-vis the SDR, disbursement expressed in US$ is over 100% of what
had been estimated at appraisal.



Part 2. Statistical Tables                        20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators          Unit         [    Estimated      1        Actual
A. Natural Resources
Monitoring/Forestry
Production of natural resource  64 map sheets         To be produced by    Produced in 1997
maps                            covering the country    1995
Establishment of a natural      One full-fledged      To be established by   Completed in 1998
resource information centre     information centre    1998
Introduction of new royalty     Introduction of new   To be introduced by   Introduced in 1996
collection system               Procedures            1995
Preparation of a new forest policy   A new policy     Not foreseen at     Accomplished in 1998
approved by GOT      appraisal
Undertake a study on best practice  A complete study  To be completed by   Completed in 1995
for forestry                                          1995
Undertake a study on long-term  A complete study      To be completed by   Completed in 1996
financing for forestry                                1995
Construction of FBD headquarters  One complex         To be constructed by  Not constructed
1995
Purchase of 4 x 4 wheel drive   Number                Not specified at    7
Station Wagon vehicle (for FBD,                       appraisal
PCU and TANRIC)
Purchase of computers (for FBD,   Number              Not specified at    22
PCU and TANRIC)                                       appraisal
B. Strengthening Land Policy
and Institutions
Prepare a land Policy           A new policy          To be completed by   Completed in 1994
approved by GOT       1993
Village demarcation             Number of villages    1,800               3,563
Village survey                  - do -                1,800                1,818
Village land titling and        - do -                1,800               Not required due to
registration                                                              change in titling policy
Study on pastoral and common    A complete study      To be completed by   Completed in 1994
property regimes                                      1994
Study on land markets           A complete study      To be completed by   Completed in 1994
1994
Study on regional land          A complete study      To be completed by   Completed in 1994
registration/titling                                  1994
Long-term training
M. Sc. geoinformatics          Number of staff       Not specified at     3
appraisal
M. Sc. photogrammetry          -do-                 -do-                  I
Diploma in geoinformatics      -do-                 -do-                 5



21                      Part 2. Statistical Tables
Key Implementation Indicators         Unit               Estimated              Actual
Short-term training
Surveyors training in project  Number of staff      Not specified at    20
planning, management and                            appraisal
reporting                                                                                     l
Courses on computer application  - do -             -do-                36
in office administration and
planning
Use of survey equipment        -do-                 -do-                 10
Computer basics for general staff  -do-             -do-                24
Computer basics for executives    -do-              -do-                 13
Trouble shooting on survey     -do-                 -do-                4
hardware
Data base management basics   -do-                  -do-                12
Survey processing and drafting    -do-              -do-                9
using LISCAD
Computer aided drafting using    -do-               -do-                13
AUTOCAD
Arclnfo/ArcView applications in  -do-               -do-                 12
land management
Seminars/study tours
Overseas seminar in mapping   Number of staff       Not specified at    2
appraisal
Overseas conference on land   -do-                  -do-                2
valuation
Study tour on land information    -do-              -do-                12
systems
Purchase of major equipment
4x4 wheel drive station wagon  Number               33                  40
and pick-up vehicles
Bicycles                      -do-                  140                 50
Personal computers            -do-                  Not specified at     14
appraisal
GPS units                     -do-                  -do-                7
Survey instrumernts           -do-                  -do-                5
Camping equipment             -do-                  -do-                20
C. Strengthening Regional and
District Forest Services
1. Mwanza
Preparation of regional forest dev.  Complete plans  To be completed by   Completed in 1996
Plans                                                1993
Preparation of district forest dev.   Complete plans  To be completed    Completed for all
plans                                                by1996              districts in 1996
Staff trained in extension     Number                63                  75
Staff trained in management    -do-                  6                   1



Part 2. Statistical Tables                      22
Key Implementation Indicators |       Unit        |    Estimated      |        Actual
Teachers trained               -do-                 Not specified        198
Farmers trained                Number               Not specified at    2,780
appraisal
Household covered by extension    -do-              1,800               31,680
Social groups covered by       -do-                 144                 883
extension
Schools covered by extension  - do -                160                 1,032
Woodland management            - do -               Not foreseen at     28,195
appraisal
Forest reserve under joint     ha                   Not foreseen at     47,000
management                                          appraisal
Nurseries established          Number               2,124               9,461
Seedlings produced             - do -               7,100,000           7,537,000
Wood stoves installed          - do -               Not foreseen at      10,850
appraisal
4x4 wheel drive station wagon  - do -                13                  17
and pick-up vehicles
Trucks                         - do -               Not foreseen at      I
appraisal
Motorcycles                    - do -               28                  9
Bicycles                        - do -              80                  75
Computer                       - do -               Not specified at     I
appraisal
2. Tabora
Preparation of regional forest dev.  Complete Plans  To be completed by   Completed in 1996
Plans                                           1993
Preparation of district forest dev.   Complete plans  To be completed   Completed for all
Plans                                          by1996               districts in 1996
Staff trained in extension     Number               20                   15
Staff trained in management    - do -               4                   4
Teachers and tabacco-leaf      - do -               310                 310
technicians trained
Farners trained                - do -               8,000                8,000
Household covered by extension    - do -            720                  5,990
Groups covered by extension    - do -               48                   89
Schools covered by extension   no                   70                  390
Registration of village forest  ha                  Not foreseen at      8,270
reserves                                            appraisal
Forest reserve under joint     ha                   Not foreseen at      13,200
management                                          appraisal
Forest reserve boundary cleared    km               Not specified at     941
appraisal
Nurseries established          Number               540                  164



23                       Part 2. Statistical Tables
Key Implementation Indicators |        Unit        I     Estimated               Actual
Seedlings produced              Number               2,000,000            2,027,000
Vegetation land use map         ha                    1,500,000           1,000,000
production
Reconnaissance inventory survey   Number of forest   24                   24
for timber and woodfuel         reserves
Management of priority forest
reserves
Boundary clearing              Km                   Not specified at     940
appraisal                                 l
Boundary ploughing             Km                   Not specified at     239
appraisal
Preparation of management      Number of forest      27                  0
plans                          reserves
Woodland management            ha                   Not foreseen at      29,190
appraisal
Villages covered under         Number of villages    10                   107
woodland management
Forest reserves under joint    ha                   Not foreseen at       13,200
management                                          appraisal
Villages contracted under joint    Village          Not foreseen at      7
management                                          appraisal
Establishment of plots for     Plot                  12-24               7
applied research
Purchase of major equipment
Trucks                         Number                Not foreseen at     2
appraisal
Motorcycles                    - do -                39                   13
Bicycles                       - do -                45                  40
Computers                      - do -               Not foreseen at      2
appraisal
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.   Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                Estimated                 Actual
Not applicable



Part 2. Statistical Tables                      24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose as defined at       Status         Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Royalty Collection and   Increase revenue by improving  Completed in   The new system was
Monitoring System          royalty collection system    1995           introduced, and resulted
in increased revenues
2. Best Practices in Forestry    Identify forestry practices that   Completed in   Findings used in the
can improve the management   1995          preparation of the new
of forest resources                        Forestry Policy
3. Long Term Financing of    Indicate the best alternatives    Completed in   Findings used in the
Forestry Activities         for long-term financing of the   1996      preparation of the new
forestry sub-sector                        Forestry Policy
4. Evaluation of Revenue    Evaluate the new system     Completed in   Findings expected to be
Collection and Monitoring   introduced under FRMP       1999           used in the follow-up
System in Singida, Tabora,                                             development programs
Shinyanga and Mwanza
Regions
5. Evaluation of Extension  Evaluate the improvement of    Completed in   Findings expected to be
Services in Mwanza and      services carried out under  1999           used in the follow-up
Tabora Regions              FRMP                                       development programs
6. Evaluation of Project    Evaluate project activities  Completed in   Findings expected to be
Experience with Joint Forest   introduced by FRMP        1999          used in the follow-up
Management and Ngitiri                                                 development programns
Registration
7. Land Market              Review of the land market and   Completed in   Findings used in the
the process of land transfer in   1994     preparation of the Land
order to recommend                         Policy
improvements
8. Pastoralists Land Use and    Study the implication of  Completed in   Findings used in the
Common Property Regimes     pastoral and agriculture land  1994        preparation of the Land
uses, and articulate major                 Policy
issues
9. Land Registration        Review of present land      Completed in   Findings used in the
registration system in order to   1994     preparation of the Land
recommend improvements                     Policy



25                     Part 2. Statistical Tables
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest
estimate (US$M)
Item                 Local costs   Foreign     Total         Total
costs
A. Natural Resources Monitoring and
Forest Policies
Land Use/Natural Resources Mapping     276.5      1,268.4     1,544.9         1,708.0
Resource Information Centre             28.1       595.3       623.4           648.0
Royalty Collection Activities           105.0      415.9        520.9          614.0
Forest Activities: Best Practices Study  63.0        89.7       152.7           77.0
Long-term Forestry Financing Study       31.5       60.4         91.9
Improvement of Infrastructure          622.8       366.3        989.1          652.0
Project Coordination Office             115.7      313.1       428.9         2,662.0
Sub-total (A)              1,242.7    3,109.2     4,351.9         6,361.0
B. Institutions Strengthening: Land
Policy
Land Policy Development                 379.3     1,265.7     1,645.0         1,659.0
Village Demarcation                   1,592.3     1,484.7     3,077.0         3,388.0
Village Titling and Registration       249.1       592.6        841.6           92.0
Deputy Project Coordinator              110.7       172.0       282.7         1,506.0
Sub-total (B)             2,331.4     3,515.0     5,846.4         6,645.0
C. Regional and District Forest
Services
Mwanza Regional Forestry Program        784.2     2,086.5     2,870.7         2,383.0
Tabora Regional Forestry Program      1,105.3     3,238.8     4,344.2         3,953.0
Tabora Research Program                 262.3       302.5       564.8           54.0
Sub-total (C)             2,151.8     5,627.8     7,779.6         6,390.0
Total Base Costs                      5,725.9    12,252.0    17,977.0
Physical Contingencies                  149.9      250.2        400.1
Price Contingencies                     912.0    1644.6      2,556.6
Total Project Costs                   6,787.8    14,146.7    20,934.5        19,396.0



Part 2. Statistical Tables                       26
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                Appraisal estimate (US$ '000)           Actual/latest estimate
(USS '000)
Local costs     Foreign costs      Total             Total
IDA                4.8            13.5             18.3                18.6
NORAD              -               0.7              0.7                            l
GOT                1.9             0                1.9                 0.8
TOTAL              6.7            14.2             20.9                19.4



27                      Part 2. Statistical Tables
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
General
The project proposed to support GOT in addressing broad land and natural resources management issues, and in
promoting the involvement of local people in the management of forests. As such, major project achievements
have been in policy development, institution-building and improvement of natural resources information base.
These benefits are by their nature not quantifiable, but were found to be essential for justifying the project.
Project Benefits
At project appraisal, quantifiable benefits were assessed from two small components, i.e. improved forest
management and forestry extension. At completion, however, only benefits from forestry extension can be
considered for quantification, since the forest management envisaged at appraisal did not materialize as
originally intended.
Benefits from forestry extension are based on increased woodfuel production, as the result of the tree seedlings
distributed by the project, as well as from woodfuel savings obtained through the introduction of improved
stoves. Comparative studies carried out by the project show that the improved stoves have a saving of about
50% on woodfuel consumption, compared with the traditional ones. Assuming an average family consumption
of 5 kg per day, the savings of 2.5 kg have been assessed as project benefits and used in the economic analysis.
The project had distributed about 9.4 million seedlings of different species (out a total production of 9.6 million),
which are equivalent to a plantation area of about 3,520 ha, assuming a plant population of 1,600 seedlings per
ha and a survival rate of 60%. Eucalyptus is the most prevalent species distributed, hence it has been taken as a
representative plant, and the analyses are based on one ha eucalyptus model. Although some of the trees planted
under the project would be sold as poles, the bulk of the production would be used as woodfuel. Hence the
valuation of produce was based on woodfuel. Woodfuel production has been calculated over 21 years, three
rotations of seven years, and were estimated on the basis of yields of 18 m3 per year per ha for the first rotation,
and 20 m3 per year per ha for the following two coppice rotations.
Project Costs
Since the economic analysis is carried out for woodfuel and stoves, the costs related to the regional and district
forestry services in Mwanza and Tabora have been included in the cost stream, although these comprised
expenditures not related to extension such as costs related to improve revenue collection. These costs were
adjusted to 1999 prices using the consumer price index for the country. The investment and operation and
maintenance costs used in the one ha model are based on 1999 prices.
Market and Prices
Most of the tree plantings have taken place in Mwanza Region, where woodfuel demand is high. Hence, project
output would contribute positively to the regional supply, albeit in a limited manner. The price of woodfuel has
been increasing in Mwanza Region, particularly in the urban area. The average market price now varies between
TSh 1,700-2,500 per stack of 15 kg, and many households are using kerosene as a substitute or a supplementing
source of energy. In the analysis, the economic value of woodfuel has been expressed in terms of Kerosene, and
this has been calculated at TSh 23,310 per m3.
Economic Rate of Return
Based on the assumptions made above, an economic rate of return has been calculated for the project over
27 years. This yielded a return of 12%, which is the same as estimated at appraisal for the extension component.



Part 2. Statistical Tables                        28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
_ _       i          l      l              |Revised
l_______ -           Covenant Present    Original   fulfillment
l Agreement  Section    type    Status fulfillment date   date     Description of covenant    Comments
DCA Text   3.01(a)       04      CD                             The Borrower... shall      Funds needed
provide, promptly as needed, were not flowing
the funds... .required for the   as expected in the
Project.                  initial years, but
improved later.
DCA Text    3.03         12       C                             The Borrower... shall      Annual reviews
annually review royalty fees  completed.
and as of July 1 of each year,
adjust them by at least the
rate of inflation.
DCA Text    3.04         03       C                             The Borrower shall ensure    Accounts
that MTNRE and MLHUD    established as
establish independent project required.
accounts in the regions and
districts...
DCA Text    3.05         12       C      January 1,             The Borrower shall...      Completed on
1994                complete an assessment of   time.
long-term fnancing needs of
the forestry sub-sector.
DCA Text    4.01         01       C                             Maintenance of adequate    Accountability
records and accounts of   issues raised by
operations, resources and  some audits have
expenditures.             been addressed.
DCA Text  4.01 (b)       01       C                             Furnish to IDA not later than  Audits up to date.
9 months after the end of
each FY certified copy of
audited accounts including (i)
those for Special Accounts;
and (ii) separate auditors'
opinion on SOE.
DCA Text   5.01 (a)      10       C                             Secondment of graduate     Completed on
and (b)                                             foresters as Regional Forestry time.
Extension Officers and
appointment of DPC.
DCA         Para. 1      05       C                             The Borrower shall establish  PCC continued
Schedule 4                                                      a Project Coordination     operating
Schedule                                                        Committee (PCC)            effectively.
DCA         Para. 5      09       C                             The Borrower shall establish  Work programs
Schedule 4                                                      by December I in each year  were prepared
furnish to the Association an  regularly and
l annual report... and a work  reports submitted
program for the following    on time.
year.



29                      Part 2. Statistical Tables
Revised
Covenant Present   Original   fulfillment
Agreement  Section    type    Status fulfillment date   date     Description of covenant    Comments
DCA         Para. 6     10      CD                             The Borrower shall by end of Completed but
Schedule 4                                                     ... year complete ...     with some delays.
demarcation of ... villages.   The program was
expanded to more
regions.
DCA         Para. 7     10      CD      March 31,              The Borrower shall by March Completed but
Schedule 4                                 1993                1993 furnish... (a) extension  with some delays.
program for Mwanza, and (b)
regional forest resource plan
for Tabora.
DCA         Para. 8     10      CD      March 31,              The Borrower shall by March Pilot revenue
Schedule 4                                 1993                1993 (a) furnish          collection system
recommendations for revenue in place after
reporting; and (b) ...    some delay.
implement.
DCA         Para. 9     10      CD                             Evaluate pilot            Review
Schedule 4                                                     implementation of revised    completed at
revenue collection system.   project
completion.
DCA         Para. II    10       C    May 31, 1994             . . .initiate its activities for    Completed on
Schedule 4                                                     identification of best   time.
practices in Forestry 
furnish a report.
DCA         Para. 13    10       C    May 31, 1995            ... initiate study on land  Completed on
Schedule 4                                                     policy and furnish to     time.
Association for review.
DCA        Para. 14     9        C    September 30,            ... carry out jointly with the  Completed on
Schedule 4                                 1995                Association a mid-term    time.
review of the Project.
Covenant Types                                               Present Status
I = Accounts/audits                                          C = Complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue                            CD = Complied after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                    NC = Not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                                      CP = Complied with partially
5 = Management aspects of the project of executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories I - 9
11 = Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resources allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other



Part 2. Statistical Tables                       30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title      I Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No deviation from applicable Operational Manual Statement
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle       Planned                  Revised                  Actual
Weeks       US$        Weeks         US$        Weeks         US$
Preparation to appraisal  NA         NA           NA          NA         171.6      324,100
Appraisal                 NA          NA          NA          NA         169.2      433,600
Negotiations through      NA          NA          NA          NA          10.3       31,000
Board approval
Supervision               NA         NA           NA          NA         156.7      512,200
Completion                            NA          10          40.9         0.7        2,200
TOTAL                                                                    508.5        1,303.10
i/ Including travel cost (Direct Cost Only)
NA= Not available-not recorded in the FACT System



31                      Part 2. Statistical Tables
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating b/
Stage of project  Month/   Number of  Days in   Specialized   Implementation   Development    Types of
cycle        year      persons    field    staff skills    status      objectives    problemsc
represented"'
Preparation d/    03/90       10       230    AG, E, E, F,                                         l
F, F, LP, LP,
SL, SL
Appraisal       09-10/90       9       243    AG, E, E,                                            l
Fl, FO, I, 1,
NR, SL
Post-Appraisal    05/91        5       105    A, E, FO,           -             -
FO, NR
Supervision 1   07/92          3        39    E, FO, PR           2             1        CF, PR
Supervision 2   10/92         3         42     E, FO, PR          2             1        CF, FP
Supervision 3    04-05/93      1        15    FO                  2             2        CF, FP,
PC
Supervision 4    03/94        2         28     FO, SL             2             1        CF, FP,
PR
Supervision 5    10-11/94      2        42     FO, SL             S             S            -
Supervision 6    08-09/95      3        54     Fl, FO, SL         S             S            -
Supervision 7    03-04/96     4         91     Fl, FO, PR,        S             S                  l
SL
Supervision 8   03/97          3        43     Fl, FO, PR         S             S            -
Supervision 9   01-02/98       3        51     E, FO, PR          S             S            -
Supervision 10    09/98       2         26     E, FO              S             S
a/ A= Anthropologist; AG= Agriculturist; E = Economist; EC = Ecologist; EN = Engineer; FI = Financial Analyst;
FO = Forester; IN= Institutions Specialist; LP = Land Use Planner; NR= Natural Resource Specialist; PR=
Procurement Specialist; SL =Sociologist/Land Policy Specialist.
bl S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; HlU = Highly Unsatisfactory; HS = Highly Satisfactory; NR = Not Rated
c/ CF = Counterpart Funds; FC = Financial Covenants; FP= Financial Performance; PM = Project Management; LC
Legal Covenants; PR = Procurement
d/ Prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, with the participation of the World Bank, British
Overseas Development Agency and the Dutch Development Cooperation.



TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CR-2335-TA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION,
MARCH 9 TO 30, 1999
APPENDIX A
Aide-Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    A mission comprised of Pietros Kidane (Mission Leader, Economist, FAO), Donald
Sungusia (Agricultural Services Specialist, World Bank), and Richard Kaguamba (Forestry
Specialist, World Bank) visited Tanzania from March 9 to 30, 1999 to initiate preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the World Bank-financed Forest Resources
Management Project (FRMP).10 The mission worked mainly with the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Tourism (MNRT), the Ministry of Lands and Human Settlements Development
(MLHSD) and with the Project coordination Unit (PCU). Field visits were undertaken to
Tabora, Shinyanga and Mwanza. Discussions were also held with staff from the Institute of
Resource Assessment of the University of Dar es Salaam.
2.    Upon arrival, the PCU provided the mission with a Project Implementation Overview
Report, and this has been used in the preparation of this Aide Memoire. The mission would like
to express its appreciation for the support extended by officials at headquarters in Dar es Salaam
and in the regions. Preliminary mission findings and conclusions are presented below.
B. BACKGROUND
3.    Before the formulation of the Forest Resources Management Project (FRMP), IDA had
financed two forestry projects to establish industrial plantations, from the mid-1970s to the end
of the 1980s. During this period, support was also provided to the forestry sector through
different integrated rural development projects. A study on wood energy (which also identified
potential areas for project investment) was also launched by the Joint World BanklUNDP Energy
Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP). Forestry development efforts in those days
followed traditional lines, and were mainly focused on tackling specific forestry topics and
activities. However, this approach was inadequate for dealing with the complex problems that
were emerging as a result of population pressure, and the consequent high and conflicting
demands for natural resources. These circumstances highlighted the need for a change in the
development approach to address broad sectoral issues, including policy and institutional
matters, and issues related to the participation of the private sector and communities in tree
planting and forest resources management. Such a broader approach to forestry development
obtained a general consensus within the main development institutions, including the World
Bank. Inspired by this new approach, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) carried out a major
'I P. Dewees, World Bank Task Team Leader for the project participated in discussions during the latter part of the
mission and also contributed to preparing this Aide Memoire.



33                               Appendix A
study of the forestry subsector and, with donor assistance, prepared the Tanzania Forestry Action
Plan (TFAP) in the late 1980s. Further, as a follow up to the TFAP, Government, with the
assistance of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, drew up a comprehensive investment
proposal in March 1990 for World Bank financing. The project proposal, commonly referred to
as FRMP, was appraised by IDA in May 1991.
4.    The project had three specific objectives: (a) to strengthen institutions in charge of the
development of forest policies and natural resources information; (b) to support the development
of rural land policies, strengthen crucial governmental and non-governmental organizations in
charge of the implementation of these policies, and support the implementation and monitoring
of government's policy of village demarcation and titling; and (c) to strengthen regional and
district forestry institutions in Mwanza and Tabora Regions. Project components comprised:
*  Strengthening Natural Resources Monitoring and Forest Policies, through: (i) production
of national land use and natural resource maps; (ii) development of a natural resource
information center; (iii) improvement and monitoring of the royalty collection system; (iv)
identification of best practices for forest activities; (v) preparation of an action plan for the
long-term financing of the forestry subsector; and (vi) improvement of accommodations for
FBD's main offices.
*  Strengthening Land Policies and Institutions, by supporting: (i) the development of land
policies and (ii) village demarcation, titling and registration.
*  Strengthening Regional and District Forest Services in Mwanza and Tabora.  In
Mwanza, activities were to include: (i) survey and planning of the extension program; (ii)
district forest service reorganization and training; (iii) development and distribution of
extension materials; (iv) community and farm forestry extension; (v) local research and
development; (vi) revenue collection and sharing; and (vii) village woodland and forest
reserve management. In Tabora, a one-year preparatory phase (Phase I) was to include: (i)
vegetation mapping; (ii) reconnaissance surveys/inventories; and (iii) regional forest resource
planning. Phase II which was to last five years, subject to the findings of Phase I, was to
include: (i) forest reserve management; (ii) village woodland management; (iii) applied
research; (iv) community and farm forestry extension; (v) revenue collecting and sharing;
and (vi) training.
5.    Many of the project's activities were envisaged and designed as pilot operations, intended
to test out a range of approaches for improving woodland management.
6.    Total project costs were estimated at TSh 6.1 billion, or US $ 20.9 million, with a foreign
exchange component of 68 percent. The project was expected to be implemented over a period
of six years. About 88 percent of the project costs were to be financed by IDA, 9 percent by
GOT and about 3 percent by other donors. l
As indicated in the Staff Appraisal Report, it was expected that NORAD would provide US $0.7 million in co-
financing to support the Natural Resources Information Centre. This co-financing did not materialize and was
not considered during the approval and signing of the credit.



Appendix A                             34
7.    The management of the project was to be vested with the two ministries and two regions,
i.e. MNRT, through its Forestry and Beekeeping Division (FBD) for strengthening forest
services; MLHSD for the land policy, village demarcation and registration activities; and Tabora
and Mwanza Regions for related forestry and land activities in the field. Coordination of project
activities was to be carried out by a high level Project Coordination Committee (PCC) whose
members would be largely from the two ministries and two regions, and from the Prime
Minister's Office (PMO). A Project Coordinator (PC), to be appointed by MNRT, and a Deputy
Project Coordinator (DPC), to be appointed by MLHSD, were to form the secretariat of the PCC.
Three tiers of responsibility for implementation were envisaged for the forestry component:
national level under FBD, regional level under the Regional Forest Officer (RFO); and district
level under the District Forest Officer (DFO). Overall implementation responsibility for the
lands component was to be vested with the Survey and Mapping Division (SMD), but the
Regional Surveyor (RS), who reports to SMD, was to be responsible for the lands component in
each regions.
8.    The project was approved by IDA on February 11, 1992, and a Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), which provided funds totaling SDR 13.2 million, or US $18.3 million, was
signed on April 24, 1992. The Credit was declared effective on July 16, 1992.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
General Overview
9.   IDA approved a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance totaling US $650,000 to
finance preparatory tasks for project implementation, including the recruitment of the PC,
procurement of equipment, material and civil works, as well as for planning of activities and
preparation of bid tendering documents. However, the PPF was not utilized, mainly due to
communication difficulties between various GOT departments. This meant that preparatory
tasks had to be carried out during the time envisaged for implementation, hence delaying the
scheduled project launch. The PCC was established and the PC was appointed, consistent with
the project's legal covenants. However, the post of PC was vacated soon after the project
became operational, since the PC was promoted to the position of Director of FBD, although he
continued to act as part-time PC until his successor was appointed in August 1993. The delay in
appointing a full time PC hindered the rapid development of the planned organization and
management of the project, and significantly delayed the discharging of the PC's responsibilities
in preparing work plans and in reporting and monitoring project activities.
10.  In addition to the delays recorded on account of not undertaking preparatory tasks,
progress in implementation was impaired in the first year by lack of funds, staff, office facilities
and delays in opening project accounts in the regions. Only in the second year of the project was
some progress in the field observed, following the recruitment of staff and the procurement of a
few vehicles. A major leap in project implementation was recorded only in the third year, when
the recruitment of consultants was virtually completed, and procurement of considerable
numbers of vehicles and other equipment and material was undertaken. By this time, most of the
serious implementation problems were resolved, and project management was well positioned to
provide the support required by the implementing agencies. Thereafter, implementation progress
continued satisfactorily.



35                             Appendix A
11.   One problem that continued to persist throughout project implementation was a shortage
of GOT counterpart funds, particularly with regard to the forestry component. Major crises were
avoided mainly due to increased use of FBD funds retained from revenue collection. The project
was able to take advantage of a more general agreement between GOT and the Bank that
revenue-generating public institutions could retain revenues to meet counterpart funds
requirements, rather than to be fully reliant on budgetary commitments from Treasury. The issue
of the shortage of GOT funds and the difficulties encountered in financing the project's operating
costs were raised by all IDA supervision missions. The final supervision mission expressed its
concern about the likelihood of sustaining the project's impacts if funds are not available to the
regions to continue carrying out project-related activities such as boundary clearing and
maintenance, revenue collection, and the implementation of woodland management plans. It
recommended that MNRT should consider preparing a request to Treasury to increase its share
of retained revenues to finance on-going operations, and should consider also reducing its own
share of retained revenues at HQ in the interests of ensuring that regional budgets are adequate
for sustaining the project's investments. This recommendation was not acted upon, but the issue
is more generally being addressed by a Government Task Force.
12.   A mid-term review was carried out for the project in March/April 1996 by a joint GOT
and IDA team. This review confirmed the validity of the original project objectives, and
expressed its satisfaction about the project's progress. The original project closing date of June
30, 1998 was extended twice: first to March 31, 1999, and finally to June 30, 1999 (to complete
the required audits of project accounts). As of end of March 1999, disbursements amounted to
US$ 18.53 million, or slightly over 98 percent of total credit funds.
Strengthening Natural Resources Monitoring and Forest Policies
13.   Land Use and Natural Resources Mapping.  In mid 1997, technical assistance
personnel had successfully produced the countrywide maps envisaged under the project, albeit
with about two and half years delay from the original plans. The 64 map sheets produced by the
project were based on the most recent satellite imagery, and, among other things, they show
general classes of forest cover and agricultural and settlement areas. They also provide baseline
information on the different uses of land, and this has facilitated the tasks of assessing natural
resources and preparing development plans. Another use of the maps has been for regular
monitoring of forest resources and changes in land use. The maps have become popular and are
widely used by different governmental and non-governmental organizations. The PCC had ruled
that the maps should be produced in the facilities of SMD instead of accomplishing this abroad.
Hence the project improved the poor state of SMD facilities, contributing significantly to the
domestic map production capability. However, in spite of the improvements, the maps were
produced abroad, because of doubts about obtaining stable pH level of the water and stable
electricity supply.
14.   Natural Resource Information Center. In line with project objectives, the Tanzanian
Natural Resources Information Center (TANRIC) was established by the Institute for Resource
Assessment (IRA) of the University of Dar es Salaam. The project provided technical assistance,
computers and other office equipment, and funds for purchasing satellite imagery, maps and for
ground survey staff. Training in geographic information system (GIS) was also provided under
the project. Presently, TANRIC is an important entity with a considerable information base on



Appendix A                              36
natural resources and with capabilities for collecting and analyzing data and delivering the latest
information to customers. The demand for its services is increasing, and its business has enabled
it to become almost a self-supporting institution. GOT has decided to attach TANRIC to IRA,
hence resolving conclusively the uncertainty that prevailed about the center's institutional
arrangements.
15.  Improvement and Monitoring Royalty Collection Systems. The project aimed at
improving the cost effectiveness of GOT's royalty collection. To this end, the project proposed
to develop a revenue reporting system, introduce a pilot phase of revised revenue collection
method, undertake the feasibility of assessing fee collection from woodfuel used for tobacco
curing, and evaluate during mid-term the success of the new system. These activities were
carried out with much delay and have frustrated the original project plans. Because of the delay
in recruiting consultants, and later, due to a poor dialogue between the consultants and FBD, a
new revenue system was introduced only in 1996, initially in the four pilot regions, i.e. Tabora,
Shinyanga, Singida and Mwanza, and later extended to all the regions. The system consisted of
registering of business ventures in harvesting, processing and trading of forest products, as well
as establishing checkpoints, including near train stations, and stepping up forest patrolling
activities. During 1998 about 400 people were registered in the four regions, of which about 210
were in Mwanza.
16.   Collection of revenue levels improved soon after the introduction of the new system in
the four regions from about TSh 90.72 million in 1996, to TSh 277.86 million and TSh 299.17
million for 1997 and 1998, respectively. The increase of revenue in Mwanza was a major jump
from TSh 8.70 million in 1996 to TSh 103.0 million in 1998. The contrast between the high
collection of revenues of Mwanza, which has little forest resources, and the low collection of
Tabora, which has high forest cover, is explained by failure of the collection efforts in Tabora.
Mwanza was collecting revenues mainly from wood that was coming from Tabora. In spite of
the overall 3-fold increase of revenue (and the nearly 12-fold increase in Mwanza), the total
collected from the regions is likely to represent less than 10 percent of the potential revenue
which could be collected, indicating yet again the existence of inefficiency in collection. An
evaluation of the revenue collection system was prepared in advance of the ICR, and its findings
will be incorporated into the ICR. Many reasons have been given for the poor revenue
collection, including poor data collection and monitoring, poor patrolling, weak institutional
capacity, poor management and dishonesty of some individuals in the field. An important
explanation of the problem has also been of an institutional nature i.e. organizational
fragmentation. Although the forest reserves owned by GOT are under the jurisdiction of the
FBD, the RFOs and DFOs are not employed by FBD, but by the Regional and District
Administrations, respectively. Therefore, FBD directives may not be followed totally in the
field. DFOs, who are materially collecting revenues from the forest reserves owned by FBD and
by the districts, may give priority to district matters. It should be recalled that FBD shares part
of the revenues it collects with the RFOs, but not directly with DFOs. In order to obviate these
difficulties, MNRT is considering establishment of a forestry 'executive agency,' with one line
of command, to be responsible for the overall management of the forest reserves and for royalty
collection.
17.  Identification of Best Practices for Forest Activities and Long-Term Financing of
Forestry. FBD recruited consultants to undertake these two studies. The study on best practices



37                             Appendix A
provided useful and innovative ideas on many issues, including the involvement of local
communities in the management of public lands and forest reserves, and the private sector in the
management of plantations. The findings and recommendations of this study have been reflected
in the new Forest Policy. Preparation of the latter has benefited significantly from FRMP, as the
project provided finance for many studies and supported workshops and seminars for the
realization of the policy. The study on long-term financing has also provided useful information
on the present valuation of forest products and recommended a change of the current valuation
system.  The study indicated that self-financing of future forestry operations would be
guaranteed, if effective collection of the revenues could be undertaken.
18.  Improvement of Infrastructure. The project proposed to resolve FBD's problem of
limited office space by constructing and rehabilitating offices on a government site in Dar es
Salaam. Although an initial design for the structure was already developed before project
appraisal, and architects were appointed at the end of 1993, FBD has not succeeded in having its
new headquarters built. Last minute changes in site plans and excessive delay in advertising
tenders did not allow tenders to be finalized or awarded by the end of July 1997, the latest dead-
line agreed with IDA supervision mission. Consequently, the construction of the building was
excluded from the project, and the funds were reallocated to other project components.
Strengthening Land Policy and Institutions
19.   Land Policy Development. The land policy studies envisaged under the project were
modified in mid 1993 to include support for the process of land policy formulation.
Accordingly, consultants were recruited to assist this important GOT policy formulation
exercise, which was completed with the adoption of a National Land Policy by Cabinet in April
1994, and by the Parliament in July 1995. The Land Policy eventually led to the promulgation
by Parliament of new legislation in February 1999 (the Land Act and the Village Land Act).
20.   Lands Records Storage and Management. The project also assisted MLHSD in
improving the organization of land records and cadastral information system. Following a
review of the poor state of land records storage and management, a plan was drawn up to initiate
an improvement whose main thrust was to save critical information contained in the deteriorating
records by storing them in a computerized data base. To this end, the project developed a
comprehensive system in computerized data management, and provided staff training, technical
assistance, computers and other office equipment. The project succeeded in introducing a
system for the safe storage and easy use of land records, and about 45,000 records or some 18
percent of the total have been already computerized so far.
21.   Village Demarcation, Titling and Registration. Demarcation, survey and titling of
village lands was envisaged to take place in five regions, but this was later expanded to cover
eleven regions. Project activities commenced with demarcation, and progress accelerated after
the mid-term review of the project, when staff mobility improved. Demarcation activities were
undertaken with the involvement of the village people, after project staff fully appraised them
about the purpose of the demarcation. Initially, the involvement of villagers in the demarcation
process was less satisfactory, but this was later corrected, following a conscious effort by project
management to improve the participation of the people. Demarcation of village lands was
completed in Dodoma, Morogoro, Singida, Tabora, Shinyanga, Mwanza, Mara, Ruvuma and



Appendix A                              38
Kagera regions. Small areas of Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions remain undemarcated, pending
settlement of disputed boundaries. Final surveying commenced only in August 1998 due to the
delayed arrival of the necessary equipment, particularly the global positioning system (GPS)
units. Once the equipment was in hand, however, the process of surveying progressed rapidly.
At completion, the project has demarcated about 3,560 villages and surveyed some 1,820
villages. With the new Land Policy, the original plan to issue village land title to the village
administrations was changed, as titles are now to be issued directly to land owners, whether they
are individuals, clans, or the village administration. Instead, the village councils will be provided
with an administrative certificate, together with the boundary maps, of their respective villages.
Strengthening Regional and District Forest Services
22.   Forestry Extension. Given the limited vegetative cover in Mwanza, the project's
forestry extension efforts promoted tree planting in this region. The involvement of people in
tree planting and in the management of woodlands, was also considered important in Tabora as a
means of checking deforestation caused by the use of wood for tobacco curing. It was originally
an objective of the project to rely on technical assistance inputs to develop innovative and pilot
approaches to forestry extension, to develop good baseline information and to put in place an
effective monitoring and evaluation system, and to draw heavily in this regard on the experience
of NGOs which had been working in this area. The consultants who were contracted to provide
these inputs had insufficient experience to explore or promote alternative extension approaches,
and the result was that forestry extension was developed along fairly traditional lines, i.e. the
project simply promoted tree planting, independently of any understanding of the social and
economic factors which influence household decision-making in this regard, or for otherwise
understanding how tree and woodland management could be incorporated into land-use
practices.
23.   The project did however build on earlier experiences in Mwanza by focusing on
providing support for Village Extension Agents (VEAs) who were designated by the villagers to
become the focal point for receiving technical messages and training in nursery and tree planting
techniques. The main topics covered by forestry extension were tree planting, individual or
community woodland management (ngitiri), improved stoves and Joint Forest Management
(JFM), i.e. management of government forest reserves with communities.
24.   By far the most important extension activity, in terms of project resource use, has been
the promotion of tree planting through individuals, groups and institutions. Extension messages
and training in nursery techniques, species selection, tree planting and tending were, therefore,
given to a large number of individuals and to appreciable number of institutions, particularly
schools. Over 10,000 nurseries of different sizes have been established in both regions, and
about 9.5 million seedlings have been produced. The project contacted over 34,600 households
and provided training to about 13,700 farmers and school teachers. In addition to delivery of
extension messages, tree planting was also promoted through the provision of tree seeds,
polythene tubes and pesticides. The provision of inputs in this manner, however, is not clearly
sustainable.
25.   The tree planting program has largely met the physical targets set at appraisal, but the
impact of this cannot be assessed due to the failure of the consultants to assist in establishing a



39                              Appendix A
monitoring and evaluation system for the extension activities. About 80 percent of tree planting
activities were carried out in Mwanza. In Tabora tree planting efforts were geared mainly
towards tobacco growers in order to induce them to produce their own woodfuel for curing
tobacco. However, since woodfuel is still abundantly available in the natural woodlands of
Tabora, the prospects for convincing farmers to grow trees for woodfuel purposes are limited.
Hence, exploring different extension approaches suitable for this region would have been in
order. An evaluation of the project's extension efforts was carried out in advance of the ICR
mission, and the findings of this evaluation will be drawn upon when preparing the ICR.
26.   Despite the weak support provided for the development of new approaches toward
forestry extension, the project did support two particular sets of initiatives which were relatively
unconventional. The first involved building on traditional practices of setting aside tracts of land
for later or emergency use. Originally a concept which was applied to grazing areas, ngitiri, the
project extended the idea to residual pockets of woodlands. The second approach was an effort
to share the benefits and responsibilities for the management of Government Forest Reserves
with communities through what was called Joint Forest Management (JFM). An independent
evaluation of the project's ngitiri and JFM activities was carried out, and the findings will be
reported upon more fully in the ICR.
27.   One of the main observations of the ngitiri program (which began on a modest scale in
Mwanza, and then was adopted in Tabora) was that it did not go far enough in reconstructing and
modernizing the concept. This is partly because the approach only received halting support from
the technical advisers who were engaged to provide assistance in this area. In some areas, ngitiri
were simply registered, and there was inattention given to: where and how authority over
common land ngitiri is lodged; to guiding villagers about protection strategies; and to
encouraging villagers to exploit the considerable powers they possess to regulate access, use and
management actions in general. The evaluation also noted the large discrepancies in the areas
reported to be under ngitiri management, and suggested that hectarage was, in any event, not an
appropriate measure of success. Rather, the reviewers noted, the value of ngitiri is in the support
it gives to ordinary people to act to halt the disappearance of what little woodland is left, and to
bring as many pockets of woodland as possible under rehabilitation. Dismissing ngitiri as
insignificant because they are small (as the technical advisers seemed to have done) is
unwarranted, simply because they are highly significant to their owners. The evaluation
concluded that the ngitiri concept is fundamentally sound, and has good replication potential
throughout the country. The most positive aspects of the ngitiri program are those which
targeted villagers as the logical, long-term guardians of forest resources, and which work with
them to protect and conserve these resources themselves, at little cost to government, and
through socio-legal mechanisms which they themselves control and maintain according to their
own interests.
28.   Joint Forest Management was an approach adopted on a pilot basis in the Urumwa Forest
Reserve, a 13,000 ha reserve 15 km or so from Tabora. In practice, 6 user groups have entered
into contractual arrangements with Government which provide them with exclusive harvesting
rights of specified small coupe areas in return for protecting these and other areas from illegal
use. In addition, each household within each user group is supposed to pay an annual fee of
TSh 500. The evaluation concluded on the one hand, that community involvement in Urumwa
had led to an improvement in the condition of the Reserve, and to a sharp reduction in the threats



Appendix A                              40
it faces, but on the other, that (like the ngitiri effort), the approach taken didn't go far enough,
particularly in regard to more fully transferring decision making responsibilities to the
communities involved. The evaluation also noted that there had been a number of very positive
shifts during implementation in the narrow approach originally proposed, and that this suggested
some interesting opportunities for expanding upon a significantly modified approach in future.
29.   Under the project, applied research in dry woodland management is being carried out by
the Tanzania Forestry Research Institute (TAFORI), and it is hoped that some important
technical advise in managing the woodlands will emerge in the future. Although the research
started late i.e. in 1996 some experiments such as the regeneration characteristics of clear felled
woodlands, and in understory burning as a management tool appear to give promising results.
30.   An important project achievement, not foreseen at appraisal, was the introduction of
improved stoves. The wood stoves being introduced particularly in the rural areas are simple to
construct and made from local material i.e. from mixing different types of clays. The extension
method is based on showing women how to install stoves by actually constructing them, and
letting each person to replicate the process separately or in a team. This approach has had a
domino effect, as the trained women are showing others how to construct the stoves wherever
they go. Until now, the main emphasis was on promoting wood stoves, but improved charcoal
stoves, manufactured by women, are also being introduced by the project. Studies carried out by
project staff indicate that the improved stoves are more woodfuel efficient and a saving of about
50 percent of woodfuel is obtained compared to the traditional stoves.
31.   Forest Reserve Management. Expectations at Appraisal, with regard to the preparation
of detailed forest management plans for priority forest reserves were never met. A considerable
amount of work was carried out in Geita (in Mwanza), but this has been undermined because of
mining interests -- a concern which had been identified at Appraisal. The proposed inventory for
priority forest reserves in Tabora Region has not been undertaken as the necessary maps have not
been delivered by IRA, and the consultant Forest Management Specialist (who was to provide
assistance in carrying out the inventory) left in late June, 1998. Even with the type of
information which would be included in a forest management plan, there is wide agreement that
implementation would be problematic in any event, given the difficulties of forest protection
because of encroachment and illegal timber harvesting and charcoal production. The dearth of
forestry staff in the districts and the lack of cooperation from many districts has exacerbated the
problem. Joint Forest Management is seen as a partial solution. It was expected that the
management plans were to describe reserve demarcation, forest inventory, timber regulation,
community participation and pilot management studies. The failure in preparing forest reserve
management plans, is mainly due to the poor performance of the same consultants who failed to
provide adequate support for the development of extension forestry. The project had carried out
aerial photography of some forest reserves of Tabora as an input to the management plans, and
these are currently with TANRIC. It is hoped that these will be useful for preparing management
plans for some forest reserves in the future.
32.   More general planning activities were, however, undertaken, including the preparation of
regional forest development plans for both Mwanza and Tabora. All of the districts in Mwanza
region prepared district forest development plans, while around 30 percent were completed in
Tabora.



41                               Appendix A
33.   Even in the absence of detailed priority reserve management plans, the project did
achieve some level of success in re-establishing forest reserve boundaries to provide a basis for
management and protection. In Tabora region, where these activities were undertaken, around
940 km of boundaries were cleared (having been allowed to deteriorate since the early 1970s),
and these have served to separate the reserves from other types of land use and ownership, and
from  JFM  and applied research mentioned above.  Boundary patrolling by bicycle and
motorcycle was also reintroduced during the project period.
34.   Forest reserve management in Tabora Region has also been hindered by illegal
encroachment. As many as 65,000 people have been in the past reported to have encroached in
reserved areas, and this has of course hindered the introduction of better management. While the
problem was not evident during project preparation or at appraisal, and only developed during
the project period (coincident with the many political and economic reforms which took place
during this period), the situation has been exacerbated by a shortage of forest guards and by the
resulting poor state of protection afforded to the reserves. The problem is also an institutional
one because of an almost complete lack of cooperation from districts, particularly district
forestry staff, who are the principal front line management and protection officers. Despite
Government's efforts to deal with encroachment through other non-project mechanisms,12
problems persist. Illegal logging and charcoal production continue in many regions.
Organization and Management
35.   It took almost two years before project management was put on a strong operational
footing, mainly due to the failure in using the PPF, and delays in replacing the PC and in the
recruitment of several core staff. The time passed without a full time PC and other core staff has
meant that several project tasks could not be carried out as planned. These included preparation
of adequate annual plans and budgeting, procurement of goods and services, reporting and
monitoring of project activities, and the maintenance of strong linkage with staff in the field.
Fortunately, these difficulties were largely resolved towards the end of the second year of the
project, as project management went into its full strength and assumed its expected role in
facilitating project implementation. The PCC met regularly to review and approve project work
plans and to resolve eventual issues. The PC provided continuous support to regional project
staff, and facilitated linkages with other concerned bodies. The DPC has also provided similar
support to project staff implementing the land component, and facilitated improvement in their
performance.
36.   Implementation plans were prepared based on the existing GOT organizational structure,
which was characterized by a fragmented line of institutional responsibility. It was stated that
overall responsibility for the forest component, as well as implementation of the components
regarding natural resources monitoring and forest policies were vested with FBD/PCU.
However, in the field, the RFOs were given the responsibility for implementing the project at the
regional level and for coordinating and monitoring district level activities, while DFOs were in
charge of the actual implementation of project activities in the districts. Even the flow of funds
12 During the project period, around 1,200 illegally encroaching people were evicted from forest reserves in Tabora
Region, but this was undertaken without the involvement of project staff or funds. Large numbers are also
believed to have moved from reserved areas voluntarily because of a public campaign against illegal
encroachment, and following clarification of boundaries.



Appendix A                              42
to the field offices were different i.e. through FBD/PCU to the regional accounts, and through
PMO/PCU to the district accounts. Since the regions and the districts have their respective
programs in their areas of jurisdiction, and since they are answerable to the commissioners in the
regions and districts, the RFOs and DFOs tended to implement the project along their habitual
independent manners. In this process, FBD felt neglected and with little ownership for the
project, although it was still expected to have overall responsibility for implementation as the
technical Division of MNRT. Early during implementation, FBD expressed its misgivings about
the independent mindedness of the RFOs and about its own limited involvement in
implementation, because even the staff it seconded to the regions, i.e. the Regional Forest
Extension Officers (RFEO) were answerable to the RFOs. Project management tried to resolve
the issue by requesting the RFOs to inform the FBD on all project related matters. The RFOs, in
turn, complained about the independent-mindedness of the DFOs, although they were meant to
coordinate and monitor district level activities. These problems did not occur with regard to the
land component, because this was being implemented by the Director of Survey and Mapping
Division through the RS.
37.   The diffused line of command has not facilitated the emergence of a clear organizational
setup for implementing the forestry component.  Despite these difficulties, the ad hoc
organization and management system put in place by the project, i.e. the PCC and PCU, has been
successful in implementing the complex development program under FRMP. However, the
wisdom of establishing a management system that artificially tended to centralize activities that
have been long decentralized, is questionable, although this is being justified as a necessary
mechanism to coordinate the activities of two ministries. The fact is this coordination system
will be terminated with the closing of the project, and the management experience gained may be
lost to the implementing agencies.
Technical Assistance and Training
38.   In order to improve institutional capabilities and to undertake studies required for land
and forestry policies formulation, the project has provided a strong technical assistance input. In
addition to short-term individual consultancies, five firms have provided medium to long-term
technical assistance in the fields of natural resources mapping, resource information,
improvement of royalty collection, extension forestry, natural resources management, land
policy development, improvement of land records and registration and design of FBD
headquarters. Excluding the architectural consultancy, a total of 612 person month (385
expatriate and 277 local) of technical assistance was provided by these firms. In general, most of
the consultancies provided by the firms were satisfactory except one firn whose performance
was deficient in the areas of forest extension and management. A large training program was
also provided under the project, and this has helped implementation in the field. Most of the
training focused on improving the operational capabilities of staff in the fields of forestry
extension and management and on demarcation and survey of land. The training program
consisted primarily of short-term courses and study tours.
Procurement
39.   Procurement was carried out by the PCU and by the Central Tender Board (CTB). The
procedure followed was to deliver the tendering documents prepared by PCU to CTB, after a "no



43                              Appendix A
objection" was given by IDA. After being reviewed, the tenders were advertised by CTB and
bids were directly received and opened by it. The bids were then sent to the PCU for evaluation.
Following the reviewing of the evaluation made by the PCU, and having satisfied itself of the
result, an approval for awarding the contract was given by CTB to the PCU. This system has
worked out quite well in most cases, although some delays were encountered in some cases due
to CTB's numerous queries. The only major procurement problem faced by the project was the
failure to construct the FBD headquarters as discussed earlier. FBD management submitted the
evaluations only in November 1997, about three months after the last deadline set by IDA for
forwarding the contract. CTB's approval had been obtained in April 1998, which was too late to
commence and finish construction by the project's closing date. Delays in the procurement of
GPS units were also experienced due to several misunderstandings resulting from a lack of
clarity about IDA procurement procedures for reviewing contract modifications.
Borrower and IDA Performance
40.   GOT has given strong political support through the PCC and its high level members, and
this was an important asset to the project, as it was clearly perceived by staff at all levels as a
reflection of firm government commitment to the project in particular, and to the development
and management of natural resources in general. However the failure to use the PPF, the delayed
replacement of the PC and the inability of GOT to provide adequate counterpart funding, can be
considered as deficiencies in performnance. The failure to finalize the necessary preparations and
studies for the FBD headquarters was a major shortcoming and a missed opportunity for the
Division to improve its working conditions and operational efficiency. IDA's performance has
been generally satisfactory, as project design was in tune with the set objectives, and supervision
missions were apt at resolving problems faced by the project. However, increased efforts in
reminding the concerned institutions about the availability of the PPF would have been
warranted, as this could have perhaps increased the chance of its utilization. In retrospect, it can
also be said that IDA should have endeavored to assist in bringing about less fragmented
organizational arrangements in forestry management.
Project Impact
41.   The project has positively contributed towards improved the management of natural
resources. First of all, it has assisted in a significant manner in the formulation of both the Forest
and Land Policies. The Land Policy has led to the enactment of new land legislation. An
important achievement of the lands component was also the strengthening of the departments
concerned in surveying and in land recording and registration by improving their working
capabilities through the provision of equipment, training and the introduction of improved
working methods. The survey of village lands will facilitate development planning and land
administration at the village level. Within the forestry component, the promotion of private
nurseries has enabled the increased production of tree seedlings. The tree seedlings produced
and planted under the project are estimated to cover at least 3,000 ha of land, and this will
positively contribute to the future supply of construction poles and woodfuel. The stoves are
already helping families to reduce their woodfuel consumption due to their improved efficiency.
One of the most tangible project results has been the marked increase in royalty collection, and
the demonstration that this could be further systematically improved.



Appendix A                               44
42.   The project has also strengthened the forestry services in the two regions through training
and improved mobility, and are now capable of undertaking much larger programs with more
confidence, given their experience under the project. The introduction of the concept of joint
forestry management and improved management of individual or community woodlands has
stimulated people to think about new way of handling the country's forest resources. This is
expected to direct future development efforts to participatory and cost effective resource
management systems. Finally, the project has reduced the rate of encroachment of the forest
reserves in Tabora by establishing boundaries and sending strong signals to the people, that
violation of the forest reserves will not be tolerated any more. These signals, which come from
the regional and district authorities, have demonstrated their resolve by evicting encroachers
from the forest reserves. The phenomena of generalized encroachment on forest reserves was
not known when the project was being formulated, but it coincided with its implementation. It is
believed by practitioners in Tanzania that encroachment in Tabora would have been far more
dramatic, if the project was not being implemented during the years of high incidence of
encroachment of the forest reserves.
Sustainability
43.   Sustainability of the privately operated activities such as nurseries, tending of privately
established trees, installed stoves, is practically ensured since many people are already
undertaking these activities on their own and without project support. What might disrupt
nursery activities could be the lack of availability of inputs such as seeds and polythene tubes,
but this could be tackled by working with the private sector to provide these services. Likewise,
the sustainability of the land component is not in question because follow-up services will be
carried out against payments by those who demand services, such as surveying for obtaining land
titles. Sustainability of continuing the services provided by the field forestry services, will,
however, depend on the level of support that these will receive from GOT. Based on past
experience regarding GOT's difficulties in providing adequate budget, it can be deduced that
funds to sustain forestry activities may not flow easily. This may put their sustainability in
doubt, although FBD's stand in financing forestry development has improved markedly with the
increase in revenue collection. Continuing with the system of collection introduced by the
project may be difficult under current administrative arrangements. For instance, it will be
difficult to continue payment of relatively high levels of allowances to implement project-related
activities. Allowances such as these which provided incentives for staff to collect royalties were
not sustainable, at least given existing institutional and administrative arrangements. This
consideration appears to cast doubt on the sustainability of the quality and level of services.
Therefore, the present search for an alternative organizational and management setup that
ensures the sustainable development of forest resources deserve considerate attention by the
policy makers.
Lessons Learned
44.   Many lessons can be learned from the implementation experience of FRMP, and these
will be further elaborated in the ICR. In the meantime, the following lessons are drawn from the
project:



45                              Appendix A
* While establishing separate organization and management may be a convenient option for
implementing a project within the existing fragmented organizational setup, project
ownership by the different agencies becomes difficult. In addition, this approach is not
sustainable, since each agency will implement the project under the normal government
administrative structure after the project is completed,
* Although payment of project allowance are given in order to motivate staff and to
compensate them for the increased hardship and responsibility, this has its own drawbacks.
Firstly, it has created rivalry between project and non-project staff, and secondly it is not
sustainable as the practice will be dropped after the completion of project.
* Revenue collection from forest reserves can be increased significantly, as demonstrated by
the project, if an improved system is introduced, and staff are motivated and well equipped.
* As proven by the project, community participation is cost effective, rapid and sustainable in
carrying out village demarcation and surveying.
* People are responsive to new forest management systems, such as the ngitiri and Joint Forest
Management, when they can perceive a long-term and sustainable benefit from the very
forests that are subjected to misuse and encroachment.
* Simple technology that is based on the use of inexpensive local material, such as the
improved stoves, is enthusiastically adopted by farmers.
* According to preliminary observations, it appears that clearfelled dry woodland
(characterized throughout the region as miombo woodlands) can grow rapidly, contrary to the
general belief these woodlands grow very slowly. This may open new venues for miombo
woodland management.



Appendix A                             46
Forest Resources Management Project
Progress in Meeting Actions Previously Agreed
during September 1998 Supervision Mission
Task              | By whom         Target date   Remarks
Regional and
District Forestry
I .  Revenue collection   Regional, district December    Because of poor
for 4 pilot regions to  forestry    31, 1998 (for  performance during the first
reach TSh 350      officers/FBD     CY 98)       half of the year, targets were
million (excluding                               reduced from TSh 440
plantation revenues)                             million. Actual collection
totaled TSh 299 million
against targets of TSh 350
million. Revenues collected
against targets set for the
pilot regions are below:
Tabora: collected: TSh 160
million (target: TSh 225
million);
Singida: collected: TSh 8.4
million (target: TSh 40
million);
Mwanza: collected:
TSh 103 million (target
TSh 60 million);
Shinyanga: collected:
TSh 27.8 million (target
TSh 25 million);
2.  Prepare evaluation of Consultant    February 15,  Completed. Recommended
forest revenue                      1999         streamlining and
collection system                                improvement of system.
3.  Convene workshop   FBD/PC           by January    Not convened
on forest revenue                   31, 1999
collection system
4.  Revenue returns     RFOs/PC         monthly       Summary included in
from 4 pilot regions                             evaluation study.
to FBD and IDA



47                             Appendix A
Task               By whom          Target date   Remarks
5.  Prepare evaluation    Consultant     January 31,   Completed.
and assessment of                   1999
forestry extension
system in Mwanza
and Tabora. Report
to FBD and IDA.
6.  Complete forest     IRA              December    Completed
management maps                     15, 1998
for Tabora Region.
Maps to FBD and
RFO Tabora
7.  Fully-costed and    RFO Tabora       September    Completed.
updated plan for                    30, 1998
accelerated boundary
clearing in Tabora
Region, to IDA and
FBD.
8.  Prepare             RFEOs in         November    Completed
documentation      Mwanza and       15, 1998
outlining the      Tabora
approaches
undertaken to
establish and to
register ngitiris
together with
observations and
constraints
associated with their
registration and use.
9.  Undertake evaluation  Consultant     Consultancy   Completed
of ngitiris and Joint               to commence
Forest Management.                  before
Report to FBD/IDA.                  November
15, 1998
Lands Component



Appendix A                             48
Task               By whom          Target date   Remarks
10. Complete village    MLHSD            October 31,   Demarcation of village
demarcation in                      1998         lands was completed in
Kagera, Singida, and                              Kagera and Singida. Small
Arusha regions                                    areas of Arusha and
Kilimanjaro regions remain
undemarcated, pending
settlement of disputed
boundaries.
11. Complete surveying   MLHSD           October 15,   Completed.
of demarcated                       1998
village boundaries in
Tabora Region
12. Complete surveying   MLHSD           March 31,    Mwanza has been
of demarcated                       1999          completed. Mara to be
village boundaries in                             completed in April 1999.
Shinyanga, Mara,                                  Shinyanga to be completed
and Mwanza regions                                by May 1999.
Project
Management
13. Reach agreement     MNRT/PC          October 15,   Decision reached that IDA
with GTZ about need                 1998          funds would not be
for project financing                            required. GTZ-funded
of forest legislation                             workshop to be held in
workshop scheduled                                April, 1999.
for February. 1999.
Convey conclusion
to IDA
14. Prepare Cabinet     FBD              December    Decision made to defer
Paper recommending                  15, 1998      preparation of Cabinet
institutional option                              Paper.
for establishment of
Tanzania National
Forest Resources
Management
Service. Seek
Cabinet approval.



49                             Appendix A
Task               By whom          Target date  I Remarks
15. Prepare and submit   FBD/MNRT        January 15,   IDA not in receipt of copy
request to Treasury                 1999          of request to Treasury
to increase MNRT's
share of retained
revenues to finance
on-going regional
field operations.    I
Copy to IDA
16. Identify members of  FBD/MNRT        November    Members identified
new project                         15, 1998
preparation working
group
17. Prepare proposal    FBD/MNRT         October 5,    Japanese Grant proposal
which outlines the                  1998          submitted. Approval
inputs required for                               anticipated, shortly. PPF
project preparation                               request submitted;
for the next IDA                                  additiona' required
project                                          I documentation under
preparation.
18. Prepare final project  PC/DPC        February 1,   Completed.
overview as an input               I1999
into the
Implementation
Completion Report                   ____         |
19. Prepare Operational  PC/DPC          February 1,   Completed.
Plan which outlines                1999
activities which will
continue after the
project's close, with
key performance
indicators and an
indication of
financing gap






1v.Uasaks  r   ( "  i iGAND tToKi4i  IBRD 22789
t  /  v   }      ,;; ,'8','.                                                                                       | |           >tJCANDQ             \ <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IrOAD 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T rr ,    3,   a                                                                      .A' .W:
KA   ;E-P,        A  R                                                                                           ,AN5
B/Rc'J/NDI
KILIMANJARO~~~TNZNI
'ARIA~ ~~Ga/
Mtse f   Mbeya   g < /  SS   r.   . - - .I- .  -A-MKOMAZ-                       TANZANIA 4y
m-- sa-_FOREST RESOURCE
/~~ 0k4'  Sieg/da ~~~MANAGEMENT PROJECT
~~i  /-  --.wirR -N e9n                                    apt.
Tabora a *                                                                                                      Village Demarcation
TN    L Lsaka )                Srid       and Registration
ANA  5                       ~~~~MWAN A  PaeRpr
i Zasz/basf/as                                 RI~ie ia 16des/snth,
e world B nkA5 sT f f l    e      x     c      l     L      s     i     v     e     l     r           \          {\P' PIX s1sty Program,
G.R,                                                                                                                 Ar-        in~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aes rs se
G R                             40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~19571-23/tettirios
-          DAR ES 5A/fM'
P) E   lring.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                        N~~~~~~~ational Par,ke
mba-g        a        isf e.                                                                                                 Mafa           -           Barge Mosne- t
on Shss mop do 10f Impfr on 1he  _t       ) I /          \  l/  I f .tr   ~~~~~~~~~                            0-s                            Sssaiday toad
Makamba5a5f of  Thc  Wodd  Bpnk  GnfirMiR                                                             -d.r
S e-,/d,s Rapd
~~~3i'  -3s.'lZAMBIAU                                                                                                                                        Nn=lTttSa a n. Cipi lni
Ajedi                  RegVOsr BoasdascsSptemer  99
I -k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/teei55IBsdie
MIs-sar
ps aT ~WorId 8- G-,r
32-                                                   oMOZAMBIQUE                                                         iritso         o    ir      5 a
5epte-ahr 199]






r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~1 N2 Noylnor,                                            3                T'o Slsinpnoo34
32'                   HAMAf                     33 r4
4'                                                                Ugishe                                 JorT,,~,,o5                   ruosTh               4o
:KISASIGA   |                         o,0OooOn
PAEG
KARITU
A;Til<                                            FOREST                                 Zi\o
,T- ^,  ,        o"~ _AHL _  _   |              (A |        DONGHO
NGUKUM                   FOREST                    -i
eJA IGOMIE<  'r-~~              .~IEV~    RESERV          RESERVE I
.0             o-o ~~~~r7o  IE~OREST                                                           _IJYAMBIU
-       h e  4  3  Oi  R  4         RUMA _o     iY,$    \          ff>Yi    gFORboli   N ORT
FOREST           ~~~RESTRE
(0    /     O  ''L    ___._ -                                            4j            RESERVE          
5  FOREST    /   /  FOREST RESERYE                  FORSTE  \  k,eo
/  t   6AME RE:SERVE    ---             ,                                           OWEKO
5-                                          U-1b.                                               --RNORHSUGALL
FORESTdWeX ;,RESERVEoW*AEStrARREI5VEERRVE    >  ,ET
GAME RESERVE~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEV
Toktpoodo  y\:,                                   ff \ALA R:VER  0                       NYAHUA MBUDGA FOREST RESERVE
\FORES? RESERVE ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ESRV
MPND  N H UUGANDA                  S          'ON
6ORE            '                                  / SOR
\  /           SWANGALAL         4.'<        <                               '
FOREST RESERVE E  FO/RES
RESERITUW HVE              FOREST RESERVE *
0  10 20 304050                                                                                      oF'1-.  f,  4
KILOMETERS RAS\
coorveolece of reoders ond is eYclosively for the internol oo# of te World >t\''-<--
Bank Group. The denomrinotions usedanodthe boundories shown on this      ',                                                              S> ?/ v??0  ,       ?
mhopdo oot roply, on the ponl of The World Rook Group, err) judgmrent   S                    
on the lego)l srot us of sny territory or anry endorsemen t or occeptonce of             Iu 
such IrouodVries                                                              .
32 M                                        ; ' z         N          MBUb      FOREST          34
X UGANDAi    A               1
6'                                                  SR.,7   )TSOMAIA                 T ANZA
<<   /   KENYA |FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
; ukeis                S                        FOREST RESERVES INKTABORA REGION
s.wS   z   \     /;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEBMPZ
Ololorlo                      FOREST                       lId ~~~~~~~~~~r-RETAD'
kWANDA  -              / ~ ~~~~~SANAL
IIURUNDIAOPrOM                  /   -                        ROADS                              RESERVES BY CLASS.
AnWorn)eo of                                                                       I     HI    ,NORTHERN RESERVES
.   ;t   ;               - t   1~      ~     ~~NDIA  -t--I RAILROADS                     ____CENTRAL RESERVES
,snpkrejh)E  rA N Z A N~ ! Soooon  >                       00O SELECTED CITIES                            iOTENRSRE
I        ZABI                  .01          >' X                        REGION CAPITAL                         RESERVE BOUNDARIES
~~)~ 1 J>> F t ; -~~~ REGION BOUNDARIES                                                           -  -ENCROACHMENT WITHIN RESERVESiI
o        I       MALAWI       MZfBQE-                                                                                                                     I'
_~~~~~~~~~1 20 3040_



