c> Jtb -/ A1
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 9964-TA
RepoTrA No.  X9340-3  Type:  (SAR )
COTEAJ,   V  X508   /J11140/ AF6AG
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 23, 1991
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
Ihi document has a resticted distuibutioen and may be sed by recipients ondy in the performance of
their ofliefzl duties. lts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autoriZlazion.



CURRUNCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Tanzanian Shilling (Tsh)
USDI.0 - Tah 200 (at time of appraisal)
USDI.0 = Tsh 230 (September 1991)
FISCAL YEAR
July I to June 30
MEASURES
metric system
ACRONYMS
DANIDA           Danish International Development Agency
DFO              District Forest Officer
DPC              Deputy Project Coordinator
EEC              European Economic Community
EA               Environmental Assessment
ERP              Economic Recovery Program
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
ESAP             Economic and Social Action Program
ESMAP            Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
FAO CP           United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Programme
FBD              Forestry and Beekeeping Division
FEA              Forestry Extension Assistant
FINNIDA          Finnish International Development Agency
GIS              Geographic Information System
GPS              Global Positioning System
GTiZ             Deutsche Gesellsehaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
HASHI            Hifadhi Ardhi Shinyanga Programme
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IRA              Institute for Resource Assessment
IUCN             International Union for the Conservation of Nature
LDSD             Land Development Services Division
MALD             Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
MLHUD            Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
MTNRE            Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resources and the Environment
NEMC             National Environmental Management Council
NGO              Nongovernmental Organization
NLUPC            National Land Use Planning Commission
NORAD            Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NVDPC            National Village Demarcation Program Coordinator
ODA              Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PAA              Project Assistant Administrator
PCC              Project Coordination Committee
PMO              Prime Minister's Office
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
RFEO             Regional Forest Extension Officer
RFO              Regional Forest Officer
;RS              Regional Surveyor
SFO              Senior Forest Officer
SIDA             Swedish International Development Authority
SMD              Survey and Mapping Division
TAFORI           Tanzania Forestry Research Institute
TFAP             Tropical Forestry Action Plan
TWICO            Tanzania Wood Industry Corporation
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
VEA              Village Extension Agent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNrrED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EQ=ST RESQ'JRCES MANAGEMENT PROJECr
STAEE APPRAISAL REPO
Iale of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ..............................   i-iii
1. BACKGROUND   ...........................................    1
A. Introduction  .....                                                                  I
B. The Economy and the Forestry Subsector .......1....................    I
C. Forestry Resources and Production  ...........................    3
Natural Forests and Woodlands  ..........................   3
Plantations  .......................................    3
D. Utilization of Forest Resources ..............................   4
E. Forest Policy and Legislation ...............................    5
F. Support Institutions ................................  6
Forestry Services  ............................ ...    7
Land Services ................................  8
G. The Forestry Budget ...............                  ................    8
H. Donor Support ...........                   ....................    9
I. Project Genesis ...........                 ....................   10
J. Past Assistance and Lessons Leaned  . .........................   11
E. SECTORAL ISSUES  ...........                        ....................   13
A. Resource Information ................................ 13
B. Forestry Issues ...........                 ....................   13
Long-term Financing of the Forestry Subsector .....           ............  14
Pricing of Forest Products and Forest Revenue Collection ....         ......  14
Afforestation and the Pricing of Seedlings ......          ..............  16
Management of Miombo Woodlands  .......                ................   17
C. Land Issues........                                                      ..... 17
Land Policies .......                                                          17
Village Demarcation, Titling and Registration .19
m. THE PROJECT  ...........................................   21
A. Project Rationale and Objectives .........            ....................  21
Rationale  ........................................   21
Objectives ........................................  21
B. Project Summary Descripdon ...........               ....................  22
& rMont is based on the finduin  of a po".tpisa misin which visited Tanzania in May 1991.  m niision
compried Measrs. D. Cotdear (niion heder and economis). W. Lusconbe (natural roeur  specialist), A. Hoben
(s0rpologist). A. Kir (foraster), nd Ms. P. Tuito (forester). Mun. Raymond Nornha (AFTA(), Ohan Bqaykl
(ASTAG), and Enrique Rueda-Sabar (CECPS) were the peor reviewes focausig on lands, foresy, and economics
respectively, for do oprtion. Ms. BDbem Pitwn nd Mr. Aiyadui Rangnathn asted in the preparstion of tho
SAR. Mr. Chaii Neman is de managing  Diion Chief and Mr. Stephen Deaing is the Datmnt Dictor for
th opeaton.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C. Detailed Project Features .................................  23
Strengthening Natural Resources Monitoring and Forest Policies ..     23
Strengthening Land Policy and Institutions  ..26
Strengthening Regional and District Forest Services in Mwanza and
Tabora  . .28
D. Cost Estimates..                                                          35
E. Financing   ..36
F. Procurement   ..37
Civil Works   ..37
Vehicles and Equipment                     ..                         38
Technical Assistance and Services ..          . .                     38
G. Disbursement .................................3 .....  39
H. Accounts and Audits ......  40
IV. Project Implementation ......  41
A. Organization and Management .....   41
B. Monitoring and Evaluation and Reporting .....    44
D. Mid-term Review .....  45
V. Benefits, Risks and Sustainability .....   46
A. Benefits ....  46
Quantifiable Benefits .....   46
Non-Quantifiable Benefits .....   47
B. Impact on Environment .....   48
C. Gender Issues .....  48
D. Private Sector Development .....   48
E. Poverty Alleviation .....   49
F. Sustainability ....   49
G. Risks and Uncertainties .....   49
VI. Assurances and Recommendation .....   51
List of Text Tables
Table 1: The 1990/91 Budget for Forestry Services (Approved Estimates)
Table 2: Project Cost Summary
Table 3: Financing Plan
Table 4: Procurement Method and Disbursements
Lis olf Annexes
Annex 1:      Forestry and Lands Background
Table 1:      Forest Area Distribution
Table 2:      Potential for Revenue Collection
Table 3:      Comparison of Royalty Fees, 1981, 1987 and 1990
Table 4:      Distribution of Villages by Region
Table 5:      Benefits from Miombo Woodlands



Annex 2:      TFAP yand Donor Support
Table 1:     TFAP Targets
Appendix 1   TFAP Recommendations and Development Program
Table 2:     Existing and Proposed Donor Support to the TFAP
Table 3:     Ongoing Donor-funded a.; Related Forestry Projects
Annex 3:      Institutional Organization
Chart 1:     Organization of Forestry and Beekeeping Division
Chart 2:     Organization of the Ministry of Regional Administration and
Local Government for Forestry Activities
Annex 4:      Project Coordination Terms of Reference
Appendix 1:  Project Coordinator Terms of Reference
Appendix 2:  Deputy Project Coordinator (Land Policier, and Institutions
Component) Terms of Reference
Annex 5:      Component I Terms of Reference
Appendix 1:  National Reconaissance-Level Land Use and Natural Resource
Mapping
Appendix 2:  Resource Information Specialist Terms of Reference
Appendix 3:  Improvement and Monitoring of Royalty Collection Systems
Terms of Reference
Appendix 4:  Revenue Collection Study: Main Results
Appendix 5:  !"^tification of Best Practices for Forest Activities Terms of
P lerence
Appendix 6:  Long-Term Financing of Forestry Terms of Referenc_
Appendix 7:  Location of the Natural Resource Information Center
Annex 6:      Land Policies Study Terms of Reference
Appendix 1:  Land Policies Study
Annex 7:      Village Demarcation, Titling and Registration
Terms of Reference
Appendix 1:  Cadastral Advisor Terms of Reference
Appendix 2:  Land Records Specialist Terms of Reference
Table 1:     Implementation Schedule
Annex 8:      Mwanza Operational Annex
Table 1:     Mwanza: Summary of Outputs from Extension
Appendix 1:  Regional Forest Extension Officer Terms of Reference
Appendix 2:  Community Development Specialist Terms of Reference
Appendix 3:  Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist Terms of Reference
Appendix 4:  Extension Training Specialist Terms of Reference
Annex 9:      Tabora Operational Annex
Table 1:     Tabora:Forestry Extension - Summary of Outputs
Appendix 1:  Forest Management Specialist Terms of Reference
Appendix 2:  Forest Mensuration Specialist Terms of Reference
Appendix 3:  Socioeconomist Terms of Reference



Annex 10:      Project Organization and Management
Chart 1:     Organization
Chart 2:     Flow of Funds
Annex 11:      Economic Project Appraisal
Table 1:     Economic Analysis
Table 2:     Mwanza: Sensitivity Analysis
Annex 12:      Costs, Disbursement and Cofinancing
Appendix 1:  List of Detailed Cost Tables in the Project File (Appraisal
Mission Working Paper)
Table 1:     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 2:     Project Cost Sunmnary
Table 3:     Sumrnmary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 4:     Project Components by Year
Table 5:     Project Components by Year (totals including contingencies)
Table 6:     Summary Accounts by Year
Table 7:     Summary Accounts by Project Components
Table 8:     Financing Plan by Project Components
Table 9:     Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
Annex 13:      Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 14:      Supervision Plan
Appendix 1:  Supervision Plan
Table 1:     Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Table 2:     Key Performance Indicators
Appendix 2:  Summary Contents of the Annual Work Plan
Annex 15:    Accounting/Auditing Guidelines
Annex 16:    Selected Documents in the Project File
List of Maps
Village Demarcation and Registration
Forest Resources in Tabora Region



i
TAINZANIA
FORESTs RESOURCES MANAGEMLNT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PRO. CT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resources and the Environment;
Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development; and
smallholders.
Amount:             SDR 13.2 million (USD18.3 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Obiectives:   The broad objective of the proposed Project is to support the
implementation of the Tanzania Tropical Forestry Action Plan (IFAP)
by strengthening the capacity of the institutions in charge of
developing and implementing forest and land policies and by
increasing the participation of the private sector and local populations
in the management of natural resources in Tanzania. The Project has
three specific objectives: (i) to strengthen institutions in charge of the
development of forest policies and forest and natural resources
information; (ii) to support the developm'ent of rural land policies,
strengthen crucial govei-umental and nongovernmental organizations in
charge of the implementation of these policies, and support the
implementation and monitoring of Govermment's policy of village
demarcation and titling; and (iii) to strengthen regional and district
forestry institutions in the Mwanza and Tabora regions.
Project DescriDtion:   The Project includes investments over a six-year period to: (a)
Strengthen Natural Resources Monitoring and Forest Policies:
This component will support: collection of national natural resource
information and development of a natural resource information
system; development and implementation of improved practices for
royalty collection and for afforestation based on private sector
nurseries and active participation from local people; and preparation of
an action plan for the long-term financing of the forestry subsector;
(b) Strengthen Land Policies and Institutions: This component will
support the development of land policies and Government's ongoing
program of village demarcation, titling, and registration; and (c)
Strengthen Regional and District Forest Services in Mwanza and
Tabora Regions: This component will support the development of
regional forest management plans and associated forest service
reorganization and training. In Mwanza, where most of the forest
cover has been lost, the main activities relate to extension for
reforestation, using techniques which have been piloted successfully



ii
by a nongovernmental oiganization in the region. In Tabora, where
most of the land is wooded, activities will focus on forest reserve
management and village woodland management, involving the active
participation of the local population, and applied research.
Benefits:           The Project will strengthen the policy, information and institutional
base for managing Tanzania's forest and land resources in an
economically, socially and ecologically sound manner. The Project
will generate quantifiable benefits from three sources: (i) improved
rmlanagement of some 450,000 ha of forests on a pilot basis; estimates
based exclusively oi. the reduction of the incidence of forest fires in
the Project area suggest an economic rate of return (ERR) for this
activity of about 13%; (ii) more effective and intensive forestry
extension services in two regions will allow an increased production of
privately grown firewood and poles with an estimated ERR of 12%;
and (iii) an improved revenue collectfion system will yield revenue
increases in the range of 50-150%. The Project also will generate
non-quantifiable benefits from three main sources: (i) the new natural
resource information and monitoring system will enable Govermment
to prioritize investments based on a better knowledge of alternative
interventions; (ii) the development and implementation of forest
policies will increase the participation of local people in the
management of forest resources, encourage the planting of trees, and
provide incentives for appropriate uses of the forest resource; and (iii)
the preparation of national land policies and improved village
demarcation will improve security of land tenure, provide incentives
for viiiage management of natural resources, and contain incipient
tendencies towards inequality and landlessness. The Project will
benefit women through increased training in the management and use
of forest resources in Mwanza and Tabora; the constraints faced by
women in land use and management will be addressed by the land
policy study. In the development of policy and in its forest
management activities in Mwanza and Tabora, the Project will
specifically address the needs of the poor.
Risks:              The primary risks to the Project are delays in the formulation and
implementation of policies and delays in the strengthening of the forest
services. Government already has indicated its commitment to
minimize these risks by requiring enforcement of higher forest fees,
introducing prices for seedlings, and appointing a national village
demarcation program coordinator and a national coordinator for
village titling. Given the unceiainties concerning the demand among
villagers for forestry extension and the demarcation and titling of
villages in Mwanza and Tabora, the Project will take a phased pilot
approach, initiating forestry extension activities on a small scale and
expanding them gradually once experience has been gained. This
modest intervention is justified, despite the existing uncertainties, by
the high environmental costs that will arise if no intervention were
attempted to promote afforestation in the already deforested region of
Mwanza and to limit uncontrolled deforestation in Tabora.



iii
1. Estimaed Costs and Financing Plan
Project Cost Summr
Proiect Costs W
-USD Million-
EmoQ¢t CoRooes                           Foreign       Local       Total       % of
Total
Strengthening Natural Resources Monitoring  3.1         1.2         4.3         24
and Forest Policies
Strengthening Land Policies and hInitutions  3.5        2.3         5.8         33
Strengthening Regional and District Forest  5.6         2.2         7.8         43
Services in Mwanza and Tabora Regions
Total Base Cost                            12.2         5.7        17.9        100
Physical Contingencies                      0.3         0.2         0.4          2
Price Contingencies                         1.7         0.9         2.6         14
Total Project Costs                        14.2         6.8        20.9        116
A/ Excludes duties and taxes.
Financing Plan
USD Million
Foreign      Local       Total
IDA                                        13.5         4.8        18.3
OTHER FINANCIERSL'                          0.7        0.01         0.7
GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA                      0.0         1.9         1.9
TOTAL                                      14.2         6.7        20.9
1/     NORAD is at an advanced stage of preparation )f its support for a Natural Resource
Information Center.
2. Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
(USD Million)
IDA            FY       92         93        94         95         96          97
Annual                   4.2        4.9       2.7        3.0        1.9         1.6
Cumulative               4.2        9.1      11.8       14.8       16.7        18.3



I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01         The Project aims to improve the management of forests and woodlands in
Tanzania by strengthering the capacity of the institutions in charge of developing and
implementing forest and land policy and increasing the participation of the private sector and
'cal populations in the management of natural resources. Since the early 1970s, the
emphasis of World Bank lending to the forestry subsector has gradually shifted from almost
exclusive financing of industrial forestry projects to financing social or rural development and
environmental forestry projects. This shift has been accompanied by a growing recognition
that sustainable utilization of the natura-l forest resource denends on sound policies and
management. Both Tanzania's Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP) and the 1991 World
Bank Forest Pviicy Paper c!eaAly reflect this emphasis on sound policies and management.
1.02         The TFAP was developed following a thorough review of the forestry
subsector and related land issues by the Government of Tanzania with support from some 20
donors in 1988 and 1989. It identifies crucial technical and policy issues in forestry and
indicates the options available for sustained development in the sulmector. Its main
recommendations include, inter alia, that: information on natural resource use be collected and
permanently monitored; institutions in charge of natural resources be strengthened; emphasis
in forest policy be shifted from state control to greater local participatien in woodland and
forest management; extension and training be improved; and market incentives be provided in
order to expand tree planting by individuals and groups. The TFAP has become a mechanism
for investment planning and donor coordination in the forestry sibsector. This Project has
been designed to facilitate implementation of the TFAP (Annex 2).
1.03         While preparation of the Project preceded the 1991 World Bank Forest Policy
Paper, the Project is consistent with its recommendations, inter alia, to develop zoning and
regulations on the basis of natural resource surveys in the forested areas, improve private
sector incentives by increasing royalty fees to reflect the real value of trees, formalize
customary land rights for forest dwellers, and strengthen forestry institutions to enhance their
ability to protect designated forest areas.
B. The Economy and the Forestry Subsector
1.04         Since the mid-1980s, Tanzania's economy has been recovering from nearly a
decade of economic stagnation and declining per capita incomes that followed rapid growth
during the mid-1960s and early 1970s. The downturn was caused, in part, by external factors
including successive droughts, rapid increases in oil prices, collapse of the East African
Community, and war with Uganda. It was compounded by internal weaknesses in economic
management, including inadequate incentives and resource allocation to the agriculture sector,
an overly ambitious and uneconomic industrialization strategy, excessive administrative
controls over economic activity, and continued growth in the size of the public sector. The



result was GDP growth of only 0.4% per annum between 1978 and 1982, with agricultural
and industrial output declining by 2.9% and 16.6% per annun., respectively.
1.05         In the mid-1980s, Goverment launched an extensive reform progran.
Import liberalization measures were implemented in 1984, the Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) was adopted in 1986, and the Ecenomic and Social Action Program (ESAP) was
launched in 1989. Macroeconomic reforms addressed the exchange rate, foreign exchange
allocation, trade policy, pricing policy, fiscal and monetary policies, and interest rates.
Sectoral reforms in agriculture supported by the Agricultural Adjustmen: Credit (Cr 1 160-TA)
addressed marketing and pricing issues. Since 1983, the econrmy has allowed for modest
growth in per capita GDP, reversing the rapid decline from 1976 to 1983.1'
1.06         Agriculture is the largest sector in the Tanzanian economy, providing 40-A%
of GNP about 80% of exports, and over 80% of employment. The main cash crops are
coffee, cotton, sisal, tobacco, tea, cashewnut, pyrethrum and cloves; the main food crops are
maize, sorghum, millet, rice, grain, legumes, cassava, banana, wheat and sugarcane.
Smallholder production dominates the sector. During the first decade after Independence, the
production of smallholder export crops expanded rapidly; the volume of marketed coffee,
cotton, cashewnuts and tobacco doubled between 1969/61 and 1966/67 and doubled again by
1973/74 for cashewnuts and tobacco. Self-sufficiency in food crops was achieved by the late
1960s. In the 1970s and the early 198%s, however, several new government policies
including villagization, the dissolution of cooperatives, the establishment of parastatal export
and food crop marketing monopolies, the closure of private shops, the confinement of
agricultural input supplies to a few aqencies, and the encouragement of heavy industry at the
expenmie of smallholder agriculture, led to a steep decline in export crop production and a
str.t a:ion in food production. Between 1978 and 1985, sectoral growth averaged only 1%
per annum. Export crop production fell, on average, by 8% per annum between 1976 and
1985, more than halving agricultural export revenues from a peak of USD426 million in 1977
to USD184 million in 1985. Domestic food crop production over the period barely kept pace
with population growth. The policy reforms adopted since 1984 have helped stimulate
recovery in agricultural production, particularly of food crops. In addition to exchange rate
adjustments that have benefitted producers of both food and export crops, Government has,
inter alia, increased producer prices in real terms and liberalized the marketing of maize and
certain export crops and input distribution. Agricultural growth has accelerated, with overall
growth rates of 3.5% in 1986, 4.4% in 1987, and approximately 5% in each year through
1990.
1.07         The forestry subsector contributes significantly to Tanzania's economy. The
subsector generates about 10% of the country's registered exports and some 730,000 person-
years of employment. Although its officially recorded contribution to GDP in 1987 was only
Tsh 1.7 billion (1-2% of GDP), its real contribution is underestimated, as most consumption
of wood, particularly fuelwood, is unrecorded. The TFAP estimated a total output value of
about Tsh 28 billion per annum-about 15 times larger than the official figure. Half of this
total value comes from wood production (mainly fuelwood and charcoal), a third from
1/ A detilod review of the achievements of Tanzania's econoniic reform progmm iuince the mid-1980s and
conftaints to continued econonmc rcovery is contined in the Tanzania Eiconomic Report entitled 'Towards
Sustainable Developnma in the 1990s" (Report No. 9352-TA), June 11, 1991.



- 3 -
wildlife-based activities (including related tourism), and the rest from beekeeping and other
economic activities (paras 1. 11-1.16).
C. Forestry Resources and Production
1.08           All land in Tanzania is formally owned by the Government. Roughly half the
area of Tanzania, about 44 million ha, is covered by forests and woodlands.2' Of this area,
about 1.5 million ha are closed forests and mangroves and about 43 million ha are open
woodlands (Annex 1, Table 1). Plantations occupy about 0.15 million ha.2' Miombo
woodland, dominated by Brachystegia and Isoberlinia species, comprises the largest
woodland area. Forest types are broadly classified as: (i) natural forests and woodlands-
which contain forest reserves and public land 1; and (ii) plantationm.
Natural Forests and Woodlands
1.09           According to the TFAP, the standing volume of trees in closed forests is 197
m3/ha and in woodlands the standing volume is 15-47 m3/ha. The estimated annual increase
in the harvestable volume of woodlands is about 70 million i3, while the annual extraction of
wood from these areas is approximately 28 million m3. Large areas of woodlands still remain
untapped, although the woodlands in relatively densely populated and accessible areas have
been overexploited. Forest reserves cover about 13 million ha, excluding the island of
Zanzibar; there are some 540 forest reserves, ranging in size from 3 ha to 872,000 ha. Some
10-11 million ha of reserves are regarded as production forests, while the balance are
protected forests. National parks contain 2 million ha of forests. Most of the 29 million ha
of forest land outside forest reserves and national parks is generally referred to as public land.
('The forest types, distribution, use and legal status are shown in Annex 1, Table 1.)
Plantations
1.10          The total area in plantations is not known exactly because there is no record
of privately owned plantations. Public sector industrial plantations consisting of about 80,000
ha are managed by the Forestry and Beakeeping Division (FBD). The most important species
in these plantations are Pinus gaflla and Cupressus lusitanica in the highlands, and Einus
caribaea in the lowlands, although some areas have been planted with Eucalyptus. The
standing volume varies between 300-600 m3/ha, with annual yields of 15-25 m3/ha. At
present, the annual allowable cut is 1.2 million m3, while industrial capacity i[ only 0.9
million m3. A backlog of mature timber is therefore accumulatirg, reducing returns on past
investment. In 1992, FBD is expected to rationalize the management and ownership of the
2/ While th term "foresw  refers to al forest types, the term "woodlands" is being used to specifically distinguish
open uvaima forest types (tropical or subtropical grassland containing scattered trees and drought-restnt
underWowth).
3/ Plttions refer to areas where tres ar under cultivation.
4/ Forest  erves are tmcts of forsts set apart for special management (parm. 1.17-1.20). Public land is land that
ha not been formally allocated to any individual, grup, or institution and is not within the boundaries of resrves.



plantations.;' Privately owned plantations and woodlots, managed by organizations and
individuals for different uses, cover roughly 70,000 ha. Wattle tree plantations are important
both in terms of area and their contribution to the economy as a source of foreign exchange
earnings through the export of tannin (para 1. 14).Y
D. Utilization of Forest Resources
1.11          Forests and woodlands provide a stream of benefits locally, nationally, and
globally. Apart from providing wood p;oducts that can be used directly for fuel and building
materials, they provide a variety of food and medicinal products. Woodlands also are valued
as grazing lands for cattle and as a source of browse fodder for livestock. Forests and
woodlands play an important role in maintaining ecological balance, protectirg soil from
erosion, and conserving water, wildlife and a wide variety of endemic plants. The forests and
woodlands contain a wealth of biological diversity that provides genetic resources for
medicinal, scientific and other uses-all contributions to the economy that are difficult to
quantify. The most famous areas for wildlife, such as the Serengeti National Park, the
Ngorongoro Conservation Area and the Selous Game Raserve, are of global importance, and
have been classified as World Heritage Sites by UNESCO. Trees are considered to play a
significant role in retaining carbon dioxide and thereby counteracting the build-up of carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere.
1.12          One of the most important uses of wood in Tanzania is for fuel. Over 90% of
the country's energy supply is met by fuelwood. The TFAP estimates annual consumption at
about 27 million i3. About 22 million  3, or approximately 1 m3 per capita, is consumed by
households. The remainder is used in manufacturing and processing industries (tobacco and
tea curing, brick and pottery making, and fish smoking) as well as in the services sector
(schools, restaurants and hospitals). According to the TFAP, the long-term fuelwood demand
is projected to grow by 1.5% per annum, which is lower than the population growth rate of
3.3%. This growth rate assumes that fuelwood demand will be contained by improvements in
the efficiency of converting biomass fuel and increasing use of electricity. Nevertheless, it is
estimated that fuelwood demand will reach 37.5 million e3 in the year 2008. At present, the
bulk of fuelwood comes from the miombo woodlands. The supply of fuelwood from
industrial and private plantations is relatively insignificant.
1.13          Total industrial wood consumption iia 1988 was estimated at about
730,000 e3, of which 53% was used by sawmilling, 22% by pitsawing, 20% by pulp and
paper mills, and the remainder by the joinery/furniture industry. Since nationalization began
in 1967, the public sector has become primarily responsible for industrial wood processing.
The Tanzania Wood Industry Corporation (I'WICO) is the main parastatal in charge of wood
processing. In the past decade, the forestry industry has moved from using only indigenous
hardwood from natural forests to using softwood from plantations. Even though more than
SI Severd ahlentives, including privatizaion of whole plantations, division into smaller plots for privatization, and
conversion to pamastas, arm being considered. SIDA is providing financial support for the planning of this process
as part of its support for reform of the wood-processing industry.
6/ Tannin is a plant substance used in tanning, dyeing, ink maldng, and medicines.



- 5 -
two-thirds of total industrial log consumption consists of softwood, there is a large surplus of
mature trees in the existing plantations. This surplus will increase further as younger
plantations come into nroduction. Several donors are supporting the reform and development
of the wood industry (Annex 2, Table 1).
1.14         Forests and plantations provide useful non-wood products such as honey,
beeswax, tannin, gum arabic and medicinal plants. Honey is one of the most important
products; exports in 1988 totalled USD800,000 and local consumption is estimated at 6,000
tons per annum. Honey is produced by tens of thousands of farmers in the miombo
woodlands. Another product is wattle extract; in 1987, Tanzania exported 5,000 tons valued
at USD4 million. There are no reliable production data for the other commodities.
1.15         As data are scarce, only rough estimates can be made of the benefits accrued
locally, nationally and globally from an average hectare of miombo woodlands and the
potential to further increase these benefits through improved management (which could be
substantial). One set of estimates made during the environmental assessment of the Project is
shown in Annex 1, Table 5*2' At the local level, the present value of forest production is
estimated to be USD1,050 per ha based on the value of sustainable harvesting of wood,
beekeeping, and other benefits associated with forests such as fruits, mushrooms and edible
fibers; medicinal products; game meat; and soil and water conservation. At the national
level, the value of forests is estimated to be USD750 per ha on the basis of royalties
collected, exports, and earnings from tourism. At the global level, the value is calculated to
be USD1,500 per ha based on the recycling and fixing of CO2.
1.16         These estimates indicate that the economic benefits from forests and
woodlands are greater than generally assumed and that under certain circumstances, forests
could be the most profitable form of land use. More reliable estimates of benefits are
constrained by lack of data. The proposed Project will seek to generate the data required to
more precisely estimate the benefits from Tanzania's forests.
E. Forest Policy and Legislation
1.17         The current Forest Policy was published by Government in Sessional Paper
No. 1 of 1953. The principal aim was to create a national forest estate by means of legally
constituted forest reserves under the control of the Central Government Forestry Division.
The expressed intention was to reserve up to 8% of the total land area, to establish at least
16,000 ha of fuel, pole and timber plantations, and to sustain an export trade in indigenous
hardwoods and softwoods. Nearly 15% of the total land area of the country has been
effectively reserved. The policy recognized two main categories of reserves: Central
Government and Local Government Reserves. Formally, of the 13 million ha of forest
reserves, approximately 10 million ha are Central Government Reserves and 3 million ha
Local Government Reserves. In practice, local governments are responsible for most
reserves. Because of unclear institutional responsibilities, lack of management plans, and
inadequate funding, however, most reserves are not effectively managed.
7/ Estimatu by Danagro Adviser a/s & Carl Bro International, June 1990.



- 6 -
1.18         The forest legislation in force is the Forestry Ordinance of 1957. This
ordinance empowers the Government to carry out the main objectives of the Forest Policy. It
establishes the authority of the FBD to protect the Central and Local Government Reserves,
and to control activities within them. The revenues from Local Government Reserves are to
go to the local government. The ordinance also empowers the Minister to declare any tree a
"reserved tree" (mostly valuable commercial species) which cannot be felled or injured on any
lands without a license. On unreserved lands, other trees can be felled for domestic purposes,
or while clearing land for agriculture; however, a license has to be obtained if trees on
unreserved lands are felled for commercial or industrial purposes, or for sale as fuelwood or
charcoal. The ordinance also enables Government to set rates and collect fees and royalties
on forest products from all natural forests and government-owned plantations and to impose
penalties for nonpayment of royalty fees. The Minister, by notice in the Gazette, can give
exemptions from the provisions of the ordinance.
1.19         In practice, enforcement of the ordinance is virtually non-existent, and often
unreserved lands are utilized as open-access areas. Local authorities often issue licenses in
large nunmbers in order to increase their revenues, without much concern for sustaining forests
and woodlands. Forest management is rarely a priority for local authorities, who are not
directly linked to either the regional or the central authorities in forestry matters (para 1.24).
With population increases and the evolution of the economy putting ever-increasing pressure
on the remaining tree cover, Government has recognized that it has neither the staff nor the
funds to plant trees on a sufficient scale to ensure future wood supplies or to manage and
protect a large proportion of the existing forests. There is a need, therefore, to integrate tree
planting into general farming systems and to formalize the management of forests by local
people. As the Government's program to demarcate and title villages progresses (paras 2.22-
2.26), it is expected that most public land will be recognized as village land, and that
communal management will be established or reinforced.
1.20         A draft new Forest Policy was prepared in 1990. As part of its ongoing
dialogue with Government, the Bank has noted that the proposed Policy: (i) lacks a clear
statement that the program gives villages the right and responsiblity to manage forests inside
their boundaries; (ii) does not define mechanisms to improve the collection of revenues; (iii)
lacks definition with respect to the reform/privatization of the Government's plantations; (iv)
gives insufficient support to setting effective priority areas for investments in forestry; and (v)
lacks a program for developing forestry extension to individuals and groups planting trees in
their villages using seedlings grown in private nurseries. Under the proposed Project,
Government will address items i, ii, and v with support from IDA (paras 3.22; 3.11-3.16; and
3.29-3.52) and item iv with support from IDA (paras 3.17-3.19) and FINNIDA. Government
will address item iii with support from SIDA.
F. Suppor" Institutions
1.21         In 1982, the Local Governments Act decentralized the Tanzanian Government,
giving powers-including the management of forests and lands-to the local (district)
governments. While the merits of the act continue to be debated, Government's current
policy is to maintain and strengthen the decentralization of government services. The Bank
has supported decentralization through several of its operations and, in coordination with the
Government, is carrying out a local government study to look at the issue of decentralization



and make recommendations for future actions. The issue of decentralization is part of the
ongoing dialogue between the Bank and Government related to the Public Sector Management
Operation scheduled to be appraised in FY91. In addition, a project to strengthen local
government has been included in the World Bank project pipeline.
1.22         Since November 1990, three central government ministries have been
responsible for the management and administration of lands and forests. Through the FBD,
the Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resources and the Environment (MTNRE) is responsible for
the management and administration of national forest reserves and plantations, the monitoring
of the collection of royalties from public lands which is executed by the local governments,
and the development of policy for the forestry subsector. The Ministry of Lands, Housing
and Urban Development (MLHUD) is responsible for the management and administration of
lands, including public lands which are mostly forested, and the development of land policies.
At the regional and district levels, the regional and local government (district) authorities are
in charge of implementing the policies concerned with lands and forestry. "
1.23         The following sections describe key institutions dealing with forestry and land
services.
Forestry Services
1.24         The forestry service in the regions and districts is headed by Regional Forest
Officers (RFOs) and District Forest Officers (DFOs) who, respectively, report to and are paid
by the Regional and District Administrations. Given the decentralized organization of the
Government, the Director of FBD assumes mainly technical responsibilities with respect to the
regions and districts, including the development and mcnitoring of forest policies that are
implemented in the regions and districts. The only administrative responsibility that the
Director of FBD has in the regions and districts is to post officers to fill vacancies in the
Regional and District Administrations and to execute certain forestry projects chosen for their
national importance. The Director of FBD reports to the Principal Secretary of MTNRE.
(See Annex 3, Chart 1 for the organization of FBD.)
1.25         FBD has six sections: Resource Assessment; Forest Management and
Development; Harvesting and Forest Industries; Beekeeping; Community Forestry; and
Research and Training. Each section is headed by a Senior Forest Officer (SFO). The FBD
has administrative and planning departments headed by more junior officials. FBD also
operates forestry training institutes for technical and vocational staff and a Beekeeping
Training Institute in the Tabora Region. FBD's total staff is about 1,600, of which 67 are
university graduates, 133 are diploma holders, and 188 are certificate holders. There are
about 1,255 forestry staff in the regions and districts, of whom 28 hold a university degree,
166 a diploma, and 291 a certificate.
1.26         FBD in Dar es Salaam is located in cramped government and rented offices.
Due to lack of space, FBD documents and books are stored in locked containers under an
open shelter. There is no library, reading room, or conference room. The present buildings
are not adequate for the installation of computers and other data equipment.
8/ While MLHUD is in charge of the allocation of public Iands, the local and regional govermments arm in charge of
collecting foret royalties on the publaic lands. M1NRE is in charge of monitoring this coLection.



-8 -
Isnd Sericm
1.27         The institutions concerned with land policy, administration and management
that the proposed Project will support are discussed below. Other relevant land services
institutions are described in Annex 5, Appendix 7.
1.28 The Surveying and Mapping Division (SMD): This division of MLHUD is
responsible for cadastral surveys, national mapping, and related research. It carries out the
surveys required to prepare legal deed plans and to establish and demarcate permanent
boundaries for plots of land. In addition, this division is responsible for preparing deed plans
and demarcating the boundaries of all villages in the country. Each of the 20 administrative
regions in Tanzania has its own Regional Land Surveyor who supervises regional land survey
activities, including the surveying of individual plot, farm and village boundaries. The
Regional Land Surveyors, while reporting administratively to the Regional Development
Directors, professionally and technically answer to the central SMD.
1.29 The Land Development Services Division (LDSD): This division of MLHUD,
under the Commissioner for Lands, is responsible for registering and issuing certificates of
title for plots of land which have been surveyed and mapped by SMD. It is also responsible
for the preparation of village title deeds. The division has five zonal offices, each of which
maintains a register for, and has jurisdiction over, several regions.
1.30  Institute for Resource Assessment (IRA): IRA, with 17 qualified professionals, is
an autonomous interdisciplinary research body. It is responsible to the Chief Academic
Officer of the University of Dar es Salaam and reports directly to the University Senate. It is
directed by an 18-person board representing the university, government ministries and
parastatal organizations. IRA collaborates with, and does contract work for, government and
other organizations, including the World Bank. Its main objective is to undertake research
projects relevant to the social, environmental, and economic development of Tanzania,
focusing on the fields of agriculture, population and human settlements, regional planning,
water development, and environmental and natural resource monitoring.
G. The Forestry Budget
1.31         The 1990/91 estimates for the forestry budget as approved by the National
Assembly totalled Tsh 1.3 billion (USD6.5 million), or less than 1% of the total budget.
Experience suggests that actual expenditures may differ from the budgeted figure due to
underspending by Government and out-of-budget spending by donors; actual expenditures may
be in the range of USD5.5 - 7 million. The amount budgeted for recurrent costs is about Tsh
500 million, or 38% of the forestry budget. About one third of donor contributions to the
'development budget" is likely to be used for recurrent costs, however, making the recurrent
budget almost Tsh 700 million (IJSD3.5 million), or half of the total forestry budget (Table
1).
1.32         Total donor commitments to the subsector are likely to increase substantially-
possibly to USD20 million per annum in the next few years; in-country expenditures
(excluding technical assistance) could increase from USD3 to USD15 million. Given this
scenario, donor-supported recurrent expenditures could go up from about USD1 to USD5



-9 -
million. While such an increase is substantial, the amounts involved will still be small as a
proportion of the overall government budget. Most of the increase will be donor-financed and
provided in foreign exchange. The opportunity cost of this increased investment is likely to
be small for the Tanzanian economy as, for most donors, contributions to environment-related
projects are not fungible with the rest of their support program. The implications for
recurrent costs are discussed in para 2.05.
Table 1 The 1990/91 Budeet for Forestry Services (Approved Estimates)
Tsh ('000)
Approved       % of       Of Which
Estimates     Total    Donor Funded
Forestry
Budget
Recurrent                           251,594        19
Development "                       580,785        44         448,000
Regions
Recurrent                            59,500         5
Development                          197,893       15           142,00
Districts
Recurrent 2                          188,250       14
Development                          41,204         3
TOTAL (Tsh 000)                    1,319,226      100          590,000
TOTAL IN USD "                     6,596,130                 2,950,000
TMecurret Costs  MEfic1'alrst'Imates  499,344      3 
Recurrent Costs Bank Estimates 4'   696,011        53          196,667
Recurrent Costs Estimated             3,480                   983,333
(USD'000) 3/
Recurrent Costs as % of Total            53                        33
i/     Includes: Research, communication, training, national projects and forest
industries.
2/     Estimate by Bank mission
3/     Exchange rate: $1 = Tsh 200
4/     Bank calculations indicate that one third of funds contributed by donors to
'development' are really used to pay for recurrent costs.
Source: Budgetary estimates for 1990-91 and field interviews for districts' recurrent
budgets.
H. Donor SuDpDrt
1.33           For the past 15 years, the forestry subsector has been receiving most of its
investment funds from a number of donor agencies, with the Nordic countries and the World
Bank as the principal sources. SIDA has one of the longest histories of support to forestry in
Tanzania, and is one of the largest donors in the subsector. FINNIDA supports the
coordination of the TFAP and projects in forest management, forest industries and beekeeping
extension. The EEC is funding two ongoing projects in agroforestry and is proposing to
initiate another two. FAO has provided technical assistance to a number of projects and
intends to help establish intersectoral coordination mechanisms, resource inventory, and land
evaluation. GTZ supports one agroforestry project and three wildlife management projects,



- 10-
and has agreed to support another agroforestry project and a forest management project.
NORAD is supporting catchment forestry, soil conservation and regional conservation
strategies; it is also in its final phase of support for the Sao Hill Mill. The Netherlands
provides assistance to projects in four districts and in the Dodoma Region and is considering
participation in the Eastern Arc Program, the Wildlife Management Program, and specific
projects in three regions. IUCN is participating in the execution of four projects in
collaboration with different ministries and nongovernmental organizations with funding from
various donor agencies. DANIDA is also planning several activities in the subsector.
1.34         While donor coordination has improved substantially through the introduction
of the TFAP, there continue to be areas of overlap and duplication (e.g., the Eastern Arc
Region) and large areas of underfinancing. The TFAP Secretariat, with support from
FINNIDA and SIDA, is actively involved in solving the problems of overlap, and is giving
renewed effort to setting priorities for a more realistic development program which will take
into account absorptive capacity and available financing. Government and donor priorities
have not always coincided although the situation has improved since the adoption of the
TFAP. The existing and proposed donor support to the forestry subsector by region and
priority thematic areas as classified by the TFAP is shown in Annex 2, Table 2. If the
contributions of the proposed Project are included, 18 of the 20 regions of the country, as
well as all of the main thematic areas, will be receiving donor support.
L. Project Genesis
1.35         In 1984, a UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Report on Tanzania
identified gaps between consumption and sustainable supplies of fuelwood in some densely
populated areas. In 1986, Government requested the UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector
Management Assistance Programme (ESMAP) to conduct a study and propose means for
overcoming this problem. Accordingly, ESMAP undertook a study and prepared a project
preparation report in December 1988. At that time, Government also undertook the
preparation of the TFAP. Appraisal of the ESMAP project was deferred until the TFAP was
completed, in order to ensure compatibility.
1.36         The forestry de.velopment strategy and programs outlined in the TFAP are
much wider in scope than those in the ESMAP report, which essentially focused on energy
matters. An agreement was therefore reached between Government and the World Bank to
expand the scope of the Bank's prospective assistance to include policy and institutional
reforms. Several donors, including the Overseas Development Administration (ODA), also
expressed an interest in supporting forestry development, provided the institutional and policy
reforms proposed under the TFAP were implemented.
1.37         Within this framework, the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization
Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP) prepared the proposed Project for the World Bank in
March 1990. An environmental assessment of the Project (one of the first for a forestry
project in the Africa Region) was carried out. The Project was appraised by a Bank mission
in October 1990. A post-appraisal mission visited Tanzania in May 1991 to make further
adjustments to project design.



- I1 -
J. Past Assistance and Lessons Learned
1.38         To date, Worla Bank assistance to the forestry subsector in Tanzania has
focused on developing plantations to meet future requirements for timber and wood products.
IDA has financed two projects, Sao Hill Forestry Project, Phase I (Loan 1307-TA) and Phase
I (Credit 1229-TA), mainly to establish induistrial plantations of softwoods. Phase I was
implemented during 1976-81; Phase II between 1982-90. IDA also provided assistance to the
forestry subsector under various integrated rural development projects and ESMAP worked
with Government to assess woodfuel and other energy needs.
1.39         Village plantations were established and maintained by communal labor in
Tanzania following the Villages and Ujamaa Act of 1975. One of the lessons learned from
this experience is that plantations may not be successful when farmers are compelled to assist
in their establishment and maintenance but have little or no personal stake in them.
Additional problems stem from overly ambitious programs unrelated to available means, local
land use conflicts, poor selection of species and sites, and the distrust of community leaders.
Government's current approach, and the approach taken in this Project, is to emphasize
planting by individuals, households and schools.
1.40         The World Bank has financed 94 projects worldwide in the forestry subsector
with total commitments in excess of $2.5 billion. The World Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department identified lessons learned from these projects in its 1991 report, Forestry
DeveloDment: A Review of Bank Experience (Report No. 9524). The lessons incorporated in
the proposed Project include, inter alia:
Individual projects are insufricient to address broad sectoral concerns. This
Project will give emphasis to subsectoral policy development and implementation
(paras 3.05-3.28). The Project was developed with the objective of complementing
the efforts of other donors in implementing the TFAP and filling regional investment
gaps (Annex 2, Table 2).
An effective mechanism of coordination is crucial if several agencies participate In
the execution of the project. The Project will attempt to strengthen existing
institutional arrangements for coordination. Existing government organizations will be
responsible for project implementation; no ad hoc implementation bodies will be
created. A Project Coordination Committee will be created to provide direction,
approve work programs, and approve reports to be submitted to IDA (para 4.01).
Lanai tenure and potential land use conflicts should be thoroughly investigated.
A component of the Project has been designed explicitly to address issues of land
tenure and land use (paras 3.22-3.28).
Pricing policies should adequately reflect the flow and stock value of the forest.
Pricing of forest products and seedlings has been an area of emphasis throughout
project preparation and appraisal. A new policy has been established introducing the
pricing of seedlings from government nurseries and forest fees have been raised
substantially (paras 2.13 and 2.08).



- 12 -
The high ratio of recurrent costs to capital casts often hinders the sustainability
of forestry projects. This Project will support financial analysis of ongoing and
planned activities in the subsector and the development of a medium-term financial
plan for the subsector (para 3.18).
1.41         The proposed Project is intended to strengthen selected forest and land policies
and institutions and involves a substantial amouni of technical assistance. Many of the lessons
learned from experience with technical assistance in Sub-Saharan Africa, as identified in the
Operations Evaluation Department's 1990 report, Free-Standing Technical Assistance for
Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa (Report No. 8573), have been incorporated
in the project design. The lessons incorporated in the Project include, inter alia:
Technical assistance is likely to be most effective when planned  regard to a
thorough analysis of sector institutional development issues. Stra 4gies should
evolve out of discussions between the government, the Bank and other donors.
The Project was designed on the basis of the TFAP findings and numerous discussions
with Government and other donors. The capacities and constraints of the forestry and
lands institutions have been carefully assessed. Precise weaknesses in priority areas
have been identified by the TFAP and through project preparation, and specific
institutional development obJectives have been defined.
Technical assistance should be utilized only when there is a clear need. In
preparing the Project, Bank staff have worked closely with national counterparts
within the pertinent ministries in order to identify problems requiring technical
assistance. The Project involves mostly short-term consultants with precisely defined
institution-building functions. The need for the levels of technical assistance proposed
for each activity has been confirmed by each of the implementing agencies.
Terms of reference for consultants need to be spelled out in considerable detail,
specifying the tasks to be carried out and the results expected. Detailed terms of
reference for the technical assistance have been agreed with Government. Concrete
objectives have been defined with precise targets. The terms of reference have been
built around these objectives.



13
II. SECTORAL ISSUES
2.01          This chapter details the critical resource information and forestry and land
issues that will be addressed by the proposed Project.
A. Resource Information
2.02          The availability of adequate information about the extent and condition of
natural resources is a basic requirement for their sustainable management. Much of the
existing information on land use, natural resource endowments, and environmental
degradation in Tanzania is out-of-date, general in nature and scale, or sporadic in coverage.
Reliable estimates of current forest cover and information on changes in the physical
environment and cultural practices concerning forests are not available. Not even the rate of
deforestation is known with any degree of certainty; it is estimated to be in the range of
300,000 - 400,000 ha per year. A 1989 pilot study and mapping exercise of vegetation cover
types in an area south of Dar es Salaam surprised authorities by revealing that significant
areas of designated forest reserves are now grasslands cr agricultural areas. Some of the
smaller forest reserves in the area have no forest cover at all.
2.03          Although forest resource inventories and surveys have been conducted in
Tanzania sporadically over many decades, they have often been done on an ad hoc basis and
have always covered only limited areas. The Forest Policy of 1953 sought to acquire forest
lands for reservation purposes to ensure the availability of forest resources for present and
future generations (para 1.17). Activities involving the forest reserves focused mainly on
surveys and demarcation; little attention was given to inventories or resource assessments. As
awareness increased that the forest reserves needed to be managed, or at least better
understood, Government began to assess the growing stock, but the results of most of these
inventories and assessments no longer exist in any of the ,orestry offices and have likely been
misplaced or destroyed. Since 1970, various inventories and assessments of forests and
woodlands have been undertaken with the support of a number of donors in selected areas of
the country. This information, however, is not standardized due to the use of different
methodologies and has not been centralized by any institution.
B. Forestry Issues
2.04          There are several critical forestry issues in Tanzania that need to be
addressed. First, there are uncertainties in the long-term financing of the forestry subsector,
which reflect forestry's lack of integration in Tanzania's long-term national development
plans. Sscond, the pricing policies for forest products and for government-produced seedlings
are inadequate. Third, the forest revenue collection system is weak. Finally, little attention
has been given to the intensive management of miombo woodlands.



- 14 -
hQOn-term Financing of the Forestry Subsector
2.05          A large number of forestry projects are being executed under the umbrella of
TFAP, many with substantial donor support. Most of these projects include an investment
component that creates recurrent expenditure requirements. Financing for a large part of the
recurrent costs of donor-funded projects comes trom donor sources, with small amounts of
counterpart funds coming from Government. Recurrent costs for forestry activities at the
district level are funded by local government revenues which have fallen in recent years and
are barely sufficient to cover salaries. The long-term implications of present investments for
Government's future recurrent cost commitments are unclear. An accurate assessment of
recurrent costs will allow the Government to develop a long-term financial plan out of which
the funds will be allocated.
Pricing of Forest Products and Forest Revenue Collection
2.06         One of the mechanisms for generating revenues for Government is the
collection of royalties from forest reserves and public lands. A forest revenue collection
system can also: (i) limit overharvesting by appropriately pricing forest products; (ii) promote
better wood utilization by encouraging efficient harvesting practices; and (iii) encourage
people to grow trees on their own land by increasing the market value of privately grown
timber. In order for a revenue collection system to meet all these objectives fully, two
conditions must be satisfied. First, fees must be levied at appropriate rates. Second, actual
collection must be effective (i.e., evasion must be made difficult and the costs of
administration must be low relative to the revenues raised). In practice, it is not always
possible to satisfy both conditions, and compromises are often made which result in one or
more of the revenue collection system's objectives not being entirely met. For example,
attaching a fee to standing tin-ber is more likely to achieve the revenue system's objectives
than imposing a fee on the processed product. In the case of charcoal in Tanzania (as
elsewhere), however, practical considerations have dictated that the tax be charged to the
merchant (as opposed to the wood harvester) and per bag (as opposed to the volume of the
timber actually felled). While fficient harvesting is not particularly encouraged by this
practice, cevenues are raised and at a lower administrative cost than would otherwise be the
case.
2.07         A study on forest revenue collection in Tanzania undertaken during project
preparation shows that the system generates fewer forest revenues than it should.2' In
1988/89 (the last year for which any complete figures are available), the actual amount of
revenues collected from reserves, public lands, and plantations was about Tsh 172 million
(USD1.5 million). Of this, only an estimated Tsh 43 million (USD360,000) came from
reserves and public lands. According to the TFAP, the potential revenues from the Central
Government Reserves alone should have amounted to Tsh 595 million (USD5 million).
According to the revenue collection study, the potential revenues from forest reserves and
public lands are estimated to be about Tsh 215 million (USD1.8 million) (Annex 1, Table
2). Actual collection from reserves and public lands, therefore, was only 20% of the more
9/ Pornt Rovenuc Collection inm anria. May 1991.



- 15 -
conservative estimate of potential revenues. That potential is estimated using the 1988/89
rates, which were, in real terms, only about 20% of the 1981 rates.M'
2.08            F.e levels for natural forest products were allowed to fall to extremely low
levels during the 1980s after an increase in 1981 that had set fees at a level close to their
economic value (as estimated by the re.idual calculation method).V In 1989, royalty
charges for charcoal and stacked fuelwood were less than 25% of their 1981 value in real
terms. In 1990, the fee levels were officially raised by an average of over 500%, recovering
to the 1981 real levels for many products; fees for charcoal, for example, were increased
from Tsh 10 to Tsh 50 per bag (28kg), surpassing their 1981 real value. It has been observed
in the field, however, that the 1990 fees have not been introduced. In September 1991, FBD
issued a circular requiring enforcement of the higher fees approved in 1990.
2.09            The revenue collection system also has had difficulty in limiting
overharvesting, promoting better wood utilization, and encouraging people to grow trees on
their own land. Excess harvesting continues because of loose enforcement of royalty fees.
Incentives are not provided to discourage the use of high-value timber for low-value activities
(i.e., if wood is being cut illegally, it is unlikely that appropriate timber stands are being
harvested either at appropriate locations or by appropriate techniques). Finally, because trees
continue to be obtained cheaply, there is little incentive to plant one's own trees for
commercial purposes.
2.10            There are several reasons for the present unsatisfactory performance of the
revenue collection system. The first is a lack of clarity over institutional responsibilities.
While FBD is responsible for reporting the collection of revenues from forest products, the
district and regional foresters are not accountable to FBD but to the district and regional
governments, respectively, and the district reports to regions and the regional reports to FBD
are at best incomplete. As a result, the financial reporting system is almost non-existent.
Second, financial control is lacking; the licensing systems are cumbersome and invite both
licensee and administrator to abuse the system and evade proper payment and, as there is no
double-checking of the activities of licensees built into the system, the risk of being caught is
negligible. Third, multiple fees that could be consolidated into one are often levied by
regional, district and village authorities on a single product at high administrative costs.
Fourth, in many districts there is a serious lack of competence in financial administration and
control compounded by lack of transport for revenue collection activities. And finally, the
prevailing low salaries have led to loss of morale and, in some instances, corruption.
2.11            A generally accepted and enforceable policy framework establishing who is
responsible for managing the forest resources on Tanzania's public lands, and who is entitled
101 The average exchange rate in fiucal year 1988/89 was USSI = 119 Tah.
11/ Three nrthods are usually utilized to estimate the economic value of fuelwood and charcoal (which are non-
tradeable in Tanzania): (i) the price needed to make a reforestation program fuancially profitable in plantations; (ii)
the economic cost of close substittes; and (iii) the estimation of the implicit rent based on a residual calculation tht
deducts harvest and transport costs plus normal profit margins from existing market prices. All of these mthods
have drawbacks and advantages, and sometimes offer different results. In the case of Tanzania, the fiurt two ethodJs
esmate fee levels that, if put in place, would price chamoal and fuelwood beyond the reach of most people; fees
wotld have to increas 14 tims from their 1990 levels, and the full amount of most Tanzanian salaries would be
insufficient to pay for household energy needs. The residual calculation method is most commonly used in Bank-
supported projects. The new official fees are roughly at the levels calculatd by this method.



- 16 -
to revenues therefrom, is lacking. This problem is most clearly highlighted by the widespread
flouting within many districts of the provisions of the present Forest Ordinance, and by the
absence of challenges to this practice. Perhaps even more important is the fact that the limits
between the property rights of Government (who owns all the land) and those of traditional
users with traditional customary rights remain undefined (paras 2.15-2.26).
2.12          To ensure that the new fees for forest products provide the necessary market
signals for effective forest management, it is necessary that Government: (i) put greater effort
into enforcing these fees; and (ii) annually adjust these fees to account for inflation. In
addition, for revenue collection to be effective in inhibiting illicit fellmigs, Govermnent will
need to address the issue of property rights. The prevention of illicit fellings on public lands
will only be effective when local communities are involved and this will only occur when they
are given a share of the royalties collected from these lands.
Afforestation and the Pricing of Seeig
2.13          In the 1980s, Government's forest policy shifted from promoting communal
village plantations to individual tree planting, with free seedlings provided by government
nurseries. Government is now implementing a new policy to promote a shift in seedling
production from centralized government nurseries to decentralized private nurseries. The
success of the new strategy depends on four developments. First, it depends on an effective
extension system at the village level. An initial attempt is being made to develop such a
system in several regions of the country, and a project is underway to develop materials and
training on a national scale (with support from SIDA). Second, it depends on a more efficient
collection of royalties for forest products. The higher rates recently imposed and the use of
more efficient collection mechanisms are likely to lead to higher prices for wood products,
creating incentives for planting trees. Third, it depends on the development of property
rights. Property rights over individually planted trees and communally owned village
woodlands are expected to be strengthened by village demarcation and (in the longer term) by
the implementation o, the new policies to be developed under the proposed Project.
Strengthened property rights are likely to provide incentives for tree planting and the
management of communal woodlands. Finally, it depends or the introduction of pricing for
government-produced seedlings. All attempts to develop decentralized private seedling
production will continue to be undermined if free seedlings produced by government nurseries
continue to be available. Free government seedlings mean groups and individuals have no
incentive to produce or sell their own seedlings. Free seedlings often receive marginal
treatment and, as a consequence, survival rates are extremely low (often under 10%). Even a
token charge confers value, ensures that the seedling is cared for, and r eans that farmers see
the trees as belonging to them. In addition, seedling charges help ensure that farmers receive
the species and quality of trees they want; nurseries become responsive to farmers' needs and
ultimately only produce what is demanded. The price of a seedling is a minor cost compared
to the effort involved in land preparation, planting, weeding, watering and protection. Where
there is a demand for seedlings, people will pay the small price involved; where there is no
demand for seedlings, free seedlings will make little difference. Moreover, government funds
are extremely limited. Charges for seedlings could at least cover the costs of production,
thereby releasing resources for other priority forestry activities. Under the new policy,
charges for seedlings will be introduced during a transitional phase, thereby allowing the
development of private nurseries which in time will allow Government to phase out of these
activities. Government has issued a circular to all district authorities instructing them to
charge for government-produced seedlings.



- 17 -
Manageet Of Miombo Woodlands
2.14         Little work has been done with regard to the intensive management of
miombo woodlands in Tanzania, or elsewhere. Management has consisted of reservation,
protection, and control of selective, low-intensity, timber harvesting. Slow growth rates and
low stocking of commercial timber species have not justified investment in more intensive
management. Results of attempts to increase woodland productivity by enrichment and
silvicultural treatments, in dry African woodland types in general, have been discouraging.
Greater potential has been found in plantation forestry on more productive sites near major
centers of consumption, and investments have been directed at such areas. In the Tabora
Region, there were plans for improved management of natural woodlands but in practice all
efforts were put into the creation of woodlots of fast-growing exotics. The management
traditionally practiced in Tanzania's miombo woodlands has declined in recent years as a
result of budgetary restrictions that have reduced management activities to minimal patrolling
and revenue collection. This decline has occurred at a time when the loss of woodlands to
agricultural expansion and woodfuel harvesting is increasing and there is growing appreciation
of their wood and non-wood value.
Cs. Lnd Issues
2.15         In Tanzania, where approximately half the land is under forest cover, the
management of lands and forests is intertwined. Forests, together with arable land, pasture,
browse, trees and water, are the natural resources on which most of the rural population bases
its livelihood. Access to these natural resources is governed by customary rules of the local
community, laws of the state, and wider political and economic forces that influence
legislation, administration, and customary tenure. Appropriate land policies need to be
defined and the implementation and monitoring of village dermiarcation and titling supported.
IAnd Polides
2.16         Incentives foi forest management and tree p; anting are often tied to complex
local tenure systems. Tree tenure may differ from land tenure. One person or group may
have rights to the land, while others have rights to the trees or to certain products from
certain trees at certain times. In some areas, tree clearing for cultivation may be the only
way to establish uncontested usufruct rights, while elsewhere tree planting may be regarded as
laying individual claim to land. An understanding of local tenure issues is critical to the
development of appropriate land policies.
2.17         Government interference with customary rights has fostered uncertainty and
disincentives for natural resource management by the users of natural resources. From the
perspective of the small-scale farmer or pastoralist, there can be considerable ambiguity as to
which rules govern access to natural resources, over what lands these rules apply, and how
differing interpretations and conflicts are to be resolved. A farmer whose customary right to
lop branches from a tree has been overridden by a village regulation may find outsiders
felling the tree for charcoal with impunity because the district forestry officials who have
issued them a permit do not recognize the village's jurisdiction. Alternatively, a farmer may
be fined for cultivating land or harvesting forest products on land that is his by virtue of his



- 18 -
membership in a kin group or a modern village but is considered to be public land or gazetted
forest by public officials. Men show little enthusiasm for planting gazetted species of trees
over which they will have no legal control, even on their own land. Women often show even
less enthusiasm for long-term investments in tree planting since they are generally outsiders
who have married into the village and who, in any case, have few land or tree rights under
customary and modem laws.
2.18          In the past, African customary tenure systems were seen as inherently
conservative, communal, and antithetical to investment and good natural resource
management. More recent studies have revised this view, based on evidence that indigenous
systems are flexible and dynamic and tend to evolve into more restricted or individualized
rules of access with increasing population pressure and commercialization of agriculture. In
recent decades, however, customary tenure in Tanzania has not been allowed to evolve. Both
the colonial and early post-independence governments attempted to prevent the evolution of
tenancy and land markets in cash cropping areas. In the mid-1970s, Government encouraged
people to leave their individual farms in favor of collective agriculture. Collective production
was later quietly abandoned, but the legal statue of customary tenure was further confused by
the 1975 Ujamaa Act and the 1982 Local Government Act which, inter alia, gave the village
council the right to allocate lands to households without extinguishing customary rights.
2.19          In recent years, the status and security of customary tenure have been further
undermined by state allocation of large tracts of land-up to 100,000 acres-to parastatals,
private companies and individuals for development under the 1923 Land Ordinance Cap. 113,
which is still the major land statute in Tanzania. The allocated land is formally categorized as
either public land or undemarcated land, but is land that has been utilized by villagers and
over which villagers have developed customary rights.
2.20          Since 1982, Tanzania's agricultural policy has begun to turn toward private
farming. This change has only begun to be reflected in land legislation, land policy, and the
attitudes of policymakers towards agricultural development. Land legislation remains
complex, ambiguous, and arbitrary, particularly with regard to the legal status of the
customary rights through which access to resources is obtained. The status, extent and
location of public lands is unclear. Officials in different ministries and departments disagree
on important issues such as the definition and proper disposition of public lands. Many still
prefer large-scale, mechanized agriculture and have retained their faith in top-down land use
planning, the command-and-control approach to natural forest management, and one-way
commnunication with farmers in extension. The strengths of rural people's diverse farming
systems and natural resource management regimes and the potential for developing
smallholder agriculture are generally not recognized.
2.21          In terms of laws, regulations and administrative practices of different
ministries, and the implementation of specific programs, no coherent policy or set of
incentives for good forest and land management is evident and contradictions abound. The
village demarcation process in which Govermnent is now engaged (paras 2.22-2.26) reveals
many of these contradictions as well as the competition and conflict over access to resources
by diverse interests both inside and outside of government. Developing and implementing a
land policy is as difficult as it is important. If it is to be effective policy, rather than merely
rhetoric designed to please donors, it must be grounded on an accurate understanding of the
ways in which various groups gain access to and use natural resources. It must also be
informed by lessons that have been learned in other countries in Africa that are grappling with



- 19 -
similar land policy issues. Above all, it must be developed through an ongoing process of
dialogue and negotiation between policymakers and interested groups. The Project will
contribute to this process and ensure that lessons from other countries are taken into account
(paras 3.22-3.28).
Village Demarcation, iltling and Registration
2.22         In 1983, Government undertook a program to establish a two-tier system of
land leases for village land. Under this system, land, all of which formally still belongs to
Government, is to be leased on a long-term basis to villages which, in turn, lease it to
individual users for periods not to exceed the village lease. As a first step towards
implementing this program, Government in 1987 initiated a program to demarcate, survey,
title and register all villages by 1992.
2.23         According to a 1991 study by GoveiT.mlent, only 1,836 of the 8,637 villages
in the country were demarcated and surveyed; only 1,303 were issued Certificates of
Occupancy, and of these fewer than 200 were registered. The pace of village demarcation,
titling and registration has been slowed by insufficient funding and inefficient use of funds,
technical and organizational problems, lengthy procedures for boundary dispute resolution,
lack of a standard for survey and demarcation procedures, inefficient procedures for the
processing of the title documents, lack of public information on the program and, in some
instances, conflicting interpretations of where village boundaries should be located.
2.24         Village demarcation has also been slowed by the resistance of some
government officials who would like to gazette more public land for direct government
control and would like Government to retain control over the management of village land.
The debate over the use of public lands is being settled in practice by the demarcation process
which is formally including public lands within the boundaries of the villages. While there
remains ambiguity in the legislation concerning Government's ability to interfere with the
management of village land, Government has stated that it will support the development of a
new policy and legislation that provide greater security for communal and individual rights.
2.25         Evidence from Tanzania and elsewhere in Africa clearly shows that devolving
greater control over land and other renewable natural resources to the village level can have a
positive impact on the environment, equity and development. A large fraction of Tanzania's
29 million ha of public land is used by local people and urban-based commercial interests on
an open-access basis. Government does not have, and will not have in the foreseeable future,
the capacity or the incentives for effective management (para 1.19). Village demarcation and
titling places this land clearly under village government jurisdiction and allows the village and
its individual households or user groups such as charcoal makers, beekeepers, and herdsmen,
to be given the right and responsibility to manage profitably the resources on which their
livelihood depends. As the local unit of governance, villages have the right to issue
regulations concerning land and tree use. Villages in many districts, including Babati and
Hanang in Arusha and Meatu in Shinyanga, have already done so, often, as in the Hifadhi
Ardhi Shinyanga Programme (HASHI), building on existing customary rules. Villages can
also negotiate contracts with other villages or user groups concerning shared use of common
resources and the seasonable use of pasture and browse by pastoral people. Villagers in
Tabora, for example, have made contracts for controlled access to wood with charcoal
manufacturers.



- 20 -
2.26          The devolution of control over public lands used by villagers to village
goversnent may also enable regionally diverse customary property regimes to evolve towards
a national norm at their own pace in response to local conditions and needs. In the densely
settled, high-potential area of Kilimanjaro, for example, surveying and registering individual
land titles may be needed. In scarcely settled areas of Rukwa or Iringa, ways may be needed
to reconcile the rights of indigenous groups with those of incoming settlers. In parts of
Arusha, the critical need may be to give greater recog. tion to pastoralists' rotational grazing
systetns and to develop mechanisms for harmonizing them with the interests of cultivators
who compete for control over dry season pasture and water points.



- 21 -
m. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Objectives
Rationale
3.01         Tanzania's forests are vital to the country's economic development. Their
exploitation generates substantial foreign exchange earnings and jobs in the logging and timber
processing industry. Besides meeting the country's needs for fuelwood and construction
timber, forests have contributed to soil fertility and provided non-wood forest products of
nutritional and medicinal importance for rural communities. The accelerating disappearance
of forests in parts of the country poses a threat not only to the future production of timber,
but also to irreplaceable ecosystems-many of which are critical to the country's agricultural
sector. Both the Tanzania TFAP and the World Bank's Forest Policy have built on lessons
learned and have shown the need for a broad approach to forestry that addresses policy and
institutional issues and provides incentives for the participation of the private sector and local
populations in the management of forest resources. In Tanzania and in other Sub-Saharan
African countries, IDA has acquired considerable experience in the forestry subsector. IDA's
involvement will ensure institution building, including technical assistance and training to
strengthen technical management and Government's capacity in policy planning and program
development. IDA's involvement in the implementation of the Project will be aimed at
structural change in the subsector, consistent with agricultural sector strategies agreed between
Government and IDA. In Tanzania, IDA has been a major actor in assisting Government to
reshape the agriculture sector through the Tanzania Agricultural Adjustment Program
(TANAA). IDA has also provided leadership in developing with Government integrated
sector strategies, such as the integrated roads strategy in Tanzania's transport sector. Other
donors are relying on this IDA initiative for the success of their own future assistance to
activities in the subsector.
Objectives
3.02         The broad objective of the proposed Project is to support the implementation
of TFAP by strengthening the capacity of the institutions in charge of developing and
implementing forest and land policies and by increasing the participation of the private sector
and local populations in the management of natural resources in Tanzania. The Project has
three specific objectives:
(a)    To strengthen institutions in charge of the development of forest policies and
forest and natural resources information;
(b)    To support the development of rural land policies, strengthen crucial
governmental and nongovernmental organizations in charge of the
implementation of these policies, and support the implementation and
monitoring of Government's policy of village demarcation and titling; and
(c)    To strengthen regional and district forestry institutions in the Mwanza and
Tabora Regions.



- 22 -
B. Project Summary Description
3.03         The Project's three components are outlined below. Detailed descriptions of
each component are provided in the following sections; additional information is provided in
the relevant annexes. Each component is designed to fulfill one of the specific objectives
listed above and is largely the responsibility of a single government agency.
(a)    Strengthening Natural Resources Monitoring and Forest Policies. To be
implemented mainly by FBD, this component is intended to strengthen the central
forestry service through: (i) production of national land use and natural resource
maps; (ii) development of a Natural Resource Information Center; (iii) improvement
and monitoring of the royalty collection system; (iv) identification of best practices for
forest activities; (v) preparation of an action plan for the long-term financing of the
forestry subsector; and (vi) improvement of accommodations for FBD's main offices.
(b)    Strengthening Land Policies and Institutions. To be implemented by
MLHUD, this component will support: (i) the development of land policies and (ii)
village demarcation, titling, and registration.
(c)    Strengthening Regional and District Forest Services in Mwanza and Tabora
Regions. This component will be implemented by the regional and district forest
services of Mwanza and Tabora. In Mwanza, where most of the forest cover has
been lost, the main activities to be supported will be: (i) surveys and planning of the
extension program; (ii) district forest service reorganization and training; (iii)
development and distribution of extension materials; (iv) community and farm forestry
extension; (v) local research and development; (vi) revenue collection and sharing;
and (vii) village woodland and forest reserve management. Strong collaboration will
be established with CARITAS and other established nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs) to expand their successful afforestation approach to other areas of the region.
In all activities, emphasis will be placed on enhancing two-way communication
between villagers and foresters. In Tabgra, where most of the land is wooded, the
component will be implemented in two phases. A one-year preparatory phase (Phase
I) will include: (i) vegetation mapping; (ii) reconnaissance surveys/inventories; and
(iii) regional forest resource planning. Phase II will last five years and, subject to the
findings of Phase I, will include the following activities: (i) forest reserve
management; (ii) village woodland management; (iii) applied research; (iv) community
and farm forestry extension; (v) revenue collecting and sharing; and (vi) training.
3.04         The activities planned under the three components will be strongly linked. The
improvements in the royalty collection system to be designed under component 1 will be
tested under component 3 in Mwanza and Tabora, and the results from this pilot will be used
to refine forest policy. Thc identification of best practices in forestry, to be carried out under
component 1, will be used to plan activities in Mwanza and Tabora. The national mapping
will include Mwanza and Tabora and will supplement other data used to plan and monitor the
activities in those regions; the more detailed information that will be collected in the regions,
including the reconnaissance surveys in Tabora, will provide information of national utility
and will be incorporated in the Natural Resource Information Center database developed
under component 1. The pilot on forest management in Tabora will help develop national



- 23 -
policies for forest management. Village demarcation, to be carried out under component 2,
will form an integral part of the implementation of forest policy, as it will bring large tracts
of public lands directly under the management of villages, and will open the possibility of
direct involvement of villages in the collection of forest royalties. In Mwanza and Tabora,
village demarcation activities will be complemented with forestry extension to help establish
management practices for village woodlands. The land policy study, to be carried out under
component 2, will include a review of forest law and tree tenure and will feed into the
development of forest policy.
C. Detailed Project Features
Strengthening Natural Resources Monitorin! and Forest Policies (USD5.0 million)
3.05          National Reconnaissange-Level Land Use and Natural Resources MaRRing.
This activity will: (i) provide countrywide, baseline forest resource information with regard to
forest area and forest types; (ii) provide baseline information about other land uses,
particularly agriculture; (iii) facilitate an assessment of natural resource and land use changes
over time and relate these changes to possible causes; and (iv) develop the framework for
regular national forest resource monitoring.
3.06          The assessment and mapping will be based on recent satellite imagery. Maps
will be produced at a scale of 1:250,000 showing general classes of forest cover, agriculture,
grazing, and settlement areas. The maps will identify forests according to type and density
(i.e., high, mangrove, woodland, and plantation forests and high, medium and low density
crown cover) and will also represent forested areas according to their legal status, including
forest reserves, national parks, game reserves, conservation areas, and public forest lands.
ITe maps will be produced with the thematic data printed on an image background, and will
coincide with the existing 1:250,000 series topographic maps. There are 64 map sheets in
this series. Nearly one quarter of these sheets, however, are less than full with areas over
water and neighboring country land masses. Each map sheet will be produced in quantities of
500 to ensure sufficient supply for decisionmakers and planners in government and
development agencies.
3.07         The information derived from this activity will be essential in developing
national and regional forest management strategies. It will help establish priority areas for
conservation, and help identify those existing reserve areas where resurveying and regazetting
are required because of past encroachment. It will provide the basis for more detailed survey
and inventory work in priority areas. The mapping will take into consideration and benefit
from the forest assessment guidelines to be developed with existing SIDA support to FBD
(Annex 2, Table 3).
3.08          The Project will support the acquisition, analysis, and field verification of land
use and resource data together with the map production activities, all of which will be done
with the technical assistance of local and international consultants over a period of two years.
The work will be carried out by the Institute for Resource Assessment (IRA) in collaboration
12/ All financial amounts in this section include contingencies.



- 24 -
with an international consulting firm, and directed by a National Committee for Natural
Resources Information involving representatives from FBD, the National Environmental
Management Council (NEMC), MALD, MLHUD, IRA and the Ministry of Water. At
negotiations, Government gave assurances that by November 30, 1992, it will commence
natural resource mapping activities and not later than November 30, 1994, furnish to the
Association for its review complete maps and related area statistics.
3.09         Natural Resource Information Center. The Project will support the
development of a Natural Resource Information Center to establish an information base on
resources, land use, and enviromnental conditions in the country to assist with development
planning, resource management, and environmental monitoring. The center will be located
within IRA (see Annex 5, Appendix 7). The establishment of the center requires technical
assistance, equipment, and materials to strengthen IRA's capacity to collect and analyze data
and disseminate information to decisionmakers and planners.
3.10         The Project will provide 12 months of consultant assistance to develop the
Natural Resource Information Center in IRA and to develop mechanisms of coordination for
the various data development activities along the guidelines suggested by the World Bank's
Program for Environmental Information Systems in Africa. The Project will provide
microcomputers for geographic information system (GIS) and image processing activities, as
well as photocopy facilities. It will also provide support for acquiring satellite imagery,
ground surveys, and existing maps for the purpose of assessing and monitoring environmental
and resource conditions. To strengthen the analytical capacity of IRA, short-term training
fellowships in GIS applications for resource analysis will be provided.
3.11         Imorovement and Monitorinf of Royalty Collection Systems. The four
activities to be carried out under this subcomponent are designed to give Government more
cost-effective options for the collection of royalties. Royalty fees have been raised recently
(para 2.08). At negotiations, Government gave assurances that it will annually review
royalty fees and by July 1 of each year, adjust them by at least the rate of inflation for
the previous year, to ensure that their real values do not decline and that the fee
structure reflects the relative scarcity of the resource.
JJ.12        Development of a forest revenue reporting system: At present, no reliable
data are available on the total amount of revenue collected from forest products by the
Government at the central, local and village levels; neither are there data available showing
forest revenue disaggregated by type of product, type of forest, or region. A database will be
set up to analyze how much forest revenue is being collected, on what products and in which
locations. Based on the experience gained in creating this database, a simple, cest-effective
new system of revenue reporting will be designed. At negotiations, Government gave
assurances that it will by March 31, 1993: (a) furnish to the Association
recommendations for the establishment of the forest revenue reporting system, for its
review and comments; and (b) immediately thereafter commence implementation of this
systen, taking the Association's comments into account.
3.13         Pilot implementation of a revised forest revenue collection system: The
objective of this activity will be to pilot test some of the changes recommended by the forest
revenue collection system (Annex 5, Appendix 4) in the Mwanza and Tabora Regions and in
two other regions to be identified during the development of the forest revenue reporting
system. The pilot phase will span years 1-3 of the Project. At negotiations, Government



- 25 -
gave assurances that by the end of the third year of project implementation, it will
evaluate the pilot implementation of the revised revenue collection system and make
recommendations to the Association for expansion of the new system to all regions.
3.14         Feasibility assessment for the collection of fees from fuelwood used for
tobacco curing: This activity will examine the need for and feasibility of making effective
the charging of woodfuel fees (as required by law) for tobacco production. This countrywide
activity will require obtaining precise estimates of the amounts of fuelwood used, estimating
the social benefits and costs of tobacco production, and recommending cost-effective
mechanisms for charging the fee. This activity will be complemented by an associated
activity in the Tabora Region (para 3.50). At negotiations, Government gave assurances
that by the end of the third year of project implementation, it will make
recommendations to the Associatijn as to the need for and feasibility of making effective
the charging of woodfuel fees for tobacco production and introduction of other measures
to compensate for the effect of tobacco production on forest resources.
3.15         Mid-Term Evaluation: The objectives of this activity are to: (i) evaluate the
success of the new revenue reporting system in enabling Government to more effectively
monitor forest revenue collections; (ii) evaluate the success of the revisions made to the forest
revenue collection systems in the pilot regions in controlling the harvest of natural forests and
raising additional revenue; and (iii) expand the new system, modified as necessary, to all
regions.
3.16         Project contributions to this activity will consist of technical assistance (18
person-months of international consultants, 20 person-months of local consultants) and a
vehicle for FBD revenue collection activities. A long-term contract with a research institution
or a consulting firm to provide the international technical assistance is foreseen to ensure that
continuity and the necessary links among the revenue collection activities are maintained.
(See Annex 5 for background and terms of reference.)
3.17         Identification of Best Practices for Forest Activities. An analysis of
different approaches used in the execution of relevant forestry projects being implemented by
different donors and NGOs as well as by Government will be undertaken. This analysis will
be used to identify: (i) village afforestation approaches that enable equitable distribution of
benefits, and effectiveness and efficiency in delivery; (ii) the extent of donor support currently
available for community-based natural forest and woodland management; (iii) the best
approaches for natural forest reserve management; and (iv) the impact that the projects are
having on strengthening the regional and district forestry services. This analysis will be
undertaken by a group of Tanzanian experts (12 person-months), supported by short-term
expatriate consultants (4 person-months). (See Annex 5 for terms of reference.) At
negotiations, Government gave assurances that by May 31, 1993, it will initiate its
activities for the identification of best prsctices in forestry and by May 31, 1994, will
furnish to the Association for its review a report of its findings.
3.18         Long-Term Financing of Forestry. The medium-term recurrent cost
implications of the existing and planned investment activities in forestry will be established
and specific mechanisms to ensure their long-term financial sustainability will be developed.
The projected needs for recurrent expenditures in 1991, 1995 and 2000 will be estimated.
Alternatives for financing recurrent expenditures will be examined and recommendations
made. One option is for the central government to provide districts with support for recurrent



- 26 -
expenditures in forestry as it does in the health, education, roads, and water sectors. At
negotiations, Government gave assurances that by May 31, 1994, Government will
complete an assessment of the long-term financing needs of the forestry subsector, and
thereafter ensure that adequate provision is made in its budgets for the financing of
forestry subsector activities.
3.19         This activity will be carried out by a local consultant (6 person-months), an
international consultant (3 person-months), and an official from the planning unit of FBD
working under the supervision of the Director of FBD (see Annex 5 for terms of reference).
3.20         Improvement of Infrastructure. The current problem of limited office space
at FBD in Dar es Salaam will be resolved under the Project by constructing and rehabilitating
offices on the government site in Dar es Salaam known as the Ivory Room. An initial design
for the structures was developed during project preparation.
3.21         Project Coordination. A local project coordinator will be hired under the
Project to coordinate component 1 and direct the deputy coordinators of components 2 and 3
(Annex 4, Appendix 1). MTNRE has appointed a full-time project coordinator. Transport,
basic office equipment and office support will be provided. The services of a procurement
specialist and a financial controller will be also included.
Strengthening Land Policy and Institutions (USD6.8 million)
3.22         Land Policy Development. This subcomponent will support the development
of rural land policies to support the devolution of control over land to the village level.
Technical assistance will be provided for a study in two phases of the most pressing issues in
land policy. Phase I of the study wvill address: (i) land law, administrative process and access
to natural resources; (ii) bottom-up land use planning; (iii) pastoral land use and common
property regimes; (iv) forest law and tree management; and (v) the development of land
markets and individual land titling. The issues to be addressed in Phase II will be identified
in Phase I. The study and its follow-up will require an input of 34 person-months of
international consultants and 74 person-months of local consultants. (See Annex 6 for terms
of reference). A long-term relationhip will be established between a local research institution
and an international institution specializing in land policy. These two institutions will form a
technical secretariat that will support government institutions in charge of land policy
development. The role of the technical secretariat will be fourfold: (i) to provide experts in
land tenure and research methods and the experience of other African countries in land policy
development, by filling a post with a specialist who will visit Tanzania for short periods 2-3
times a year, and by identifying short-term expatriate consultants; (ii) to facilitate exposure of
the local research staff and professionals to land tenure issues through on-the-job instruction,
short-term training, and workshops and seminars; (iii) to stimulate and facilitate a continuing
policy dialogue on land issues; and (iv) to provide external monitoring of the village
demarcation and titling program and channel feedback from beneficiary villagers to
decisionmakers in Dar es Salaam. At negotiations, Government gave assurances that by
October 31, 1992, it will initiate its study on land policy and by March 31, 1995, furnish
to the Association for its review and comments the results of this study.



- 27 -
3.23         Village Demarcation, Titling, and Registration. The Project will support
MLHUD in the surveying, demarcating, and titling of village lands. This support will focus
on the survey and demarcation work to be coordinated by SMD and on the titling and
registration procedures of the Land Development Services Division.
3.24         The Project will support survey and demarcation activities in tive regions
(Mwanza, Tabora, Shinyanga, Morogoro, and Dodoma) during an initial pilot phase, to
enable the testing of technical procedures and to evaluate the effect of village demarcation and
titling on the management of forest resources and on the socioeconomic activities of the
villagers. Shinyanga, Dodoma, and Mwanza have been selected in an attempt to control land
degradation associated with high levels of stocking in unmanaged public lands, and both the
Morogoro and Tabora Regions have a high rate of population increase due to immigration of
pastoralists from Arusha, Shinyanga, and Mwanza. At negotiations, Government gave
assurances that by the end of the first year of project implementation it will complete the
demarcation of about 165 villages, by the end of the second year at least 250 additional
villages and by the end of the third year at least 250 more villages. Targets for the
following three years will be reviewed and agreed upon during the mid-term review.
After the mid-term review, assuming the pilot activities are successful, the program will be
expanded to include 10 additional priority regions, to be identified by Government.
3.25         Modern survey equipment, including Global Positioning System (GPS)
equipment, will be provided to enable easier and more rapid survey techniques. SMD will
also be provided with cartographic equipment and supplies, office equipment, and additional
office space to support the village demarcation program and to strengthen the capacity of the
division. The Project will also provide support to train surveyors on the use of GPS
equipment and computer technologies, and will provide support for activities to educate
regional, district, and village officials about the demarcation and titling program. Resources
will also be provided for constructing markers to delimit village boundaries. In the pilot
phase, the Project will provide 13 four-wheel-drive vehicles to be used by surveyors at the
central and regional levels to organize, coordinate, and execute the demarcation and surveying
of the villages. Forty-four bicycles will be provided to transport district surveyors around the
villages. In the second phase, 20 four-wheel-drive vehicles and 120 bicycles will be provided
to support the work in the ten additional regions. As the program expands to include the
additional regions, the requisite additional survey equipment, supplies, materials, and training
will be provided.
3.26         The Land Development Services Department will be supported to facilitate the
issuing of titles and registering deeds to land. This is a crucial step in the overall village
demarcation program as it provides the legal basis for villages to have jurisdiction over their
lands and resources. The Certificates of Occupancy are prepared by the Commissioner of
Lands office in Dar es Salaam, and the registration and recording of titles is done in the five
zonal offices (Dodoma, Mwanza, Mbeya, Moshi and Dar es Salaam). Targets for the titling
of villages will be based on progress achieved in the definition of new policies by the time of
the mid-term review.
3.27         The Project wIll provide equipment, supplies, and materials for the
processing, archiving, and storage of land titles. This will include microfilming and filing
capabilities for division headquarters and for each of the zonal offices. Microcomputers for
word processing and database management will be provided to division headquarters to



- 28-
expedite the generation and processing of the Certificates of Occupancy for the villages.
Technical assistance will be provided oni recordi keepitig and land administration procedures to
the Land Development Services Division to improve its current practices of creating and
handling documents, sharing information amonig units in the division, and ensuring security
and protection of legal deeds. Senior staff in the division will visit neighboring countries
(e.g., Kenya, Malawi, and Zimbabwe) to examiine their land registration systems and to learn
from their experiences.
3.28          Component Coordinatio.n. A local deputy project coordinator will be hired
under the Project to provide coordination for the component. Transport, basic office
equipment and office support will be provided. (See Annex 4, Appendix 2 for terms of
reference.)
Strengthening Regional and District Forest Services in Mwanza and Tabora (USD9.2
million)
3.29          This component is designed to contribute to the wider objectives of the Project
through the implementation of several inter-related activities. These activities will help: (i)
strengthen regional and district forest planning and implementation capabilities; (ii) improve
the operational effectiveness, management and outreach of the regional and district forest
services; (iii) expand the use of proven improved forestry extension approaches for tree
planting and village woodland management; (iv) develop and implement new approaches for
the management of miombo woodlands; and (v) improve the forest-related skills and
capabilities of rural people.
3.30          The component will be implemented in two regions: Mwanza and Tabora.
There will be joint training of staff and common approaches to the monitoring and evaluation
of activities.
3.31          Mwanza Region. As the vegetation cover in Mwanza is limited, the Mwanza
subcomponent will concentrate on forestry extension, and will also promote the conservation
and management of woodlands in semi-arid areas. Extension programs covering these and
other supporting activities will be implemented for a range of agroecological and
socioeconomic conditions while simultaneously strengthening the capacity of the regional and
district forestry services to plan and implement forestry activities. Implementation of the
activities will start in the second year in Mwanza, Sengerema, and Kwimba.'3 It is
expected that coverage will expand as the capacity of the forest services for wider application
is developed. As described below, implementation of the subcomponent will involve: surveys
and planning of extension activities; district forest service reorganization; forestry extension
and management training; extension materials; community and farm forestry extension;
revenue collection and sharing; local research and development; and village woodland and
forest reserve management.
3.32          Planning Forestry Activities in the Region: A forestry work plan is
required to guide implementation of all forestry activities in Mwanza Region. To design this
plan for the three districts in which the forestry activities will be initially carried out,
13/ Thea didricts are subject to change following the findings of the planning stage in the initial year.



29
reconnaissance surveys and rapid rural assessment of selected divisions of all districts w'
will be conducted. These will provide for: (a) an assessmenit of existing resource-use
management strategies adopted in the areas identifying specific needs and resource utilization
of different groups, including explicitly the poorer households and women; (b) classification
and detailing of natural resource tenurL issues relevant to households, farms, schools and
groups; and (c) an assessment of the local knowledge, skills and expertise which could be
incorporated into a two-way extension process, These activities will lead to the preparation of
a forestry work plan that would include the identification of priority groups and individuals at
the village and household levels, preparation of an extension work program, and preparation
of annual regional and district forestry work plans, The work plan would cover: District
forest service reorganization and training; extension materials; community and farm foreotry
extension; local research and development; revenue collection and sharing; and village
woodland and forest reserve management (paras 3.33-3.38). At negotiations, Government
gave assurances that by March 31, 1993, it will furnish to the Association a forestry
work plan for Mwanza satisfactory to the Association.
3.33          District Forest Service Reorganization and Training: Under the proposed
Project, the district forest services will be reorganized and foresters will be trained. A district
forest service management team will be formed, comprised of divisional assistant foresters
and village leaders who will assist the District Forest Officer in planning and programming
forestry activities. Staff will be selected within the three districts to assume responsibility for
forestry extension activities exclusively. Those individuals engaged in extension will be
released from duties such as regulatory activities and revenue collection which could be
perceived negatively by farmers. At district and divisional levels, the opportunities and/or
need for the movement of motivated, experienced and proven extension personnel into
specialized jobs will be given careful consideration. Special attention will be given to the
promotion of women to these positions. Two forestry extension assistants (FEAs) will assist
the divisional assistant forest officer in extension-related functions. Forestry extension
activities will be concentrated on the divisional and household levels. The local organization
of the extension system includes the village extension agents (VEAs), who are drawn from the
immediate area of the extension activities. Even though there is general familiarity with
community and farm forestry among foresters in Tanzania, the courses currently provided are
not yet geared to frequent in-service training of field staff involved in extension work.
Comprehensive training in extension organization and practice is essential for the success of
project activities and will promote a sustainable strengthening of the forest service. Funds
will be allocated for the development of ,n on-the-job training program for staff at all levels.
This training will relate directly to the extension and/or management activities of the staff.
Provisions will be made for conducting seminars and study tours in-country and overseas.
3.34          Extension Materials: A range of extension materials, falling into three
categories, will be produced in support of training and collaborative extension programs. The
first category includes "one-off" items such as manuals, handbooks and posters which
comprehensively cover relevant subject matter areas. In Years 1 and 2, production of this
type of material will be done in collaboration with other organizations that have the necessary
expertise. The second category of extension materials includes low-cost and easily updated
literature including: (a) a series of operational notes for use in the review/training workshops
at the district and divisional levels; (b) a series of teaching notes for use in the school
14/ Districts in Tanzania are subdivided into divisions.



- 30 -
extension program; and (c) items of literature for use in connection with training inputs for
the agricultural extension service and the Mwanza Women's Training Centre. Finally,
existing mass media channels will be utilized, such as the Lake Zone edition of the Adult
Education monthly newspaper which regularly devotes a page to agricultural education topics.
3.35         Community and Farm Forestry Extension: Extension advice and support
will be directed at households, social groups and schools. Work will begin in those divisions
and villages of the three districts identified during the survey and planning phase. In
establishing a relationship with people in a particular community and identifying those
interested in forestry activities, extension staff will work through VEAs and groups of
motivated individuals, making an introduction through the village councils. Training will
focus on the practical issues of growing seedlings and the use of trees on farms: what species
to grow for different purposes in particular areas; where to obtain seed and how to treat it;
potting mixtures; choice of containers; watering, shading and protection; and planting
arrangements, particularly with respect to soil protection and enrichment. The Project will
arrange for individuals and groups to visit the nurseries, farms and tree planting sites of
individuals who have already adopted forestry activities. The same process of training sand
subsequent follow-up will take place in schools selected for nursery production and tree
planting. (he targets for this activity are described in Annex 8, Table 1.)
3.36         Local Research and Development: Local research and development
techniques will be initiated by extension personnel in home gardens, farms, schools and
community woodland sites. This activity will extend over the life of the subcomponent, and
its progress will be monitored by both participants and extension personnel. The activity will
involve a series of small-scale comparative tests such as the performance of local tree species
vs that of exotic species; spacing for species mixtures; and techniques in seedling production.
3.37         Revenue Collection and Sharing: The need to increase the revenue base of
the forestry service and the need to improve incentives for sustainable management of the
forest resource are closely linked. The Project, under Component 1, will support various
forest policy and royalty collection activities. Recommendations from these activities will be
translated into appropriate actions for the Mwanza Region. There they will be tested for
viability and effectiveness as well as replicability in the other regions of the country.
3.38         Village Woodland and Forest Reserve Management: These activities will
use the same approach as contained in the relevant sections of the Tabora subcomponent (para
3.45-3.47). The activity level is likely to be rather small, however, due to the limited
existence of forest resources. The Geita Forest Reserve deserves particular emphasis here
because of its relatively large forest area and its proximity to the urban population which
gives it long-term importance for the nearby urban market for woodfuel and timber supply.
During the first year of implementation, appropriate management actions for the Geita Forest
Reserve will be identified, taking into account the problems created by the encroachment of
gold miners in the forest. These actions will be incorporated into the project implementation
progra m.
3.39         A graduate Tanzanian forester will be seconded by FBD to work as a
Regional Forest Extension Officer in Mwanza. This secondment will be a condition of
effectiveness. He/she will be responsible for community and farm forestry within the region.
The only other incremental national staff required are drivers for the vehicles to be provided
under the Project. An expatriate Community Development Specialist will be appointed for an



- 31 -
initial period of three years. At the mid-term review it will be determined whether this
position will continue to be needed. If so, it will be assessed whether the necesssary skills
can best be provided with long-term or short-term technical asssistance. Government has
already identified a strong candidate for this position, with L-perience in directing a successful
NGO project in afforestation in the Mwanza Region. C(erms of reference are given in Annex
8, Appendix 2.) An expatriate volunteer Social Forester will be appointed for the first three
years of the Project to assist in the introduction of village woodland management. A locally
recruited Administrative Assistant will be employed to assist with the procurement of locally
produced equipment and services and the disbursement of funds. He/she will be appointed
for an initial period of three years, with extension for the final thi-e years, subject to the mid-
term review. Seven person-months of international and 20 person-months of local technical
assistance will be provided (Annex 8 describes the breakdown). The following vehicles will
be provided: four four-wheel-drive station wagons, nine four-wheel-drive pick-ups, 28
motorcycles and 80 bicycles. Civil works include the rehabilitation of those district forest
offices which are in a poor state of repair and a classroom at the Wildlife Training Centre in
Mwanza. Provision is made for the purchase of nursery materials, water supplies, extension
materials, demonstration areas, publicity, office equipment and supplies. Inputs will be
provided for in-country and overseas training.
3.40         Tabora Region. The Tabora subcomponent will be implemented in two
phases. The activities of Phase I will make full use of the data and findings of previous land
use planning projects implemented in the region, but will update information with
reconnaissance surveys of the current uses, trends and status of woodlands. The rapid
expansion of agricultural and livestock activities over the past decade, radical shifts in
settlement policy, and the decline in the operational capacity of district and regional natural
resources departments have resulted in significant, but largely uncontrolled and uiimonitored
changes in land use and woodland utilization. The type and scale of these changes need to be
flly understood before priorities can be determined, and before appropriate pilot miombo
management programs can be designed and implemented with confidence. Phase I will
comprise tnree activities: vegetation mapping; reconnaissance surveys; and a regional forest
resource plan.
3.41         Vegetation Mapping: Countrywide reconnaissance forest resource mapping
is planned under Component I of the Project. Output maps will provide baseline information
on the current status of the resources and will facilitate recognition of the changes that have
been taking place for some time. This information will provide a bas.s for developing
regional strategies for forest resource planning. As for formulation of specific actions, more
detailed vegetation maps of prinrity areas will be needed. The IRA has produced, under the
ESMAP biomass inventory program, detailed vegetation mapping of the main woodland areas
in Mwanza and a portion of those in Tabora by interpretation of SPOT satellite imagery. The
mapping which has been completed corresponds to the central and ncrthern parts of the region
but does not cover all of the reserves in that area. The IRA will be contracted to complete
mapping of priority areas in uncovered paits of the region.
3.42         Reconnaissance Surveys: Under this activity, various reconnaissance surveys
will be carried out to generate adequate data for regional forest resource planning:
(a)    Timber and woodfuel survey: The aim of this survey is to acquire an
overview of existing forest resources on all categories of woodland throughout
the region, together with an indication of circumstances which have



- 32 -
contributed to the present situation, and of trends which may affect future
supplies. This will involve a general assessment of the demand for specific
wood resources, the uses, how and where they are obtained, and the extent
and sustainability of available supplies.
(b)    Non-wood products: Aggregate data suggests that non-wood products-
notably beekeeping, wildlife and livestock grazing-may be at least as valuable
as timber and woodfuel production. One of the main aims of the
reconnaissance surveys will be to undertake a more detailed study of the
management and production of these non-wood products, including foodstuffs
and medicines intended primarily for household consumption and local market
sale. The surveys will be used to assess the supply and market status of these
products at the regional/district level and to identify geographical areas and
woodland "site-types" where supplies of these various products are especially
rich and/or where production and harvesting activities are concentrated.
(c)    Environment and wildlife: The reconnaissance survey will seek to identify
woodland areas that have particular ecological or environmental value and
which should be conserved or managed in a particular manner. Such value
may arise because of the nature of the vegetation itself and the need to
conserve genetic diversity, the wildlife it supports, or its watershed protection
function. The southern and western parts of the Tabora Region still contain
abundant wildlife, although illegal poaching over the last decade has
considerably reduced their numbers. Residual populations also exist in some
of the central reserves. Knowledge of the fauna, particularly smaller animals
and birds, is incomplete. It will also be important to ascertain current animal
distribution patterns, in order to identify migration corridors which are known
to be important in the south of the region, and to propose management
strategies for forest reserves which can support wildlife conservation.
(d)    Village woodland resource management: An investigation of the potential for
village woodland management, and the possible involvement of local people in
the management of priority forest reserves, will be carried out. This
investigation will identify in the region: (i) resource tenure conditions; (ii)
woodland use by local people; and (iii) user groups which may become
involved in the pilot management program.
3.43         Regional Forest Resource Plan: The main output of Phase I will be the
Regional Forest Resource Plan which will guide implementation of Phase II and will contain:
(a) a current assessment of the woodland resources, based on the surveys and inventories
described above; (b) a long-term strategic plan for the management of different reserves and
public woodlands; (c) identification and ranking of priority areas; and (d) management plans
for pilot woodland management programs to be implemented in Phase H. Additional output
will be an updated implementation program for Phase II and the required inputs for the annual
regional ad district forestry work plans. At negotiations, Government gave assurances
that by March 31, 1993, It will furnish to the Association a regional forest resource plan
for Tabora satisf&ctory to the Association.



- 33 -
3.44         Phase II will last five years and will include the following activities: forest
reserve management; village woodland management; applied research; community and farm
forestry extension; revenue collecting and sharing; and training.
3.45         Forest Reserve Management: Detailed management plans will be developed
and implemented in Phase II for priority reserves and representative villages. The type and
extent of activities that will be involved in preparation of these plans will be determined
during Phase I, but are expected to encompass reserve demarcation, forest inventory, timber
regulation, conmmunity participation, and pilot management studies. One readily quantifiable
benefit of such activities wIll be a reduction in the incidence of forest fi.es in the project area.
In view of the lack of absorptive capacity of the forestry service in Tabora and the pilot
nature of the management experience, it is foreseen that only 450,000 ha of forests will come
under improved management.
3.46         It is imperative that village communities and all user groups are consulted
about the plans for particular reserves, even where changes in use and access are not
perceived as being significant. Ways of giving local people a direct interest in the
conservation of forest reserves wiil need to be explored during the formulation of management
plans. Possibilities include giving priority to exploitation by local people rather than
outsiders, revenue sharing arrangements, and other ays of giving villages a direct role in the
regulation and management of neighboring reserves. The important point is that local people
must benefit directly, and that the means of involving them should be flexible and designed to
meet the particular circumstances prevailing in and around each reserve.
3.47         Village Woodland Management: New approaches for village woodland
management which give responsibility to village communities or user groups will be piloted.
The identification of best management practices to be carried out by the Project will provide
guidelines for this activity. The pilot programs will aim at providing technical support and
guidance to the villagers to enable them to identify and develop suitable woodland
management options. To satisfy the wider objectives of the Project, villages will be selected
first to represent a range of land use and locational conditions, and second, where conditions
appear conducive to woodland management. Factors to be considered include: (a) the
selection of villages which have been legally demarcated; (b) the existence of recent common
property resource management capabilities and decision-making structures that can be
strengthened to take on responsibility for regulation; (c) the existence of resource constraints
in the form of depletion of local woodlands, scarcity of highly valued products, or a conflict
over land use, each of which may precipitate more intensive management; (d) the existence of
clearly articulated rights of tenure which may form the basis for modified rules for
management of woodlands; and (e) the level of interest and participation of individuals and
political support from local government.
3.48         Applied Research: Presently little is known about the response of the
miombo woodlands to management. Pilot management studies are necessary to test and
demonstrate viable options. Furthermore, there is a need to gain a better understanding of
miombo woodland ecology and the likely long-term effects of human interventions, which
management trials alone will not provide. A series of studies is therefore proposed to test
various systems and related activities and involve ecological studies with particular emphasis
on plant/soil relationships and the regenerative capacity of woodlands. The miombo
woodland will be stratified on the basis of woodland and soil types using sources of



- 34 -
information already available and observations made during the reconnaissance survey.
Paired control and treatment plots will be established in each of the major strata and
additional plots will be located in areas once cleared of woodland and now regenerating.
Close collaboration will be required between the Project and the Miombo Woodland Research
Center of The Tanzania Forestry Research Institute (TAFORI) in establishing and monitoring
treatment plots.
3.49         Community and Farm Forestry Extension: Extension activities will consist
of training, conducting surveys, planning, producing extension materials, establishing
demonstration areas and initiating community and farm forestry extension. Extension
activities will begin in two divisions of Igunga and one division of Nzega Districts. The same
approach and form of organization as described for the Mwanza subcomponent (para 3.35)
will be employed for the implementation of these activities. Training of staff will take place
jointly with staff from Mwanza.
3.50         Revenue Collecting and Sharing: The need to increase the revenue base of
the forestry service and the need to improve the incentives for sustainable management of the
forest resource, are closely linked. The Project, under Component I, will support various
forest policy and royalty collection activities. Recommendations from these activities will be
translated into appropriate actions which will then be carried out to test their viability and
effectiveness as well as replicability in the other regions of the country. This activity will
also look at the need for and feasibility of making effective the charging of woodfuel fees (as
required by law) for tobacco production as a means to limit and control the environmental
damage caused by tobacco production.
3.51         Training: Training is seen as an essential element for successful
implementation. The subcomponent will provide extensive training along the same lines as
formulated for the Mwanza subcomponent (para 3.33).
3.52         A graduate Tanzanian forester will be seconded by FBD and appointed as
Regional Forest Extension Officer in Tabora to be responsible for the extension aspects
of woodland management, and for the community and farm forestry. This secondment
will be a condition of effectiveness. The only other incremental national staff required are
drivers for the vehicles to be provided under the Project. An expatriate Forest Management
Specialist and a Socioeconomist will be appointed for an initial period of three years (Terms
of reference are given in Annex 9). At the mid-term review it will be determined whether
these positions will continue to be needed. If so, it will be assessed whether the necesssary
skills can best be provided with long-term or short-term technical asssistance. An expatriate
volunteer Social Forester will be appointed for the first three years of Phase II to assist in the
introduction of village and reserve woodland management. A locally recruited Administrative
Assistant will be employed to assist with the procurement of equipment and services and the
disbursement of funds. He/she will be appointed for an initial period of three years, with
extension for the final three years subject to the mid-term review. Eleven person-months of
international technical assistance will also be required. The following vehicles wIll be
provided: 6 four-wheel-drive station wagons, 12 four-wheel-drive pick-ups, a tractor for
fireline maintenance, 4 trucks, 39 motorcycles and 45 bicycles. Civil works include the
rehabilitation of those district forest offices which are in a poor state of repair, and a
classroom and dormitory block at the Beekeeping Training Institute. This classroom will be
made available for the training of forestry staff. Provision is made for the purchase of
nursery materials, water supplies, extension materials, demonstration areas, office equipment



- 35 -
and supplies. Inputs will be provided for in-country and overseas training. The research
subcomponent will require 13 person-months of a senior expatriate scientist and the support of
a local research institution which will provide 12 person-months of research assistance.
Technical equipment and laboratory and fieldwork consumables will be provided. Houses
built under an ODA-financed project will be made available by Govermnent for the technical
experts.
D. Cost Estimates
3.53         Total cost of the Project, including physical and price contingencies, will be
USD20.9 million (rsh 6.1 billion), with a foreign exchange component of USD14.1 million,
or 68%. The Government will not levy duties and taxes on goods and services supplied to
government agencies and no tax element has been included in the project costs. Physical
contingencies have been included at 15% for construction, and 10% for vehicles and
equipment, their operating costs, and building maintenance costs. The cost estimates have
been based on October 1990 prices (the date of appraisal), adjusted for inflation up to the date
of negotiations. Price contingency calculations have been based on projected foreign inflation
rates of 4.9% for 1990-95 and 3.7% thereafter, and projected local rates of 23% for 1990,
20% for 1991, 17% for 1992, 13% for 1993, and 10% thereafter. The projected exchange
rate has been estimated by adjusting the exchange rate by the differential of domestic and
foreign inflation rates. A project cost summary is shown in Table 2 below. (Detailed cost
tables are given in Annex 12.)



- 36 -
Table 2: Tanzania
Forest Resources Manacement Project
Proiect Cost Summary
X         TOTAL
(USD'000)                 FOREIGN       BASE
LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL    EXCHANGE    COST
A. Resource Monitorinf/Forest Poliey
1. Land Use/Natural Resoure Mapping       276.5       1,268.4     1,544.9        82            9
2. Resource Infornation Center             28.1        595.3        623.4        95            3
3. Royalty Collection Activities          105.0        415.9        520.9        80            3
4. Forest activities: best practices       63.0         89.7        152.7        59            1
5. Long term forestry financing            31.5         60.4         91.9        66            1
6. Improvement of infratructure           622.8        366.3        989.1        37            6
7. Project coordination office            115.7        313.1       428.9         73            2
Sub-total resource monitoring/forest policy  1,242.7  3,109.2     4,351.9        71           24
B. Institutional strenathenine: land zolicy
1. Land policy department                 379.3       1,265.7     1,645.0        77            9
2. Village demarcation                  1,592.3       1,484.7     3,077.0        48           17
3. Village titling and registration       249.1        592.6        841.6        70            5
4. Deputy project coordination office     110.7        172.0        282.7        61            2
Sub-total inst. strengthening: land policy  2,331.4   3,515.0     5,846.4        60           33
C. Regional and district forest services
1. Mwanza regional forestry program       784.2       2,086.5     2,870.7        73           16
2. Tabora regional forestry program
Tabora forestry program         1,105.3       3,238.8     4,344.2        75           24
Tabora research program           262.3        30_.5        564.8        54            3
Sub-total Tabora regional forestry program  1,367.6   3,541.3     4,909.0        72           27
Sub-total regional & district forest services  2,151.8  5,627.8   7,779.6        72           43
Total base costs                        5,725.9      12,252.0    17,977.9        68          100
Physical contingencies            149.9        250.2        400.1        63            2
Price contingencies               912.0       1,644.6     2,556.6        64           14
Total project costs                     6,787.8      14,146.7    20,934.5        68          116
E. Financing
3.54           The project costs will be financed by a SDR 13.2 million (USD18.3 million) IDA
credit; and a grant totalling USDO.7 million from other co-financiers (NORAD is at an advanced
stage of preparation of its support for the Natural Resource Information Center and is likely to
finance its activities). The balance of USD1.9 million will be provided by Government (See Table 3
below.) ODA has agreed in principle, subject to the approval of its management, to finance, with
grants, the land use/natural resource mapping, royalty collection, best forestry practices, and long-
term forestry financing activities, with an estimated cost of USD2.5 million (of which USD2.0 million
are foreign and USD0.5 million are local costs). Government will conclude all dialogue and will seek
to reach firm agreement with ODA within six months of IDA's Board approval of the Credit. If such
agreement is reached IDA will consider, upon Government's request, cancelling part of the IDA
Credit corresponding to the respective subcomponents picked up by this donor and revising
disbursement percentages as required.



- 37 -
3.55         Total foreign assistance will cover 100% of foreign costs and 72% of local costs.
IDA will fund investment in natural resource monitoring, policy studies, and strengthening of the
Forestry, Survey and Mapping, and Land Development Services Departments and of the regional and
district forestry services in Mwanza and Tabora. Given the difficult fiscal situation of the
Government, the Project has been designed so that external funds will be made available to finance all
the capital costs (except for about 25% of the local costs in civil works) and a substantial portion of
the recurrent costs arising from the project investments during the implementation period. In total,
the Government will be assuming 9% of the incremental costs of the Project as a whole and 43% of
the incremental recurrent costs.
3.56         A Japanese Grant of 38.5 million yen (USD 285,000) for the preparation of this
Project was used to support several studies to help the Government develop forest and land policies
and organize associated workshops and seminars intended to foster a national debate on these policies.
A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of USD650,000 was also approved for project preparation
activities.
Table 3: Tanzania
Forest Resources Management Project
Financing Plan
(USD Million)
IDA          OTHER        GOVERNMENT            TOTAL
FINANCIERS
Foreign                 13.5           0.7              0.0               14.2
Local (Excl. Taxes)     4.8            0.0               1.9               6.7
TOTAL                   18.3           0.7               1.9              20.9
F. Procurement
3.57         Procurement arrangements for items financed by IDA are summarized in Table 4. All
items financed by IDA will be procu:ed according to IDA procedures as set out below. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that those procedures will be followed. It is expected that 89% of
goods and works financed by IDA will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
and 7% through local competitive bidding (LCB). Procurement by other methods, including training
and consultancies, will constitute 55% of total IDA financing. Procurement procedures for items to be
financed by NORAD will follow its guidelines. IDA-financed contracts for goods exceeding
USD100,000 equivalent in value, and USD250,000 in value for construction, and all contracts for
employment of consultants, will require IDA review of procurement documentation prior to bid
invitation and contract award. Other contracts will be subject to post-award reviews.
Civil Works
3.58         Construction to improve FBD accommodation estimated to cost about USD1.0 million
equivalent will be subject to international competitive bidding. Domestic civil works contractors
participating in the ICB procurement will qualify for a 7.5% preference in bid evaluation. The
rehabilitation of forest station housing in Mwanza and Tabora, estimated to cost USD0.07 million, is



- 38 -
not expected to attract interest from internatioi.al bidders and will be procured through LCB, under
procedure. satisfactory to IDA.
VehIlesf and Equipment
3.59          Procurement for equipment and vehicles will be grouped as much as possible.
Purchases over USD100,000 (for a total amount of about USD4.3 million) will be procured under
ICB. Qualifying domestic manufacturers will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties or import duties, whichever is lower.
Purchases under USD100,000 (including camping equipment and nursery supplies to be used over a
scattered area and for activities spread over time, and spares and specialized items for a total of about
USD0.34 million), will be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. To the extent
possible, goods and services will be grouped in homogeneous packages to reduce the number of
LCBs. Items costing less than USD 20,000 each and needed rapidly for project implementation up to
a maximum of USD0.28 million may be purchased by international or local shopping by securing at
least three price quotations.
Technical Assistance and Services
3.60          Technical assistance financed by IDA will be procured according to IDA guidelines,
with qualifications and contract terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Overseas and local training
arrangements will be subject to IDA approval. Technical assistance includes a turn-key contract for a
consulting firm which will be in charge of the land use/natural resource mapping activity, 129 person-
months of international short-term consultancies, 217 person-months of local short-term consultancies,
and 180 person-months of expatriate long-term consultancies.
Table 4: PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
(USD Millions)
Project Element           ICB         LCB       OTHER        N.A.         CO-          TOTAL
FINANCIER        COST
PROCEDURE
Civil Works                1.16       0.07                                               1.22
(0.94)    (0.07)                                              1.00)
Vehicles                   1.43       0.08        0.08                                   .S9
(1.43)    (0.08)      (0.08)                                 (1.59)
Equipment & Materials      2.97       0.26        0.20                    0.41           3.84
(2.97)    (0.26)      (0.20)                                  (3.43)
Technical Assistance                              8.25                    0.17           8.42
(8.25)                                (8.25)
Training & Workshops                              1.62                    0.12           1.75
(1.62)                                (1.62)
lIcromental Operating Costs                                  4.12         0.01           4.13
(2.44)                    (2.44)
TOTAL                      5.55       0.41       10.15       4.12         0.71          20.93
(5.33)    (0.41)      (10.15)     (2.44)                     (18.33)
Note: Numbers in parentheses represent IDA financing.



- 39 -
G. Disbursement
3.61            The proceeds of the USD18.3 million IDA Credit will be disbursed over six
years as follows:
MTNRE                         MLHUD                TOTAL
. ........   sd D'slirurme...nt    Ugb .   .oposed .        .t
Million        Percentage        Million    Disbursement      Million
Percentage
(a) Civil Works             0.8          100 of foreign,      -                 -          0.8
75 of local
(b) Vehicles, Equipment     2.5           100 of foreign     2.0     100 of foreign        4.5
90 oflocal                 90 of local
(c) Technical Assistance    5.2                   100        1.4             100           6.6
(d) Taining Studies         0.8                   100        0.4             100           1.2
(e) Operating Cust          1.3                   130        1.0             100           2.3
(f) Refunding of PPF                                                                       0.7
(83 unallocated                                                                            2.2
Total                                                                                     18.3
3.62            Operating costs means incremental project-related operating costs such as
office supplies, vehicle and computer equipment maintenance, project staff allowances for
field trips, salaries for the project coordination and additional administrative workers required
to produce acceptable accounting and reports, and salaries for casual workers required for
village demarcation.
3.63            Disbursements for all expenditures will be against full documentation except
for item (e) alTove and for expenditures under contracts and purchase orders with values
below USD20,000, which are to be based on statements of expenditure. Supporting
documentation for statements of expenditure should be retained by the borrower for IDA
review. The statements of expenditure will require special audit each year (para 3.67).
3.64            The Project is to be completed over six years and a schedule of quarterly
disbursements is shown in Annex 12, Table 1 and is summarized below:
USD millions           --
IDA              FY       92          93         94          95          96            97
Annual                     4.2         4.9        2.7         3.0         1.9           1.6
Cumulative                 4.2         9.1        11.8        14.8       16.7          18.3
3.65            The Project comprises pilot schemes, policy-related studies and time-slice
support for the village demarcation program. There is no close analogy for this type of
Project among those for which Bank-wide, regional or country disbursement profiles have
been computed. Disbursement profiles for general agricultural and forestry projects have an
eight-year disbursement period. An eight-year disbursement period, however, will be too
long for testing pilot programs that should phase into more widespread implementation



-40 -
sooner, while policy-related studies will be completed in the initial project years. A six-year
project period is more appropriate for this Project. Measures to speed up project
implementation include the use of the PPF advance by Government to hire a full-time high-
level project coordinator. The regional activities are to be supported by a strong technical
assistance team that will also help to ensure timely implementation. Project completion is
therefore scheduled for December 31, 1997 and the Closing Date for June 30, 1998.
3.66         Special Accounts. To ensure that funds for the Project are readily available
when needed, and to reduce the number of disbursement claims to be processed, two special
accounts in US dollars will be established with an offshore commercial bank, one for
MLHUD and one for MTNRE. Upon project effectiveness, USD 0.5 million will be
deposited by IDA into each of these accounts to be used for any expenditures financed by
IDA. This amount is in line with the average 3-4 months disbursement rate. Further deposits
to replenish the Special Account will be made against withdrawal applications supported by
appropriate documentation.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.67         Each participating agency will maintain identifiable project accounts in
accordance with sound and consistent accounting principles and methods as described in
Annex 15. These accounts will be consolidated by the Project Coordination office. Annual
financial statements prepared for audit will consist of a summarized statement of sources and
application of funds relating to the Project, together with a summarized statement of the
Special Account. Project accounts, as well as disbursements based on statements of
expenditure and resulting from the use of the Special Account, will be audited separately each
year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. During project implementation,
Government, through the Project Coordination office, will be required to submit to IDA
certified copies of the audit reports within nine months after the end of each fiscal year. A
financial controller will be hired to develop an accounting system. Such a system will help to
ensure that accounts are available so that audits can be done in a timely fashion. Experience
with the Sao Hill Forestry Project, Phase II (Credit 1229-TA), as described in the PCR (in
process) shows that the institutional capacity to handle audit requirements has been developed.
At negotiations, Government gave assurances that it will ensure that MTNRE and
MLHUD establish independent Project Accounts in the regions and districts benefitting
from the Project.



- 41 -
IV. Project Implementation
A. Organization and Management
4.01         The Project's organization and management follows the existing decentralized
structure of the Government. (The organigram of the Project is included in Annex 10.)
Management of the Project will rest with two ministries and two regions: (i) MTNRE for
strengthening the forestry services; (ii) MLHUD for the land policy, village demarcation and
registration activities; and (iii) Tabora and Mwanza Regions for related field activities. In
order to coordinate project activities, a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has been
formed, comprising as permanent members the Principal Secretaries (PS) of the two
ministries, the Regional Development Directors of Mwatiza and Tabora, the commmisioner in
charge of local governments of the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the Director of FBD, and
the Director of SMD; the Commissioner for Lands, and the Director of IRA will be coopted
when needed. The PCC is chaired by the Principal Secretary of the ministry responsible for
the forestry subsector, and the Principal Secretary of the ministry responsible for lands policy
and village demarcation acts as the vice-chairman. A Project Coordinator appointed by
MTNRE and a Deputy Project Coordinator to be appointed by MLHUD will form the
secretariat of the PCC. The PCC will meet at least every quarter; it will review progress and
resolve outstanding issues. It will approve work programs and review all the reports prior to
their submission to IDA.
4.02         The land use and natural resource mapping and the Natural Resources
Information Center subcomponents will be directed technically by the National Committee for
Natural Resources Information, chaired by the Director of the Survey and Mapping Division
(SMD) and with representation from FBD, NEMC, NLUPC, the Planning Commission, the
PMO, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, MALD, Ministry of Water, Energy
and Minerals, and IRA. The mapping will be contracted to firms or agencies with experience
in resource assessments and land use identification using satellite imagery, and will involve
participation from FBD, IRA, and MALD in the assessment and mapping, to help strengthen
local institutional capabilities. The Natural Resources Information Center will be located in
IRA.
4.03         Within MTNRE, overall responsibility for forestry-related components will
rest with FBD. A Project Coordinator will be appointed under the Principal Secretary to
manage the project budget for the forestry component, and to coordinate and monitor its
implementation. Funds for the work to be carried out at the regional level will be provided
through budget allocations from FBD to a regional project account. For activities a; the
district level, funds will be made available through PMO to a district project account, on the
basis of district forestry work plans approved by the Regional Forest Officer (RFO) and
cleared by the PCC. The coordinator will liaise closely with the Director of FBD and be
answerable to the PS. He/she will be assisted by an accountant, and during the first year by a
procurement officer and a financial controller. The Project Coordinator will liaise closely
with all relevant sections of the FBD, IRA, and the Regional and District Forest Services of
Mwanza and Tabora Regions.
4.04         At the regional level, management responsibility for component
implementation will lie with the RFO who will be assisted by a project assistant administrator



- 42 -
(PAA) on administrative matters. The RFO will take overall responsibility for supervising
implementation at the regional level and coordinating and monitoring all district level
activities. The RFO will report to FBD on all project-related matters, and receive guidance
from the PCC through FBD on project implementation policies and priorities. The RFO will
keep the regional management team informed of the progress of all project activities. To
perform project-related duties, the RFO will lead a project management team comprised of:
(i) a Regional Forest Extension Officer (RFEO) who will be seconded by FBD, and (ii) a
specialist (Community Development Specialist in Mwanza and Forest Management Specialist
in Tabora) who will be provided through technical assistance. In Tabora, the representative
of TAFORI will also be a member of the management team. The management team will
liaise with the Regional Surveyor to ensure coordination and collaboration between the project
forestry and lands components at the regional level. Additionally, liaison will be established
with all NGOs in the two regions, particularly with CARITAS in Mwanza. The RFO will
assign day-to-day responsibilities for the project to the RFEO. The Project will engage
expatriate services in the regions. The technical assistant personnel assigned to the regions
will support project implementation and play a catalytic role in a process combining on-the-
job training and developing work methodologies and procedures. It is expected that by the
end of project implementation, the Regional and District Forest Services will be largely self-
reliant. At the regional level, the RFO will be the first signatory on funds released to the
region for project implementation. The funds will operate through an independent project
account opened under the Regional Development Director, and the Regional Accountant will
be the second signatory. The Regional Accountant may delegate the PAA to act as the second
signatory on his/her behalf.
4.05         At the district level, the DFO will have overall responsibility for project
management and implementation. His/her main tasks will include preparation of an annual
work plan and implementation program, coordination of field activities, and supervision and
control. The DFO will lead a District Project Management Team which will support him/her
in performing all project-related functions. The team will be composed of three Divisional
Assistant Forest Officers and three village leaders. The team members will rotate periodically
to facilitate an equal representation of all divisions and villages that come under project
execution. The DFO will rep--t to the F.FO on all j,:oject-related matters and receive
guidance from the RFO on overall project implementation policy and priorities. He/she will
further be guided by the District Management Team which will meet at least once a month,
preferably each time in a different division and/or village, to review project progress, provide
inputs for planning, and solve outstanding issues. At the district level the DFO will be the
first signatory on funds released to the district from MTNRE. The funds will be dispersed
through an independent project account opened under the District Executive Director, with the
District Planning Officer or his representative as the second signatory. The funds in the
district project account will be replenished from the project budget in accordance with
approved work plans as well as accomplishment of the works programmed under the district
forestry work plan.
4.06         In MLHUD, SMD will be responsible for organizing and coordinating the
demarcation and survey work at the national and regional levels. The overall direction, work
programming, and quality control will be done at the central level with the regional survey
departments forming, coordinating, and supervising survey teams in the field. External
monitoring will be provided by the land policy secretariat (para. 3.22). A National Village
Demarcation Program Coordinator (NVDPC) and a DPC are to be placed at SMD. The
NVDPC and a National Coordinator for Village Titling have been appointed. A condition of



- 43 -
effectiveness is that MLHUD appoint a full-time Deputy Project Coordinator. The
NVDPC will work under the Director of SMD and be responsible for the implementation of
the National Village Demarcation Program. He/she will coordinate regional work programs,
supervise and monitor implementation, and liaise with other relevant divisions, particularly
the Land Development Services Division (LDSD) on village titling and registration. The
DPC, with a close link to the PC, will support the NVDPC and the Commissioner of Lands,
and manage the project budget for the lands component and coordinate and monitor
implementation of the land activities. SMD will supervise the programming and the
implementation of the village survey and demarcation activities. In addition, SMD staff will
prepare educational programs for regional, district, and village officials on the demarcation
and titling program. They will visit each of the regions at least twice a year to organize
activities and to ensure that these activities are being carried out according to acceptable
standards and approaches. SMD will provide support for district survfying and demarcation
to ensure that resources are allocated to the appropriate activities and priorities. All major
equipment and materials needed for the implementation of project activities will be bought
centrally and will remain under the control of the National Village Demarcation Program.
The equipment and material used to support field implementation will be allocated to the
project activities in the districts and regions. Upon completion of project activities in one
area, all transferable technical and logistical equipment and material will be re-allocated to
another area selected according to an established work plan and specified priorities.
4.07         The DPC will provide administrative support to the Land Development
Services Division (LDSD) and its five zonal offices to facilitate the processing of titles and the
registration of deeds, which follows the demarcation and survey work. The support will also
enable the Division to expedite the flow of paperwork between the Commissioner of Lands'
office and the villages. The DPC support will include informational campaigns and follow-up
semi-annual visits from the LDSD to the Lands Development Officer in the region to ensure
timely processing of the deeds.
4.08         Responsibility for the management of the lands component at the regional
level, will lie with the Regional Surveyor (RS) who will be assisted by two to three surveyors
from the Regional Survey Office and a PAA. The RS will take overall responsibility in
supervising and monitoring the implementation of the component activities, and will liaise
closely with the project's forestry component regional management team. The RS will report
to the NVDPC on all project-related matters and receive guidance, from the PCC through the
NVDPC, on project implementation policies and priorities. The surveyors will be responsible
for organizing regional survey teams and supervising the district survey teams in
implementing the village survey and demarcation work.
4.09         At the regional level, execution of the survey work will involve the
establishment of regional survey teams, each composed of one of the surveyors assisting the
RS, and two to three district survey teams. Each district survey team will include two
surveyors/technicians from the District Survey Departments and two to four casual laborers
from the villages to do the demarcation of the boundaries. Depending on the number of
districts and villages and on the priority for the demarcation work, each region will have two
or three regional teams composed as above (i.e., four to nine teams in each region directly
involved with t! t surveying and demarcation work). It is expected that surveying and
demarcation work can be carried out during approximately nine months of the non-rainy
season.



44 -
;             4.10          A project account is to be set up at the regional level where project funds are
required for the implementation of village survey and demarcation activities. Following the
approval of and authorization by the PS of the MLHUD, the RS and Regional Accountant or
his/her representative will become the first and second signatories respectively, on the project
funds deposited to the regional proiect account. Any expenditure for and payments to the
district survey teams is to be materialized through either the supervising surveyors or the
District Administrative Officer.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation and Re I2tin!
4.11         Project monitoring will be the responsibility of the PC and the two DPCs,
each dealing with their respective project component(s). A short-term monitoring and
evaluation specialist will be responsible for designing the monitoring and evaluation system
covering all components, training project staff on monitoring and evaluation, and providing
follow-up support. For Component I, the focus will be on the implementation of policy-
related studies and surveys to ensure that: (i) studies have been carried out according to
respective TORs; and (ii) findings have been brought to the attention of relevant policymakers
through workshops, seminars, publications and other means. For Components II and m
implementation monitoring will focus on: (i) physical and financial achievements as set against
targets and programs; (ii) progress in improving the technical and economic efficiency of
village demarcation and titling and forestry extension; and (iii) the impact of project activity
implementation on social, cconomic, environment, and gender issues.
4.12         Provision will be made for independent monitoring and evaluation of village
demarcation and titling. This evaluation will be undertaken by local researchers and/or
consultants. The objectives of this monitoring and evaluation will be to: (i) ensure that all
villagers are aware of the demarcation and titling process and procedures and their
significance; (ii) ensure that demarcation procedures take account of the existing patterns of
natural resource use and rights (including use of and rights to arable land, pasture, browse,
trees and water); (iii) identify the nature and incidence of boundary disputes and the ways
they are resolved; (iv) assess social, economic and environmental impact of demarcation and
titling; and (v) determine the effectiveness and efficiency with which demarcation and titling
are carried out.
4.13         The implementing agencies will prepare detailed annual work programs,
including annual budgets. FBD's current programming and budgeting systems are out-dated
and, during project year 1, the PC will develop an up-to-date, computerized annual work
program system in a format satisfactory to IDA, which will tie in with: (i) the accounting
system (para. 3.67), (ii) procurement system (paras. 3.57-3.60), and reporting and monitoring
system (paras. 4.11-14). Annex 14 explains the typical contents of an annual work program.
Preparation of draft annual work programs and budgets will be timed to fit the cycle of
budget submission to treasury and allow prior comments by IDA.



45..
4.14         Semi-annual and annual project progress reports will be prepared jointly by
the PC and two DPCs and be submitted to IDA through the PCC by the end of July and
December, respectively, of each year. Each report will highlight the main events of the
reporting period including physical implementation progress, expenditures incurred, project
staffing status, and procurement of materials and services. These reports will compare actuals
with planned targets and annual work progrwn%. At negotiations, Government gave
assurances that it will: (a) by December I in each year furnish to the Association an
annual report on the implementation of the Project and a work program for the
following year, and (b) thereafter review together with the Association, the annual
budget of the forestry subsector on the basis of the work program.
D. Mid-term Review
4.15         At negotiations, Government gave assurances that it will, not later than
September 30, 1995, carry out jointly with the Association, a mid-term review of the
Project. During the mid-term review a comprehensive assessment will be made to determine
the Project's progress in achieving its targets and addressing key issues. Success in
implementation will be reviewed and any modifications required will be considered.
Discussions with Government at the mid-term review will reflect the Bank's Forest Policy.
MLHUD will prepare a written report summarizing the lessons learned from land policy
studies with respe:t to securing village tenure rights over what are now public lands and with
respect to the effect of the issuance of village titles over the existing rights of individual
villagers. The success of the village demarcation component in resolving boundary disputes,
securing tenure for village and individual occupancy, and in improving land and resource
management also will be reviewed. Based on the findings of the review, recommendations
will be made on expanding the implementation of this component into 10 additional regions
during the remaining years of the Project. With regard to strengthening the regional and
district forest services, the review will assess the social, economic and environmental impact
of related activities and, if necessary, make recommendations for changes in their design.
During the mid-term review it will be decided if the activities of this component should be
expanded geographically during the second half of the Project and, if so, recommendations
will be made for proposed expansion. Progress made on improving royalty collection also
will be reviewed, and recommendations given for any further action.



- 46 -
V. Benefits, Risks and Sustainability
A. Benefits
5.01           r.ie Project will assist Government in addressing broad land and natural
resource management issues and in promoting the involvement of non-public sector parties,
such as farmers, villages and NGOs, in the management of forest resources. The main
benefit will be the strengthening of the policy, information and institutional base for managing
Tanzania's forest and land resources in an economically, socially and ecologically sound way.
These improvements should help slow the pace of environmental degradation in Tanzania and
reduce-the administrative and financial burden of Government's mandate.
5.02           Because of its services and institution-building orientation most of the benefits
cannot be quantified and the Project does not easily lend itself to conventional economic
analysis. Indeed, the Project has its main justification in the nonquantified benefits, mainly
arising from the development of policies and improved services and institutions.
Ouantifiable Benefits
5.03           The Project will generate quantifiable benefits from three sources: (i)
improved management of forests; (ii) more effective and intensive forestry extension services
in two regions; and (iii) increase in revenue collection.
5.04           Natural Forest (Miombo) Management: The environmental assessment of
the Project (para 5.09) estimated that Mwanza and Tabora suffer a deforestation rate of
50,000 ha per annum, and that this deforestation represents a reduction in forest worth of
USD150 miilion per annum (Annex 1, Table 5).1' Under the Project, about 450,000 ha of
forests and woodland will come under improved management. The main objective in the
short and medium run is not to increase production, but rather to limit the damage to the
environment while maintaining production at an ecologically sustainable level. Quantifying
the benefits of this intervention is difficult; no hard data exist separating the effects of
different causes of natural resource loss in miombo areas, and the effectiveness of the
proposed forest management is not known. The required data can only be produced thr.igh
pilot management of miombo woodlands and one of the initial contributions of the Project will
be to provide such data.
5.05           One attempt at quantifying the benefits of improved management has been
made for the Project. This estimation, however, focuses exclusively on the returns to the
reduction in the incidence of forest fires and the damage it causes to production of timber in
the Project area (para 3.45). It estimates that the Project will yield an economic rate of return
IS/ Ts loss bsed on a value per hcotarm of USD3300, is likely to be oveetimated because: (i) the defortion
eomate in bhed on unreliable national figures; (ii) the potential, not acual, value of the resource is used, whilo in
the medium run, an intermediate value may be more relevant as a meare of the los of natual wealth; (iii) it is
asumed that no altenative economic uwe exist for the land once cleared; (iv) a stinable cutting cycle of 20 yoa
is asmmed, when 40 yean is generally considered to be a more precise approximation; and (v) the global costs in
tem  of carbon emiions ae based on quesionable assumptions (a proposed Swedish tax to carbon anissions). It is
unqustionable, however, that the amount of deforeation and its assoiate' economic loss is large.



- 47 -
(ERR) of about 13%, based on a reduction of 0.1% or 1 ha out of 1000 in the area destroyed
by fires.
5.06         Forestry Extension: The economic  -lysis for forestry extension assesses
benefits solely in terms of the incremental production   poles and fuelwood. Environmental
benefits are not taken into account. Also absent in the analysis are the benefits associated
with private sector development in the production of seedlings and fuelwood. Assuming
present trends of demand for seedlings, a survival rate for seedlings similar to that obtained
by successful NGOs working in the region, and valuing firewood and charcoal at the
economic cost of imported substitutes, an ERR of 12% is estimated. If a strong increase in
demand for planting trees (as has occurred in similar areas where deforestation has been as
strong as it has been in Mwanza in recent years) and the development of a market for
fuelwood is assumed the resulting ERRs will be higher (Annex 11).
5.07         Revenue Collection: The revenue collection study produced estimates of the
likely revenue increment to be derived from the recommended changes to the revenue
collection system (Annex 5, Appendix 4). Using different assumptions, the estimates fall in
the range of Tsh 129 million to 400 million per annum (constant, 1991 terms)-a 50 to 150%
increment to the existinig levels of collection (Annex 1, Table 2). Most of this increment will
come from a change in procedures involving only small incremental costs.
Non-Ouantiflable Benefits
5.08         The main non-quantifiable benefits of the Project stem from:
(i)   the new natural resource information and monitoring system that will enable
Government to prioritize investments based on a better knowledge of the
returns from alternative interventions;
(ii)   the development and implementation of forest policies that will improve and
increase the participation of local people in the management of forest
resources, encourage the planting of trees, and provide incentives for
appropriate uses of the forest resource;
(iii)  the preparation of national land policies and improved village demarcation that
will improve security of tenure, provide incentives for management of natural
resources by villages and villagers, and contain incipient tendencies towards
inequality and landlessness. Government is expected to proceed with village
demarcation whether or not it is supported by the Project. The Project will
provide the means for a more orderly and cost-effective demarcation process
by providing homogeneous standards and methodology for the surveying and
mapping and replacing the expensive system of aerial photography for the use
of satellite-based geographical positioning systems. Most importantly, the
Project will ensure that land policies are developed in conjunction with
demarcation activities and that feedback from villagers is taken into account
through an independent monitoring system so that the potential benefits to
villagers are in fact realized.



- 48 -
B. Impact on Environment
5.09         The Project is expected to have a significant, beneficial environmental impact.
Virtually all Project components are designed to promote sound resource management. An
environmental assessment (EA) of the proposed Forest Resources Management Project
focusing on the Mwanza and Tabora regional components was carried out in June 1990. The
EA concluded that the Project will have no significant adverse environmental impact. The EA
criticized the scope and speed of development of the Project as then described in the
preparation report and made a number of recommendations. All the major EA
recommendations (e.g., economic incentives for village reforestation and woodland
management, involvement of villages in the management of forest reserves, additional training
for forestry staff, and further studies and research into miombo woodland management) have
been incorporated in the Project with the exception of the introduction of subsidies to facilitate
the substitution of electricity for charcoal in Mwanza Town and the introduction of large-scale
subsidies for communal woodlots. The substitution of electricity for charcoal was examined
and not considered economically viable. Village woodland management was also examined.
The appraisal mission found that local experience with village woodland management was
insufficient to begin with a program as large as that suggested in the EA and proposed,
instead, that the Project begin with intensive work in a small number of villages and that
activities be expanded rapidly if progress warrants.
C. Gender Issues
5.10         As in most African countries, women in Tanzania play a significant role in the
forestry subsector as the primary gatherers of woodfuel for the household and fodder for
domesticated animals. Women are also the main collectors of a variety of other forest
products, including medicinal plants, resins, dyes, fruits, nuts, mushrooms, roots and fibers
for baskets and other handicrafts. Despite their important role, women are often prohibited
from owning land or the trees they plant. These constraints represent serious disincentives to
engaging in tree planting and maintenance.
5.11         Women are expected to benefit from the Project in a number of ways.
Women will benefit under the Mwanza and Tabora component of the Project through
increased training in the management and use of forest resources, including tree planting,
nutritional aspects of forest products, the development of forest-related income-generating
activities (e.g., production of fuelwood stoves and beekeeping), and increased involvement in
decision-making aspects of village woodland management (paras 3.32-3.34). The land policy
studies will examine the role of women and recommend ways to alleviate the constraints to
their efficient use and management of land (Annex 6, Appendix 1).
D. Private Sector Development
5.12         Government intends to promote a shift in the production of seedlings from
centralized Government nurseries to decentralized private nurseries. To produce incentives



- 49 -
for this transition a new policy has been established by which Government nurseries will no
longer distribute seedlings for free and will sell them at a price that covers production costs.
The Project will encourage private sector development by providing extension and training in
the cultivation of seedlings to private nurseries. Village demarcation supported by the Project
is expected to strengthen property rights over individually planted trees and communally
owned village woodlands. Village demarcation should encourage the use of negotiated
contractual agreements to govern access to forest resources.
E. Poverty Alleviation
5.13         In assisting in the development of land policies, the Project will take into
account the basic food and energy needs of the poor by ensuring that new policies avoid the
problems of landlessness experienced in neighboring countries. In its forest managemert
activities in Mwanza and Tabora, the Project will attempt to reconcile the needs of t,  poor
who benefit from fuelwood, beekeeping, grazing, and gathering of foodstuffs and redicine
with the uses and needs of the non-poor such as saw-millers and commercial charcoal
producers when developing forest management plans. The Project is geared toward helping
villages manage their forests in ways that benefit the community as a whole.
F. Sustainability
5.14         The development of policies, information resources, and institutional capacity
of the agencies in charge of natural resource management is geared to ensuring the long-term
sustainability of forest resources. The study of long-term financing for forestry will establish
the recurrent cost implications of all ongoing projects in the subsector and help Government
develop a long-term financial plan to ensure the financial sustainability of subsectoral activities
(paras 3.18-3.19). The technical assistance to be employed by the Project will have precisely
defined tasks and will be primarily of a short-term nature to reduce the risk of generating
dependence.
G. Risks and Uncertainties
5.15         The primary risks to the Project are delays in the formulation and
implementation of policies and delays in the strengthening of the forest service. Expression of
firm Government commitment to minimize these risks has been obtained. In particular,
Government already has issued circulars requiring enforcement of higher forest fees and
introducing prices for seedlings. In addition, a National Village Demarcation Program
Coordinator and a National Coordinator for Village Titling already have been appointed.
5.16         The Project also involves uncertainties concerning the demand among villagers
for forestry extension and the demarcation and titling of villages. Given the uncertainty
regarding villager interest in tree planting in Mwanza and Tabora, the Project will initiate
forestry extension activities on a small scale and expand them gradually as experience is been
gained. As it is not certain what forest management options villagers want and can adopt, the



- 50 -
Project will take a phased, pilot approach. This modest intervention is justified, despite the
existing uncertainties, by the high environmental costs that will arise if no intervention were
attempted to promote afforestation in the already deforested region of Mwanza and to limit
uncontrolled deforestation in Tabora. Village demarcation and titling activities will be
initiated in those regions where a clear need for demarcation is found, leaving for a second
phase (after the mid-term review) the expansion ef activities to other regions, if deemed
justified. Also, a strong media information campaign will precede demarcation activities to
stimulate villager participation in the demarcation process.



- 51 -
VI. Assurances and Recommendation
6.01         Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)    By November 30, 1992, Government will commence natural resource
mapping activities and not later than November 30, 1994, furnish to the
Association for its review complete maps and related area statistics (para
3.08).
(b)    Government will annually review royalty fees and by July 1 of each year,
adjust them by at least the rate of inflation for the previous year, to ensure
that their real values do not decline and that the fee structure reflects the
relative scarcity of the resource (para 3. 11);
(c)    Government will by March 31, 1993: (a) furnish to the Association the
recommendations for the establishment of the forest revenue reporting system,
for its review and comments; and (b) immediately thereafter commence
implementation of such system, taking the Association's comments into
account (para 3.12);
(d)    Government will by the end of the third year of Project implementation,
evaluate the pilot implementation of the revised revenue collection system and
make recommendations to the Association for expansion of the new system to
all regions (para 3.13);
(e)    Government will by the end of the third year of Project implementation, make
recommendations to the Association as to the need for and feasibility of
making effective the charging of v oodfuel fees for tobacco production and
introduction of the other measures to compensate for the effect of tobacco
production on forest resources (para 3.14);
(f)    By May 31, 1993, Government will initiate its activities for the identification
of best practices in forestry and by May 31, 1994, furnish to the Association
for its review a report of its findings (para 3.17).
(g)    By May 31, 1994, Government will complete an assessment of the long-term
financing needs of the forestry subsector, and thereafter ensure that adequate
provision is made in its budgets for the financing of forestry subsector
activities (para 3.18);
(h)    By October 31, 1992, Government will initiate its study on land policy and by
March 31, 1995, furnish to the Association for its review and comments the
results of this study (para 3.22); and
(i)    Government will by the end of the first year of Project implementation
complete the demarcation of about 165 villages, by the end of the second year
at least 250 additional villages and by the end of the third year at least 250



- 52 -
more villages. Targets for the following three years will be reviewed and
agreed upon during the mid-term review (para 3.24);
(j)    Government will by March 31, 1993, furnish to the Association: (a) an
extension program for Mwanza (para 3.32); and (b) a regional fore.t resource
plan for Tabora (para 3.43), all satisfactory to the AssociatVon;
(k)    Government will ensure that MTNRE and MLHUD establisht independent
Project Accounts in the regions and districts benefitting from the Project (para
3.67);
QI)    Government will: (a) by December 1 in each year furnish to the Association
an annual report on the implementation of the Project and a work program for
the following year, and (b) thereafter review together with the Association, the
annual budget of the forestry subsector on the basis of the work program (para
4.14);
(m) Government will not later than September 30, 1995, carry out jointly with the
Association, a mid-term review of the Project (para 4.15).
6.02         The following are to be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)    FBD seconds one graduate Tanzanian forester each to Mwanza and Tabora to
work as Regional Forest Extension Officers (para 3.39 and 3.52); and
(b)    MLHUD appoints a full-time Deputy Project Coordinator (para 4.06)
6.03         Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the Project is suitable for an
IDA Credit of SDR 13.2 million (USD 18.3 million equivalent) to the Government of
Tanzania on standard IDA terms with 40-years maturity.



- 53 -
Annex I
Pag I of8
Table I
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Forestry and Lands Background
Forest Area Distribution
('   ha)
Type ot Forest
- Closed forests                        1,400
- Mangrove                                80
Woodlands                           42,891
Use of Forest-land
- "Net productive" area               34,626
- "Unproductie" area                   9,745
To¢i:                           4437
Leal Status
- Forest reserves                      13,024
- forest/woodlands within national      2,000
parks, etc.
- Public forest lands                 29,347
Souece: TFAP



TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MA' .AGEMIEN PROEIw
Pontal for Revenue Collection
Total Co _mpt       Ex NaWl         Ex Naua        S co which    m c which fee    Av e fe         AvWe e          Tota Potai         TOtWl PuMal
'e             FOs             Port          f* payabl         payble       19/19,u         1990191          RevemefTih      RmneT~(199l
b              an'                                         Tb pperm"'    Taper '          (IMratms) TAb          nte)
JIutrW Tlmber.
Sawmls                     360,000            20            76,000           100            76,000           3t0           2,000         21,110,000         152,000,000
Pkawiz,                    153,000            90           137,700           t00           137,700           380          2,000          52,326,0O          275,400,000
Wodpanelb                   31,000             5             1,550           100             1,550           310           2,000           519,000            3,100.000
npelpulpmm                 144,00              0                0 oa n/la                                    nal             n/a                l                  ala
Fuewood:
- ual ue                16,150,000            90        14,S3s,000             5           726,750            14            142          tOt74,500         103,191,500
- uba household            100,000            50            50,000           1oo            so50,o            14            142            700,0OD             7,100,00
- _d"y/busha             2,700,000            50         1,350,000           100         1,350,000            14            142          11.900,000         191,700,000
- apleulur               2,200,000           100         2,200,000            so         1,100,000            14            142          15,400,000          156,200,00
Cbarcoal:
- muran                  2,000,000           100         2,000,000            50         1,000,000            21.5          142          21,500,000         142,000,000
- utban u                2,i00,000           100         2,100,000           ibo         2,100,000            21.5          142          59,850,000         291,2,000
Total                   25,953,000                      22,450,250                       6,S42,000                                      211,319,500       1,32S1.91,500
ACMTAL FEBS COLLECE  IN 19111:
- at 19  f srts TSb 43,000,000
- at 1991 fee tea TSb 251,000,000
- Fee coleted we  1990 of Poetia
Nctee    1. Saw=-.: TPA.
2. ae WU.
3. Fee perm'asold.
ti, 0
IDIX
i



- 55 -
Annex I
EatBe 3 of S
Table 3
TZAZNIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGMENT
ComVeilc of Royalty Foos, 1991, 1987 nd 1990
unit                 1o0      1#7 Nt#.d        136l   t151 Fee In
NesqIma       F...        Nandeal      13  Talh
(Td,S
Paot A: Non^Pluutdge Psoduats
km. 1. Low
Chug I                                  it.cu.n.             5100.00       1600.00      660.00         3415.00
Cass. N                                 stcu.m.              2600.00       420.00       175.00         1732.50
Cl... U                                 .t.au.m.             1400.00       300.00       120.00         1133.00
cgs". IV                                o.Gt.uM.              60.00        200.00        60.00          78.00
Class V                                 stcu.m.               600.00       120.00        60.00          504.00
a... VI                                 OLCU.m.               400.00       100.00        40.00          316.00
kams2 Pl.
3Bus pcI.                              each                   15.00         5.00         1.50           14.85
Plaat.Ion poke.                        per mate               10.00         3.00         1.00            1.60
kam 3. WltMa                              hadoamd               26.00         10.00         2.00           10.80
WktM..                               so palag              25.00         10.00         2.00           10.60
It.m 4. Rlmwood
3Bus and haedwocd plantadan             gt.cu.n,.             100.00         10.00        4.50           44.5
Plantalla (softwood)                    .t.cu.nL               50.00         6.00         2.00
Tlrn 1.1.o... fualwood                  23 koAd.n
fakl. woodlmontli    200.00         20.00         7.00          63.30
It..Charoa                            213 ki.bag             60.00         10.00        4.00           39.60
It. 6. Raffi fibe                         1000 kg.             400.00        640.00       220.00         2176.00
It..?. Rand anW Pant.
IlWonalo...miamantal. In pot           plant                  10.00         5.00         2.00           13.30
UnW goianumnti, In Pat                 plant                  10.00         5.00         3.00           26.70
klm S. Mangrwv. Produce
LOW.                                    gt.cu.m.              500.00        120.00       60.00          51400
poke
Clam I                                 aon600.00                          400.00       160.00         1564.0
cI.. U                                 .cots                 400.00       240.00       100.00          33.00
Cie". W                                GCrn                  320.00        75.00        60.00          51400
Clam. IV                               *ccre                 160.00        40.00        30.00          217.00
Chug V                                 ace.                   60.00        50.00        20.00          131.00



Annex 1
- 56 -                                        Page 4 of 8
Table 3
Compion of Royaly Fm. M1 . 1567 an  IM
Unkt                 low      ISo Ndnd         166        1111"Pm
einsI         Pee        Nno""         1O Ted
kem*. Watde 0eA kt.au.m.                                        20.00         20.00        5.00           40.50
WatW SsA                                ha                   200.00        240.00       100.00          660.00
her 10. S _AM
Unde 5 ea. dkWSt                       flutr                   5.00                       0.00
Ove I euL immter                        nw0                    6.00                       0.00
Its. 11. Gum N Rn                        kg.                    50.00                      0.00
khm 12. Any knw not Sed In Pet A.B.      month                 100.00         15.00       12.00          116.60
Patn IL, Rantalom Product
keh 1. gottwooe
A. ClarfeN nte.
Pulpwood w  fencepot. Iee thoa 10 cm    cu.m.(bb             300.00        170.00        70.00          &3.00
Fencepoeta, 10-20cm                     cu.m.fob)            330.00        100.00        00.00         702.00
Sawog.a   21-13 am                      cu.m.lob)            6S0.00        210.00        90.00         391.00
SawIpeer logog 2630 am                  cu.m.lob)            770.00        260.00       100.00         160.00
Sawip/eeer loge 31.35cm                 cu.m.1ob)            330.00        270.00       110.00         1069.00
Sawipeele loge 3 aemend over            cu.m.lob)            020.00        290.00       120.00         1160.00
D. Thmngn ae'
1. Flet thitdnni
Pupwood ond encepoeta,. le thon 10 om   cu.m.lob)            210.00        119.00        49.00         486.10
Fenoeposte, 10-20 0th                   cu.m.lob)            231.00        133.00        56.00         3440
sew loge. 21-25 am                      cu.mJob)             466.00        147.00         3.00          623.70
Sew/peeler loge, 2630 cm                cu.m. obl            339.00        175.00        70.00          693.00
Sw/peeler   ,31-35cm                    mum.(ob)             681.00        130.00        77.00          76.30
Sew/pele  ge. 10cm and over             cu.m.(ob)            044.00        203.00        64.00          6lO
2. Seond thinng
Pldpwood end fencepoete. kes then 10 cm  cu.m(lob1           240.00        136.00        56.00         564.40
FPncepoeb, 10.20 cm                     cu.m.loO)            264.00        12.00         64.00          6S33O
Saw logo. 21-25 cm                      au.m.lobl            520.00       1t0.00         72.00          712.00
Sew/peele loge. 26-30 m                 cu.m.lob)            616.00        200.00        60.00          792.00
6bw/peebr og, 31-35 am                  cu.m.lobl            664.00        21600        38.00           371.20
Sew/peeler Mog. 3t am nd over           ou.m.lobt            726.00        232.00        06.00          960.40
3. Thld tnig
Pulpwood and fencepoot, e. than 10 cm   cu.m.(obJ            270.00        1530         63.00          623.70
eancepoete, 10W20 cm                    cu.m.lob)            267.00        171.00        72.00          712.60
Saw log. 21-25 cm                      cu.m.lob)             5.00         136.00        S1.00          601.90



57                                         Annex I
Page 5 of 8
Table 3
Comparison of Royakty Fees, 1981, 1987 and 1990
Unit                1990     1987 NomnWa     1361        1981 Fea In
Nomnoln      Fee         Nominal      1990 Tsh
FeH                      Feen
ITch)
fawlpeer logo, 28-30 cm                cu.m.lob)            6093.00       226.00       90.00         391.00
Saw/poe.r log, 31-35 cm               cu.m.(ob)            747.00        243.00       99.00         910.10
Sw/peeler loge, 36 cm and over         cu.m.(ob)            823.00        201.00      106.00         10609.20
Iem 2. Hacdwood plantationr
Clearfeng
cace I                                cu.m.tmo
Lee than 20 cm                                       246.00
21.30 cm                                              300.00        86.00       60.00          50400
31-40 cm                                             330.00         96.00       75.00          742.50
41W46 cm                                              660.00       156.00      120.00         1188.00
46-50 cm                                              900          225.00      180.00         1782.00
over 60 cm                                           1000.00       225.00      180.00         1782.00
Clss b                                 cu.m.tmo
Lses than 20 cm                                      246.00
21.30 cm                                             600.00        200.00      150.00         1485.00
31.40 cm                                             900.00        260.00      200.00         1180.00
41-46 cm                                             1000.00       380.00      300.00         2970.00
46.60 cm                                             1200.00       380.00      300.00         2970.00
Over 50 cm                                           1400.00       380.00      300.00         2970.00
clae [il                              cu.m.tmo
Le thn 20 am                                         246.00
21.30 cm                                             300.00         65.00       60.00          495.00
31-40 cm                                             460.00         96.00       76.00          742.60
4146 cm                                               600.00       126.00      100.00          990.00
48.50 cm                                              760.00       156.00      126.00         1237.50
Over 60 cm                                            900.00       185.00      150.00         1486.00
Caie IV                                cu.m.tmno
Love than 20 cm                                       246.00
21.30 cm                                              300.00        65.00       60.00          406.00
3140 cm                                               330.00       126.00      100.00          990.00
41465 m                                               6S6.00       126.00      100.00          990.00
4860 em                                               900.00       126.00      100.00          990.00
Over 60 cm                                            960.00       126.00      100.00          990.00



- 58 -
Amun I
hU6of 8
Table 4
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Villages by Region
Tanzania
Region of          No. of       No. Surveyed            Population Density           Growth      DiariU
Villages    (as of 9/30/90)       (Persons/Square Kilometer)       Rate
1967       1968        1988       (1965-80)
Arush                      596               21           7          11         16           3.8          8
Dar-es-Salaam                I                1         156        605         977           4.8          1
Dodoma                     422               75          17         24          30.          2.4          3
Iringa                     599               51          12          16         21           2.7          5
Kagera                     523              49           23         36          47           2.7          5
Kigoma                     421               36          13         18          23           2.8          3
Kilimanjaro                361               84         49          68          83           2.1          5
Lindi                      361               63           6          8          10           2.0          4
Mara                       344               22          28         37          S0           2.9          4
Mbeya                      572               38          12          18         25           3.1          6
Morogora                   457               37          10          13         17           2.6          4
Mtwa                       418              387         37          46          53            1.4         3
Mwanza                     644               30         57          74          86           2.6          6
Pwanl (Coast)              235               27          13         16          20           2.1          5
Rukwa                      326               75          4           7          10           4.3          3
Ruvuma                     590              61           6           9          12           3.4          3
Shinyanga                  585               52          18         26          35           2.9          5
Singida                    326               21           9          12         16           2.5          3
Tabora                     418               24           7          11         14           2.4          4
Tanga                      538              127          29         39          48           2.1          6
TOTAL                     8637           1201J1          14          19         26           3.3         86
I/ Of this total, 981 Ceotificates of Occupancy have been ent to the Chairmen of Villages for signatr, and only 201 have
boen returned to the Commissioner for signature and subsequent registration.



- 59 -
Annex I
Ege7 ofj
Table S
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES5 MANAGEMENT PROlEC
Benerts from Miombo Woodilandsl/
Level                       Value per ha (US$)   %
Local                         1,050                       32
National                        750                       23
Global                        1,500                      45
Total                         3,300                       100
LOWViu
h is asMmed that miombo wowdln can be harvesed on a *sained basis by cutting every 20 yes as folows:
- cufiag of soled  m   commercial timber troe  5-10 d per ha (average 7.5 m' per ha)
- pnetecti  of seedlings and young commercial timber tees for later cuming after multiple of 20 years
- cutting of remainig les valuable treea 30-50 ml per ha (avero 40 ml per ha) for chucoal (90%) sad poles (10%).
to this way an avego of 47.5 m' per ha will be haivestd per 20 year period whLich is equivalent to a yield of 2.4 m' per ha ad year.
The value of the wood per ha per 20 year coupe can be calculad then as:
R3veu:
Minga sawlop I.Sms at Tab 21,700                          Tah       32,550
Othercommvislawlogd6 m  atTsh 14,000                      Tsh       84,000
Pols 4 m a 20 pole  t Tch 200                             Tab       16,000
C3scoal 36 ml of wood - 108 bags at Tab 4002              Tab       43,200
C:
Qmuiag of poles and chol mJking                           Tab       23.200
Royalty for timbr 7.5 ms at Tab 500                       Tab        3,750
Royty for fjeiwood and poles 40 m' at Tab 235             Tab        9,400
NAK Vduo.                                                 Tab       139,400
Prs  value of havesting tday sd in 20 yeam at 10% inrest
Tab 139,400 + Tab 139,400/6.73 - Tab 160,113              Tsb       160,113
The vau of beekeeping can be clculated suming t 2 hives per h could be operated on a  susain  basis. The value per ha per year can
be caculat  as follows:
Hoeq 30 kg T    0Tsh90                                    Tab       2,700
Buwx 2 r at Tb 375                                        Tab        750
Subtota                                                   ThL       3,450
The Qset value of this anua output in 20 year   a at 10% intert is:
Tah 3,450 X 8.52 - Tab 29,360                             Tab       29,360
It is ot poible to quaiy te ethr local values, but they are substantial. The moderate figur of Tab 10,527 is asmed to rowund up the
total lAl pest value. Heace, the tot local value per ha is Tah 200,000 and per m (Tab 200,0o /474) is Tab 4,210.
.V  Dumaa fiom Dangr Advier a/l & Cad Bro Ierntonal, Envionmntal Asssment of Tanzeni Fst Reooure
Manage_met Project June 1990 (draft4)



- 60 -
Annex 1
Pane 8 of 8
Table 5
Nationl Value
Royalties per ha nd 20 year coupe:
Timber 7.5 m' at Tsb 500                                   Tah       3,750
Puewood and charcol 40 m' at Tah 235                       Tah       9,400
Subtotl                                                    Tab       13,150
Preat value when cutting today and in 20 yean at 10% interest:
Tab 13,150 + Tah 13,15016.73- Tah 15,104                   Tab       15,104
The value of timber export per ha a  20 year coupe:
Muinga timber 1.5 m. at Tab 84,000                         Tah       126,000
Preet value of cutting today and in 20 yers at 10% interest:
Tah 126,000 + Tah 126,000/6.73 - Tab 144,722               Tah       144,722
Total aAiona1 valme pr ha is Tah 159,826 and per mn is Tah 3,365.
Wtc t-Srta' wood, thebr. is an emission of about 825 kg of CO2 per m' of wood. It haJ been proposed that a tax equivalent to Tab 7.75 per
kj of CC  omift'ion r charged for the combustion of fossil fuels. This tax is used to calculate a global value per ha (47.5 m3 X 825 kg X
TqA 7.75) of Teb 303.703 al per m3 (825 kg X Tah 7.75) of Tab 3,365.



- 61 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 7
Table 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TFAP and Donor Support
TFAP Targets
Unit      1988     1990        1998         2008
Community and Farm Forestry
Total seedling production                     million       -       25          88          240
village woodlots                     seedlings       -        -       3,500        7,000
number
Natural Forests
Miombo Forest - management                   '000 ha        -       60         840         1,700
- screeping firelines                   km           -     200        2,800        5,600
Mangrove Forest - management                  '000 ha       -       40          80           80
Forest Reservation - new area                '000 ha        -      350       3,150        6,750
- screeping firelines                   km           -     200        1,800        3,800
Industrial Plantations
Planting of hardwoods (cumulative)              ha          -    1,000       12,000      26,000
Thinning                                        ha          -      400         600         1,000
Road construction (cumulative)                 km           -       50         900         1,900
Bio-energy Development
Charcoal stove use by urban households       % of total     1        -          30           50
Improved fuelwood stove use by rural households    % of total  1     -          1S           30
Use of improved charcoal kins                % of total     3        -          30           S0
Use of institutional charcoal stoves         % of total     3        -          55           80
Forest Industries
Production of roundwood                      '000 m3      708        -        1.210        1,870
Production of sawnwood                       '000 m3      215                  330          490
Production of wood-based panels              '000 m3       14        -          35           55
Production of paper and board                '000 ton      29        -          86          112
Beekeeping
Production of honey                            tons     5,400                11,600       18,000
Production of beeswax                          tons       350        -         770         1,200
Wildlife Conservation and Management
Management area (cumulative)                 '000 ha        -        -         650        2,000
Source: TFAP



- 62 -
Annex 2
Page 2 gf-7
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGMENT PROJECT
TFAP Recommendations and Development Progranm
The TFAP recommends that information on natural resource use, including
land, forests and other resources, be collected and permanendy monitored and that institutions
in charge of natural resources and land administration be strengthened. The TFAP
recommends a reorientation in forest policy from emphasis on the control of forest estates to
the promotion of forestry on communal private lands; it also recommends, however, that a
reservation program be pursued in lightly populated regions such as Coast, Kigoma, Lindi,
Mtwara, Rukwa and Ruvuma. In districts where there are extensive forests, it recommends
that new Local Government Authority reserves be established. It also recommends that after
demarcation of village boundaries, village authorities set aside forest areas for conservation
and production. The TFAP also recommends the expansion of tree planting by individuals or
groups through extension and training. The use of decentralized nurseries-as opposed to the
existing centralized Government nurseries-is emphasized. Recommendations are also made
for the conservation of grazing lands, particularly in areas with high concentrations of
livestock, through such practices as zero-grazing and fodder production and designation of
suitable areas as grazing lands. Strc ng emphasis is pleced on people's participation.
The TFAP recommends that forest management plans be prepared for the
major forest production and conservation reserves. It also recommends that contractor's
activities be controlled, and their responsibilities for harvesting, road construction and
maintenance, silviculture and reforestation be clearly delineated. It is also recommended that
forest industry become involved in tree growing and harvesting, and forest management.
Long-term supply contracts are proposed to encourage investment, particularly by private
industry, and are seen as essential in order to secure sustainable wood supplies. An increase
in the royalty levels to reflect th" real economic value of forest products and improved royalty
collection methods are emphasized. It is suggested that the fees payable on fine hardwoods be
raised substantially in order to encourage substitution of lesser-known species for low-value
purposes. With regard to wildlife, the Plan recommends improvements in anti-poaching
measures, the preparation and implementation of management plans for each conservation
area, strengthened planning and monitoring activities, and the initiation of programs in which
wildlife conservation contributes to rural development. Legislative changes that will allow
rural dwellers to participate in wildlife utilization schemes, and that will also permit the
development of a game-ranching industry are encouraged.
In order to achieve these objectives the TFAP also recommends a revision of
forest policy to improve the integration of forestry activities with those of other sectors, and
also to extend the scope of the Forest Act outside Forest Reserves. The development of a
land policy and associated legislation is also recommended. The TFAP also proposes that the
FBD be re-organized in order to give the Forestry Service a single line of command from
headquarters to the districts.
The TFAP was completed, discussed and endorsed by GoT and donors in late
1989. The TFAP contains a development programn to be implemented between the years



-63 -
Annex 2
Page 3 oL2
Appendix 1
1990/91 and 2007/08. Some 90 project profiles are included, with a total estimated cost of
US$670 million or about US$37 million per arnum. Sources of funding are indicated as 38%
from the public sector, 33% from the private sector, and 29% from external assistance.
Implementation may be difficult as past experience suggests that neither the public nor the
private sector is capable of carrying out such a large program. Improved implementation
capacity is needed. Sources of domestic funding also appear to be optimistically assessed,
given past experience -Id the present critical economic situation in the country and the fact
that other productive sectors are also competing for investment support.



- 64 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
Table 2
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Existing and Proposed Donor Support to the TFAP
1. Regional Activities:
Regional Level  Land Husbandry    Community      Forest           Beekeeping
Foresty        Management
Arusha         SIDA (P)          SIDA;           NORAD
Netherlmnds
Coast                            UNDP (P)        NORAD
Dodoma         SIDA (P)          Netherlands;
WFP (P)
Iringa         DANIDA            DANIDA (P)    DANIDA
Kagera                           UNDP (P);
Netherlands
Kigoma         NORAD (P)
Kilimanjaro                      JICA            NORAD
Lindi                            FINNIDA                          FINNIDA
Mara
Mbeya          EEC               EEC                              EEC
Morogoro                                         NORAD
Mtwara                           FINNIDA                          FINNIDA
Mwanza         WB                WB              WB
Rukwa
Ruvuma                           ILO/DANIDA
Shinyanga      NORAD and         Netherlands
UNDP/FAO/WFP
Singida
Tabora         WB                WB              WB               WB
Tanga          SECAP/GTZ         GTZ (P)         NORAD; CDC
(P); FINNIDA



Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
-65-                             Table 2
Central         WB                SIDA;           DANIDA; WB    ODA
Support:                          FINNIDA;
Ford
Foundation (P)
2. Central Agtivities:
Bioenergy: Danida; WB
Forest Industries: Danida; WB; Private Investment; Norad; Finnida; SIDA
Wildlife: WWF; IUCN; AWF; Netherlands; USAID; Norad
Ecosystems Conservation: WWF; SIDA; WB
People's Participation: Netherlands (P); Danida; UNDP; WB
Training and Manpower Development: SIDA; Norad; Finnida; Italy (P); AWF;
WCST
Forest Research: Norad; Finnida (P); WB
Planning: SIDA; Finnida; IUCN; WWF; WB
Note: (P) = Plann'd
Source: TFAP Secretariat, May 1991



- 66 -
Annex 2
Page 6 gf 7
Table 3
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Qngoing Donor funded and Related Foresty Projects
PROJECT                       Cost Tsh Million            Executing       Donor
Agency          Agency
Local        Foreign
- Hidafhi Ardhi Dodoma                       3.5          28.0         FBD             SIDA
Soil Conservation Projece
- Rukwa Integrated Rural                                 658.4         RDD/Rukwa       NORAD
Development Programme
- Amani Forest Inventory                                  11.5         FBD             FINNIDA
and Management Plan
- East Usambara Environmental               12.0          30.0         MALD            EEC
Conseivation Project
- Catchment Forestry                         7.0          52.6         FBD             NORAD
- National Forest Tree Seed Programme                    100.0         FBD             DANIDA
- Hai Afforestation                          0.9         160.0         FBD             FAO/lapan
- Singida Schools Forestry Project                        10.2         TCRS            NORAD
- Forest Nursery and Citrus farm                           0.8         TTPF            Netherlands
- Support to the Public Works                             35.0        ILO              ILO/Netherland
Programme
- Village Afforestation                      2.0          80.0         PMO             SI)A
- Babati Lamp Management                                  66.0         FBD             SIDA
- Forest Workers Education                   2.1          10.0         FBD             SIDA
- District Development Programmes                         48.0         DED/Maswa,    Netherlands
(with foresty components)                                            Bukoba Rural,
Mbulu, Meatu
- Assistance to the National Soil                        386.6         TARO            Netherlands
Services
- Dodoma Municipal Village                                14.4         PMO             Netherlands
Afforestation
- Sao Hill Forestry (Phase 11)              80.0          86.0         FBD             World Bank



- 67 -
Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
Table 3
PROJECT                                  Cost Tsh Million           Executing       Donor Agency
Agency
Local       Foreign
- Wood Industries Development                          503.4        FBD/TWICO    FINNIDA
Programme
- TWICO Rongai Sawmill                                  10.0        TWICO           SIDA
and Imara Furniture
- Sao Hill Sawmill                                     526.7        TWICO           NORAD
- Zonal Forest Management Office           8.2         140.0        FBD             SIDA
- College of African Wildlife                           14.6        CAWM            USAID
Management
- Wldlife Management                                   174.6        FBD             USAED
- Iringa Soil and Water                  141.5         566.0        Iringa          DANIDA
Conservation Project
- Seaweed Protection                       5.0          22.0        FBD             NORAD
- Forestry Training Institute, Olmotonyi   1.0          60.0        FBD             SIDA
- Support to Horticultural Institute                    96.7        MALD            Netherlands
Tengeru
- Support to Faculty of Forestry, SUA                  951.0        ME!             NORAD
- Assessment of the Wood Supply in                       6.8        MLNRT           FAO
Kigoma
- FT, Moshi                               10.0           0.9        FBD             FINNIDA
- TIRDEP - Soil Erosion Control and                    715.0        RDD/Tanga       F.R. Germany
Afforestation (SECAP)
- Selous Conservation Programme                        130.0        WD              F.R. Germany
- Community Forestry Section                            80.0        FBD             SIDA
- Planning Section                                      35.0        FBD             SIDA
- National Environmental                                45.0        NEMC            STDA
Management Council
- Tropical Forestry Action Plan                         75.6        FBD             FINNIDA
for Tanzania (TFAP)
Total 37 Projects                        273.20      5,930.80
Average                            7.38        160.29



- 68 -
Annex 3
Page I of 2
Chart 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROlECT
Institutional Organization
Organization of Forestry and Beekeeping Division
Ministry of Towuism lbtural Resources and Enviroment|
I
Frinxipal Secretar
rpowr lBev. & Aknin.  |Director, FO
Forest Deveingnnt,    Iksech         Beepg
Projects  Meanagnt and              and
Utilizetlon             Statistics
- industrial   - Forest etelol)pner.t- Pesearch    - Research and
Plantation      and lMnaqwnt       Coordination   Training
- atershed     - Cmmnity Forestry- Data Br         - Extenslion and
Mngenent   - Suivey and Irventories                Ptlicity
- Cunity        - Forest lbrvestirg                - Production and
based Reforestation   and Industry                brketing
- SDiI Consvation
- Weeping



- 69 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Chart 2
Organization of the Ministry of Regional
Administration and Local Government
for Forestry Activities
Regiornal Camissioner                                                      Local Goverment Service Comlssloner
| Roolonal Natural Aesurces Offlcer|
District Executive Directo
Regional         Regionall
Forest           Beelkeeping                                                             District Natural
Officer          Officer                                                                 Resouces Officer
|District Forest|                Ditrc
Off icer                       Of |e
Regional ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Di foe 04velpmen                     Off coer
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
dOvsoa Forest Off i er|



-70-
Annex 4
age I of 4
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
FIOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Coordination Terms of Reference
PROJECT COORDINATOR
Terms of Reference
Position:           Project Coordinator
ULojatQfl:          Dar es Salaam
DulatiQo:           One year, with possible extension
Ollualifications:   A university degree and background in project administration and
management. Minimum five years working experience. Familiarity with the
administration of World Bank funded projects and with forestry would be an
advantage.
DuLties and
BMnsabilifie:       A Project Coordinator will be appointed by the MTNRE to work under the
Permanent Secretary. The Project Coordinator will collaborate with all
relevant individuals and be responsible for overall administration of project
activities falling under the MTNRE. He/she will also be responsible for
coordinating the work under the natural resources monitoring and forest policy
component. His/her specific duties and responsibilities will include;
(i)     undertaking, together with the two Deputy Project Coordinators, secretariat
tasks of the PCC;
(ii)     preparing the Plan of Operation for the project;
(iii)    managing project's MTNRE related budget and finances, maintaining
accounts, and managing all assets in accordance with project guidelines;
(iv)     ensuring, through a procurement officer or hired procurement service, that
inputs financed by the project for activities falling under the responsibility of
MTNRE are obtained when planned and in accordance with IDA guidelines;
(v)      coordinating all relevant activities to help ensure timely execution in order to
avoid unnecessary overlaps and duplications;



- 71 -
Annex
Page 2 of 4
Appendix 1
(vi)     liaising with relevant sections of the FBD and the regions to oversee the
implementation of project administrative functions;
(vii)     organizing the establishment of a project monitoring system to facilitate
effective management and &upervision at various levels;
(viii)     preparing semi-annual and annual progress reports for submission to the PCC;
(ix)      collaborating with the DPC for the land policy and institutions component in
organizing independent monitoring studies related to village demarcation and
titling;
(x)      coordinating and arranging study tours, advance training and general
manpower development for project staff involved in forestry related activities;
(xi)      coordinating consultancies and other special studies to support relevant parts
of the project;
(xii)     maintaining close liaison with the World Bank.



-72 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
Appendix 2
TANZANIA
FEOREST RESOURCES MANAG13MENT PROECT
DEPLrITY P'ROJECT COORDIAO
flAD POLCIES AND INSTI=TlONS COMPNENT)
Terms of Reference
Dar es Salaam
Durabon:            One year, with possible extension
Oualifications:    A university degree and background in project administration and
management. Minimum five years working experience. Familiarity with the
administration of World Bank funded projects and with land survey and
tenurial aspects would be an advantage.
Duties and
Responsibili6ffi:  A Deputy Project Coordinator (DPC) will be appointed by the MLHUD to
work under the Director, Surveying and Mapping Division. The DPC, with a
close link to the PC, will support NVDPC and the Commissioner of Lands,
and will manage the project budget for the land policy and institutions
component, and coordinate and monitor the implementation of component
activities. His/her specific duties and responsibilities will include;
(i)     undertaking, together with the Project Coordinator and the DPC for the
natural resources monitoring and forest policy component, secretariat tasks of
the PCC;
(ii)    assisting the PC in preparing the Plan of Operation for the project,
particularly the part related to the land policy and institutions component;
(iii) managing the budget and finances for the component, maintaining accounts,
and managing all assets in accordance with project guidelines;
(iv)     ensuring, through a procurement officer or hired procurement service, that
inputs financed by the project for the component are obtained when planned
and in accordance with IDA guidelines;
(v)     coordinating component activities to help ensure timely execution in order to
avoid unnecessary overlaps and duplications;
(vi)     liaising with relevant divisions of the MLHUD and the regions to oversee the
implementation of component's administrative functions;



- 73 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
Appendix 2
(vii)     monitoring the implementation of component activities;
(viii)     preparing relevant parts of annual and semi-annual project progress reports;
(ix)      collaborating with the PC in organizing independent monitoring studies related
to village demarcation and titling;
(x)      coordinating .onsultancies and other special studies to support component; and
(xi)      maintaining close liaison with the World Bank.



-74 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 22
Appendix I
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Component I - Terms of Reference
NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE-LEVEL LAND USE
AND NATURAL RESOURCE MAPPING
Background
Mcreasing population and expanding agricultural practices are subjecting forest
resources in Tan.,ania to stress and causing rapid deforestation in many regions of the
country. Large ireas of forest lands are being converted to agricultural land uses, and forest
products are beirtg extracted to meet the increasing energy demands for fuelwood. The extent
of remaining forest and the rate at which forest lands are being converted are not known with
any degree of certainty. Within the TFAP, the government is attempting to address issues of
sustainable development and resource management and to prepare strategies to combat
problems of environmental degradation. To accomplish these objectives, there is a need for
reliable infcnmawin about the current extent and condition of the forest resources and for an
w essment of recent land use changes. These information requirements should fit within the
framework of a national program for resource and environmental information. The
Goverment of Tanzania has requested support from The World Bank under the Forest
Resource Management Project to develop an information base for forest resources and other
land uses.
Obiecives
The purpose of the reconnaissance level resource and land use mapping will
be i) to pnovide country-wide baseline forest resource information regarding forest area and
forest types, ii) to provide baseline informaticon about other land uses, particularly agriculture,
iii) to facilitate an assessment of natural resource and land use changes over time, relating the
changes to possible causes, and iv) to develop the framework for regular national forest
resource monitoring.
Methodology and Outputs
Maps showing a reconnaisance level inventory of forest cover and other land
uses will be prepared, addressing the immediate needs at a national and regional level for
information defining how much forest cover still exists, where the forest resources occur,
where agricultural activities are encroaching on forest reserves, and what the relationship is
between population distribution and resource supplies. The mapping and inventory will be
based on satellite image interpretation, appropriate to produce 1:250,000 scale maps. The
image interpretation must be corroborated with sufficient field sampling and ground "truthing"



- 75 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 22
Appendix 1
to enable reliable classification of forest cover and agricultural land use. Specifically the
activity will include:
(i)     The mapping exercise will cover the entire country and will coincide
with the existing 1:250,000 series topographic maps of the country.
The 1:250,000 National Series of maps in Tanzania covers the country
in 64 sheets, nearly one quarter of which are less than full sheets with
areas over water and neighboring country land masses.
(ii)     The maps should show the distribution of forest and agricultural land
use according to a classification system agreed upon with the
Government of Tanzania and the World Bank. The IRA will be
responsible for developing a draft of the classification system in
conjunction with the Fi3D, SMD, MALD, and NEMC. The
information should be obtained from recent satellite data augmented
with sufficient ground information to validate the image interpretation.
For some areas of the country, recent, high resolution satellite
imagery and aerial photography have been obtained for detailed
resource analysis of portions of the country. This may be useful to
assist with the interpretation work. As a minimum, the maps should
include information on:
-     Forest types (distinguishing between major forest types, e.g.,
high forests, mangroves, woodlands, plantations; identification
of dominant species)
-     Forest densities based on crown cover (e.g., high, medium,
and low density)
-     Designated areas (including forest reserves, national parks,
game reserves, conservation areas, and public forest lands)
-     Agriculture (distinguishing major agricultural activities)
-     Range and grasslands
-     Infrastructure (roads, railroads, urban centers-villages, towns,
cities)
-     Administrative boundaries (national, regional, and district)
-     Surface hydrology
(iii)     The maps should be printed with the thematic information in color on
a mosaiced, monochrome satellite image background. Each map sheet
should include a legend describing the classification system, a
geographic referencing system similar to that used in the standard
National series, and other reference data (scale, map showing location
of each ,. eet relative to the entire country, and identification of
satellite inages used in the mosaic). Five hundred (500) copies of
each map sheet should be produced and delivered to IRA (or another
agency which may be defined at the time).



- 76 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 22
Appendix 1
(iv)     A data dictionary should be prepared which describes in detail what is
included in each of the map classes. This should be graphically
illustrated as appropriate.
(iv)     Area statistics should be provided for each of the land use categories
used in the 1:250,000 scale classification system. These statistics
should be summarized by administrative areas (nation, regions, and
districts) and presented in report form (minimum 50 copies).
(v)      Local staff from relevant agencies should be used to the extent
possible for field work, data analysis, and image interpretation.
(vi)     A copy of the digital imagery (i.e., CCTs or other suitable media)
used in the analysis of land cover should be delivered to the IRA.
Consultants will be responsible for identifying and procuring all required
imagery, making logistical arrangements for in-country field work, and organizing the work
flow from data collection to map production. It is estimated that the exercise can be
completed within two years, allowing for ihe acquisition of cloud free satellite imagery and
field work during the non-rainy seasons of the year.
Organization
The land-use and resource mapping activity will include information about
parameters in addition to the forest resources; therefore, it will be directed on behalf of the
Government of Tanzania by the Institute for Resource Assessment (IRA). The Inventory
Section of Forestry and Beekeeping Division (FBD), the Survey and Mapping Division
(SMD), the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MALD), and the National
Environmental Management Council (NEMC) will be directly involved with the development
of a classification system for the baseline mapping. The IRA will be responsible for
coordinating the relevant agencies, together with the contractor, to finalize the classification
system and to test its feasibility.



- 77 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 22
Appendix 2
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
RESOURCE INFORMATION SPECIALIST
Terms of Reference
Position:           Resource Information Specialist
Location:           Dar es Salaam
Duration:           12 months
Qualification:      A background in resource information managemeit, geography,
geographic information systems, and resource assessments; at least
five years working experience with micro computer related
technologies for data processing, data base management, and word
processing; developing country experience a definite asset.
D)uties and
Responsibilities:   The resource information specialist will act as advisor to the Director
of the Institute of Resource Assessment. The resource information
specialist will assist the Director of the Institute of Resource
Assessment in strengthening the National Resource Information Center
to support resource assessment, environmental monitoring, and land
management activities in Tanzania. The resource information
specialist will also liase and coordinate with other developers and
users of resource and environmental information in an attempt to
establish a national resource and environmental information program
in Tanzania. The activity should he guided by the framework of the
African Environmental Information System Program established by the
World Bank.
The consultant will:
i)    Review the data needs and information management issues related to
resource assessment, land management, and environmental
monitoring;
ii)   Identify the resource data producers and the information users at the
national and regional levels;
iii)   Facilitate and encourage dialogue among those agencies involved in
resource information activities to develop a coordinated national



- 78 -
Annex 5
Page S of 22
Appendix 2
program. These agencies should include, among others, NEMC, NLUPC, IRA, FBD,
MALD, S&M Dept., NatiGnal Planning Commission, U. of Dar Library.
iv)    Organize a workshop(s) of resource and envirommental information
producers and users to discuss issues of resource information in
support of decision-making processes. This activity should consider
inter-agency coordination and cooperation, information and technical
standards, coordinating donor support, etc.;
v)    Define the specific technical requirements to support the database and
information management activities of the Natural Reiource
Information Center at IRA, and advise on and assist with the
selection, acquisition, and implementation of the equipment, systems,
and materials;
vi)   Prepare a staffing plan for the National Resource Information Center
and prepare position descriptions for staff;
vii)   Define priority training needs in areas of resource information
management and recommend specific training programs;
viii   Provide basic training to Center staff in the use of computer
technology for data base management, data processing, and word
processing;
ix)    Establish procedures for the collection, storage, and management of
land use and resource related data and information. This will include
identifying procedures for supporting and interacting with the users of
the information;
x)    Develop relevant pilot applications to demonstrate the application of
resource information and geographic information system technologies
for resource planning, management, and monitoring.



- 79 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 22
Appendix 3
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPROVEMENT AND MONITORING OF ROYALTY COLLECTION SYSTEMS
Terma of Reference
Background
The study of the revenue collection system undertaken during preparation of
this project identified a number of problems limiting the effectiveness of the system. A
number of recommendations were made by the study, and this activity is geared towards
implementing several of these recommendations. In particular: (i) The revenue collection
study found that reliable data are not available on the revenue collected from forestry
products. At present it is difficult to obtain useful information on the principal sources of
revenues raisfd by region, forest type (e.g., plantations, Goverwment reserves, Public Lands),
or forest product (e.g., timber, charcoal, poles). The reports that are produced generally
contain highly aggregated revenue information. (ii) The study identified the major flaws in the
present revenue collection system and made a number of recommendations in order to
improve the system. (iii) The study pointed out the importance of looking into the tobacco
industry. The d^a on the amount of wood consumed annually in tobacco farming is sketchy
and unreliable. A rough estimate provided by the Tobacco Processing and Marketing Board
(IPMB), suggests that about 400,000 m3 of fuelwood is consumed annually by tobacco
farmers; this excludes the volume of timber lost to burning in land clearing. No fee is
charged for this wood, despite the fact that the Forest Ordinance states that a fee should be
paid on all wood used in "any trade, industry or commercial undertaking".
Objectives
The objective of this subcomponent is to provide GoT with more cost-effective
options for the collection of royalties by (i) setting up a data base and designing a new
revenue reporting system; (ii) pilot testing some changes in the revenue collection system in
Mwanza and Tabora regions and in twu other regions to be identified during the developmer.t
of the forest revenue reporting system; and (iii) examining the need for and feasibility of
charging woodfuel fees for tobacco production.
Methodology and Outputs
The project involves four linked activities to address the problems in the forest
revenue collection system:
1. Development of a forest revenue reporting and monitoring system to
enable Government to selectively introduce some of the recommendations for an improved
forest revenue collection system and to more effectively monitor forest revenues in order to
better identify emerging collection problems. A data base will be set up containing



- 80 -
Annex S
Page 7 of 22
Appendix 3
information on how much forest revenue is being collected, on what products, and in which
locations. Specifically, data will be collected on: (i) how much forest revenue is being raised
by each region and by each district within each region; (ii) revenue contributions according to
type of forest (e.g., plantation, Central and Local Government Reserve and Public Land) by
region; (iii) revenue contributions by product (e.g., timber, charcoal, poles) by region; and
(iv) revenues raised by each district in the four most important revenue raising regions, again
showing amounts raised by forest type and by product type. Any significant gaps in available
information will be filled by field work. The intention is not only to compile as complete a
picture of the prevailing situation as possible, but also to gain better insight into to the
problems to be overcome in designing a new reporting system. A simple and cost-effective
system of revenue reporting that will attempt to avoid lengthy and cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures will be designed.
2. Pilot implementation of a revised forest revenue collection system to
improve the performance of the present forest revenue collection system in controlling the
harvest of natural forest products and in raising revenue and to test, by way of
implementation, some recommended changes to the present collection system. A detailed plan
for each district participating in the pilot phase will be developed. Specifically, the detailed
design for each district will require: (i) identification of the main (potential and actual) areas
of wood production and (ii) identification of the most appropriate locations for all checkpoints
and fee collection points. A detailed manpower assessment, covering all forestry and revenue
collection staff, will also be made with a view to determining both training needs and the
most cost-efficient staffing deployment. Simple and basic administrative and financial
management training courses for all foresters and other district and village officials to be
involved in revenue collection will be designed and executed.
3. Feasibility assessment for the collection of fees from fuelwood used for
tobacco curing to gain reliable information on how much fuelwood is actually consumed by
tobacco farmers and determine the practicality 0f collecting a fee on wood consumed in
tobacco drying. Precise estimates of the amounts of fuelwood used and the social benefits and
costs of tobacco production, and recommendations on whether cost-effective mechanisms for
charging a fee should be introduced. The assessment will include: (i) determination of the
scope of the tobacco farming industry, including both the area covered and the number of
farmers involved; (ii) review of the structure of the farming industry, including the way
farmers are organized both with regard to production and also to marketing; (iii) review of
the curing/drying technologies used; (iv) assessment of how much fuelwood is being
consumed both with regard to the individual technologies used and in total; (v) identification
of the practical problems associated with charging a fee for fuelwood consumed; (vi)
recommendations on who should pay a fee and who should collect.
4. A mid-term evaluation to evaluate the success of the new revenue
reporting system in enabling Government to more effectively monitor forest revenue
collections and the success of the revisions made to the forest revenue collection system in the
pilot regions in controlling the harvest of natural forests and raising additional revenue, and to
expand the new system, modified as necessary, to all regions. A brief review of how the new
reorting system is working and what use is being made of the information generated will be



- 81 -
Annex 5
Page 8 f22
Appendix 3
made. An assessment of the appropriateness and success of the administrative and financial
management training courses introduced during the pilot phase for foresters, village and
district officials will also be made. Specifically an assessment of the impact of the new
collection procedures on revenue collected in the four pilot regions will be made by: (i)
comparing both the "before and after" collection performance within the pilot regions, and
also the performance of the pilot regions relative to other regions; (ii) determining and
comparing the cost:benefit ratio of the new versus the old collection system; and (iii)
assessing the performance of each change introduced under the new system (including, intr
ali, an assessement of their practicality and acceptability). A detailed plan for expansion will
include: (i) identification of the main (potential and actual) areas of wood production, and (ii)
identification of the most appropriate locations for all checkpoints and fee collection points.
lnlluts
To ensure that the necessary links are made among the various activities, it is
expected that one internationally recruited consultant will be used for the dura:ion of the
project for a total of 18 person-months as follows: 3 person-months in Year 1, 3 person-
months in Year 2, and 2 person-months in Year 3 for reporting; 3 person-months in Year 1
and 3 person-months in Year 2 for the pilot implementation; 2 person-months in Year 2 for
the tobacco study; and 2 person-months in Year 3 for the mid-term review. The consultant
should have a degree in economics and experience with dry-land forestry projects. He/she
should be familiar tpreferably by way of direct work experience) with forest revenue systems.
Previous work experience in Africa, preferably in Tanzania, would be an advantage.
A second internationally recruited consultant will be needed for 1 person-
month in Year 2 to assess the feasibility of the collection of fees from fuelwood used for
tobacco curing. The consultant should be an agricultural economist, with knowledge or
previous experience with tobacco farming. Work experience in Africa would be desirable.
Locally recruited consultants will be needed for a total of 20 person-months
broken down as follows: 3 person-months in Year 1, 3 person-months in Year 2, and 3
person-months in Year 3 for reporting; 3 person-months in Year 1 and 3 person-months in
Year 2 for the pilot implementation; 3 person-months in Year 2 for the tobacco study; and 2
person-months in Year 3 for the mid-term review. Experience of local government finance
accounting would be an advarttage, as would some experience in forestry.
To facilitate the work under this subcomponent, the project will finance the
purchase of a four-wheel and operating costs (including the costs of one incremental driver).
The vehicle will be the tesponsibility of the Project Coordinator and will be used for all
project activities managed by FBD, not just revenue collection. Assuming Government
accepnce, all village, ward, and divional forest officers involved in revenue collection in
districts supported by the project will be issued bicycles. Safety deposit/strong boxes will be
installed at various sites (to be selected as part of the detailed plan for each district).
Assuming on average 4 such boxes will be required per district, and further assuming a total
of 16 districts for the pilot phase, a total of 64 boxes will be required. Certain civil works



- 82 -
Annex S
Pagre 9 of 22
Appendix 3
for revenue collection also will be provided. Some training expenses will be covered,
including handbooks (explaining duties and procedures), other relevant stationery/office
material, and forest service uniforms. Per diems and travel expenses of forestry officials
attending training sessions will be covered by project funds. Detailed cost estimates will need
to be prepared of the proposed implementation of the revised collection system in all
expansion regions. Details of the full requirements of the expansion phase will be determined
at the time of the evaluation of the pilot phase. A lump sum, (based on an increase over the
amount budgeted for the pilot phase that is proportional to the increase in number of regions
to be covered), will be provided to cover equipment, civil works, training and miscellaneous
cost items likely to be incurred at expansion.
Organization
The Head of the Marvest Section of FBD will be responsible for the
implementation of the activities under this subcomponent. The internationally recruited
consultant will be assisted in his/her work by senior FBD foresters familiar with both revenue
collection issues and current administrative procedures (as they relate to the issuance of
licenses and permits). The consultant will work directly under the Project Coordinator. The
detailed design of the pilot phase will require close collaboration with regional, district and
village governments. The consultant for the tobaceo study will be assisted by a senior
forester with previous experience in either Iringa or Tabora regions. The locally recruited
consultants will work directly under the Project Coordinator.



- 83 -
Annex 5
Page 10 of 22
Appendix 4
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
REVENUE COLLECTION STUDY: MAIN RESULTS
A study of the revenue collection system undertaken during preparation of this
project shows that the current forest revenue collection system fails to: (i) prevent much of the
natural forest's products from being obtained for commercial purposes for free; (ii) encourage
efficient harvesting practices; and (iii) raise much revenue.
Three main factors are identified to explain the poor performance of the
present collection system. First, there are too many layers of Government laying claim to a
right to impose a fee on forest products. Hence, often multiple fees apply to a single product.
For example, on a bag of charcoal, one fee may be levied on behalf of FBD/Treasury,
another on behalf of the district government and another for the village council. It is difficult
to find an economic rationale for the sum of such fees on a single product. In addition, the
imposition of these various fees encourages attempts at evasion.
The second main problem is that the conitrol procedures applied to the system
of licenses and permits, by which fees are collected, are cumbersome; this invites both user
and administrator to seek ways to short-circuit the system. Compliance with the system is
often time-consuming, the opportunities to evade are obvious and, as there is almost total
absence of secondary checking, the risk of being caught is negligible. Moreover, even when
offenders are caught, the scale of penalties allowed by the law provides little deterrent.
Third, there is an administrative problem: the regional and district forest staff
on whom the revenue collection system depends are demoralized and the district officials in
charge of financially administering the system are for the most part lacking in adequate
training and supervision. The lack of morale among forest staff is in part due to the effects of
decentralization, which makes regional and district foresters, together with all foresters under
them, answerable to regional and district governments respectively rather than to FBD, and in
part due to their poor pay and the general lack of means to do their job properly.
The study undertaken during project preparation makes a number of
recommendations. To address the problem of competing claims to forest fees and of multiple
fees per product, the study recemmends, inter alia:
(i)     establish the primary point of collection at the village level; and
(ii)     establish a system of revenue sharing for forest revenues, allocating
revenues according to some formula among village, district, regional
and central governments.
To address the problem of weak control procedures, the key recommendations
are:



- 84-
Annex 5
Page 11 of 22
Appendix 4
(i)      simp!lfy the licensing procedures by: redesigning the license form to
make it less unweildy; empowering other foresters, in addition to
DFOs, to issue timber licenses; establishing the point of fee collection
at the village level; and applying the licensing system to timber only,
with all other wood products (charcoal, poles and firewood) being
administered according to the collection permit system;
(ii)     simplify the collection permit system by designing a permit form that
is separate from the receipt issued for fees paid and, as with licenses,
by establishing the point of fee collection at the village level;
(iii)     strengthen the system's checks by: introducing compulsory
checkpoints (nW road blocks) both close to the point of production and
also at major transportation loading and unloading points; cancelling
completed licenses and permits; marking licensed trees both before
and after felling; and making compulsory the maintenance of proper
stock records by wood dealers;
(vi)      close the loophole that presently exists with regard to sawn timber by
taxing it separately; since a license would still be required for felling
the tree(s) from which the sawn timber would derive, a reimbursement
system would need to apply in order to avoid double taxing the
timber;
(v)      rationalize the division of responsibilities by making foresters
responsible for issuing licenses and permits, but make other agents
responsible for the collection and handling of the fees; and
(vi)      encourage compliance through the introduction of a greatly increased
scale of penalties; in the case of timber licenses, by setting the fee due
on Part 1 higher than the total fee expected to be due on completion of
Part 2; and by more rigorously enforcing the auditing of all forest
revenue accounts.
To address the administrative problem, the main recommendations are:
(i)      define responsibilities (a) more rationally, by making foresters
responsible for the technical aspects of harvesting, (e.g., the issue of
licenses and/or permits) but other village and/or district officials (e.g.,
accounting or financial officers) responsible for receiving and handling
revenues, and (b) more clearly, by issuing all foresters with a
handbook giving details of duties and procedures; and
(ii)     improve training of all involved in the revenue collection process and
boost the morale of foresters by giving them the means to do their job
(e.g., issue all with some means of transportation, even if only
bicycles), and by promoting a service identity by providing all
foresters with a uniform.



- 85 -
Annex 5
Pae 1z of 22
Appendix 5
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1DENTFIFCATION OF BEST PRACTICES FOR FOREST ACTIVITIES
Terms of Reference
Background
Tbis study will be used to identify: (i) village afforestation approaches which
enable equity in distribution of benefits, effectiveness, and efficiency in delivery; (ii) the
extent of support currently available for community-based natural forest and woodland
management; (iii) best approaches for the management of natural forest reserves, in view of
the attainment of their assigned function(s); and (iv) significance of the impact that the
projects are making on the strengthening of Regional and District Forestry Services.
In Tanzania, setting aside forest reserves dates back to the 1890s. At first,
forests were gazetted as reserves for mainly protective purposes, the aim being to ensure
climatic stability around important agricultural crop areas by maintaining the surrounding tree
cover. Later, gazetting was extended to cover the establisment of forest reserves for
production purposes. Presently there are about 540 forest reserves throughout the country
with an estimated total area of 13 million ha. Forest reserves range in size from 10 to nearly
70,000 ha.
With respect to management responsibility, two categories of forest reserves
are relevant: (i) Central Government Reserves and (ii) Local Government Reserves. Central
Government Forest Reserves represent the main forest resource managed by the FBD on
behalf of the Government. All revenue collected from such reserves is the property of
Central Government and goes to the Treasury. Local Government Reserves are managed by
the districts, and the revenue raised is retained within the respective district. In addition to
the forest reserves, there are also a number of national parks, game reserves and game
controlled areas, all falling under the management of the Wildlife Division.
Presently there are some donor-supported projects involving forest reserve
management. All of these projects are confined to catchment forests in various watersheds
where the primary management objective is protection. Very little is done for the
management of other catchment forests and lowland forest reserves that are being managed by
the FBD and the districts. None of these reserves has any management plans prescribing
appropriate management actions.
Management of forest reserves, both by the FBD and the districts, is carried
out on an hoc basis. The main management activities include protection against
encroachment, grazing, fire and illegal utilization; control of permitted production; and some



- 86 -
Annex 5
Page 13 of 22
Appendix 5
boundary demarcation. All of these activities ar( done on a limited scale and with
insignificant impact on the sustainability of the reserves, as is apparent by the fact that
deforestation in Tanzania is growing at an alarming rate.
The systematic promotion of "village forestry" in Tanzania began in 1967-68
following Independence, at the same time as the introduction of policies of villagization and
Village based development towards self-sufficiency. These policies were reinforced by the
villages and Ujamaa Villages Act of 1975. In 1980-81, village forestry received a major
boost from the six-month "Forests are Wealth" mass-media campaign launched in 8 priority
regions. In 1981, the forest policy of 1953 was revised to give priority to rural afforestation.
At that time there was a growing concern that a communal approach to afforestation was not
meeting with widespread success. Since then a greater emphasis has been given to small
group initiatives as well as individual planting.
CFS and SIDA, and a number of other donors and NGOs have been focusing
on development of social forestry through rapidly expanding programs. At present, there are
some projects that are either solely or partly involved in village afforestation schemes. Each
project employs its own approach for implementation, and the achievements vary
significantly. All of them have accumulated valuable experiences which could be useful in
designing new programs.
Qbjectives
The objective of the study is to analyze different approaches used in the
execution of relevant forestry projects being implemented by different donors and NGOs, as
well as by the Government.
Methodolof and Outputs
The study will be undertaken in three successive stages.
1. Study Design and Programming:
- listing all relevant forestry projects and categorizing them according to (i)
geographical location, (ii) implementing agency, and (iii) major activities
undertaken;
- designing a sample survey containing a sufficient number of representative
projects from each category;
- preparing survey guidelines which would provide for comparing project
execution with the stated objectives and goals. Aspects to be looked at would
include:



- 87 -
Anmex 
Page 14 of 22
Appendix 5
- for village reforestation activity: (i) nursery establishment and seedling
production, (ii) trees planted in woodlots, compounds, boundaries, cropland
etc. (iii) employed extension approach. (iv) performance indicators (social,
economic, environmental), (v) target groups, (vi) satisfaction of needs
(energy, income, protection), (vii) incorporation of tenure, righits, access and
control of planted stock, (viii) educational impact, (ix) success in dealing with
prejudice, if any, with regard to tree planting and planting of certain tree
species, (x) links established with the local as well as Regional and Central
Forest Administration, and (xi) activity's sustainability.
- for community-based woodland management activity: (i) degree and type of
support, (ii) selectivity in location and group targeting, (iii) constraints and
opportunities, (iv) basis for initiative, (v) degree of conflict, if any, (vi)
integration with other land uses and/or afforestation activity, and (vii)
activity's sustainability.
- for natural forest reserve management activity: (i) existence of management
plan, (ii) silvicultural treatment, (iii) boundary demarcation and maintenance,
(iv) encroachment, (v) animal grazing, (vi) fire protection, (vii) licensee
control, (viii) illigal felling, (ix) control and supervision of non-wood product
harvest and Forest Reserve's sustainability.
- for strenthening forestry services: (i) level of project's integration into the
Forest Service's set up, (ii) inputs provided by the project for institutional
strengthening (e.g., training), (iii) balance between project activity level and
the degree of Forest Services involvement, (iv) whether the project supports
the Forest Service in all its functions or biases it towards project activities,
and (v) sustainability of institutional improvement.
2. Field Visits for Data Collection and Observation:
3. Data Comnilation. Analysis and Evaluation: At this stage, the survey
team, based on field surveys and observations, will establish a set of criteria under which the
data analysis and evaluation will proceed for identifying best activity approaches employed by
forestry projects. Provision, by the established criteria, will be given to the assessment of
activity's; (i) sustainability, (ii) social effect, (iii) environmental impact, and (iv) cost
effectiveness.
Stamng nnd Duration
The study will be undertaken by a group of Tanzanian experts (12 person-
months), supported by short-term expatriate consultants (4 person-months). The Tanzanian
group will include experts on forest management, silviculture, and community forestry and
forestry extension. Two short-term specialists; one sociologist and one forester with forest
management and forestry extension experience, will be provided to support the Tanzanian



- 88 -
Annex 5
Page 15 of 22
Appendix 5
team in survey design and analysis. The study will require a total of 3 months, with the first
month for design and programming, the second month for field visits, and the last for analysis
and evaluation. The expatriate specialists each will have two months, broken into two
periods, in order to cover the first and the last stages of the study.



- 89 -
Annex 
Page l6 of 22
Appendix 6
TANZANA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LONG-TERM FINANCING OF FORESTRY
Terms of Reference
1.           Background
By officially endorsing the TFAP, Government has given priority to the
forestry subsector at a time when it is reviewing its public sector management with a view to
ensuring consistent medium-and long- term budgetary financing. The appraisal mission of the
Project discussed with Goverment in October 1990 issues related to the "Global Viability of
the TFAP". These discussions were summarized in the Aide-Memoire as follows:
Sustainability: A large number of forestry projects are beimg executed under
the umbrella of TFAP, many with substantial donor support. Most of thi.;e projects include
an investment component producing heavy requirements for recurrent expenditures. Many of
the existing donor-supported projects include financing for a large part of the recurrent costs
from donor sources, with counterpart funds coming from government. In order to ascertain
the long-term sustainability of the efforts put into the subsector as a whole (as opposed to on a
project-by-project basis), there is a need to establish what the recurrent cost implications of
the program as a whole are. This is needed to allow Government to develop in a consistent
way its long term financial planning, specifically setting aside the funds which will be needed
to sustain the subsectoral effort.
Official endorsement of the TFAP implies that Government has assigned
forestry a priority status. Outside the areas receiving donor support, however, the forestry
subsector is weakened by lack of funding. Recurrent costs for forestry activities at the district
level are entirely funded by local govermment revenues and these have fallen substantially in
recent years. It is apparent that, if effective priority is to be given to forestry, it will have to
enjoy a similar treatment to that given to the four priority sectors (health, education, roads
and water) which receive support from central government for their recurrent expenditures in
the districts.
Replicability: Many projects in forestry include a large input of highly
qualified people Oocal graduates and/or foreign experts). The need for these inputs is
justified for each project either in terms of the sophistication required for the implementation
to obtain results in a difficult context, or in terms of the development of a "pilot scheme". In
relation to its neighboring countries, Tanzania enjoys a wealth of highly qualified personnel in
the forestry subsector, but the great demands put on these personnel by existing projects
implies that in the short and medium term, these projects cannot be replicated on a national
scale. Government should review carefully the priority of its projects, assessing the
alternative potential use of their skilled personnel.



90 -
Annex 5
Page 17 of 22
Appendix 6
FBD, with support of Finnida consultants attempted to obtain data on project
costs by circulating a questi-innaire to all project managers of existing projects. The
questionnaire was circulated in December and as of February 1, no responses have been
obtained. In consequence, FBD proposes to follow up on the previous attempt with direct
interviews with the project managers of the main projects in the field. As there already exists
a database system created by FBD and the Finnida consultants, a similar questionnaire will be
used to make both efforts complementary.
2.            Objectives of the Study:
The main objective of this study is to develop a long-term financial plan for
the forestry subsector. For this it is necessary to establish the medium term recurrent cost
implications of the existing (and planned) investment activities in forestry. As a secondary
objective, the exercise will provide data on the existing allocation of skilled forestry
manpower to assess the replicability of the existing donor-funded projects.
3.            Procedures of the Study:
Logistics: The study will begin with a test of the draft questionnaire, will
collect the required data and a report will be produced. A list of the financially most
important projects was established on the basis of Table 3 of Annex 2 and the "Work
Program for Implementation of Donor Assisted Projects" of January 1991. Based on this list,
the larger projects were selected to be visited for interview. Additional smaller projects
which are located on route to the larger projects were then added to the list. A total of 19
projects have been selected; the estimated total foreign investment in these projects is 5.2
billion Tsh (according to ehe TFAP document). This amounts to 88% of estimated total
foreign investment in the subsector.
For logistical purposes, projects have been grouped into three groups
according to the way they can be reached: (i) in Dar-s-Salaam; (ii) at a short distance from
Dar-es-Salaam; and kiii) requiring distant travel. For the projects requiring distant travel two
routes have been planned, one in the south and another in the north of the country. The list
of projects selected classified as described is attached. The estimated days required to visit
the projects and collect the information is as follows:
Initial logistics and testing of questionnaire  5
Data collection in Dar-es-Salaam               4
Data collection at short distance               3
Data collection in route "A"                    8
Data collection in route "B'                   6
Data Inputing                                   3
Analysis and Report writing                    10
Contingencies (15% of the above)               6
TOTAL MAN DAYS                                45



-91-
Annex 5
Page 18 of 22
Appendix 6
As two people will be simultaneously doing the job (working independently
during at least part of the time) it is expected that the field work will be carried out in 30-40
days.
4.            The Rpo: The report will provide a brief description of the project
location, objectives and outputs and the main activities related to forestry/land husbandry. It
will identify the financing and executing agencies. The emphasis of the report will be on
sustainability; for this purpose the f","cwing data will be collected and analyzed: (i) total
project costs; (ii) donor/government contributions; (iii) recurrent cost component of total costs
(dividing the current split between donors and Government); (iv) expected duration of the
activities (this wil' normally exceed the duration of the project); and (v) demands on skilled
manpower.
The report will estimate the projected needs for recurrent expenditures in
1991, 1995 and 2000. Different alternatives for the financing of the subsector will be
examined and recommendations made. One alternative is for central government to give
support to the districts for recurrent expenditures in the forestry subsector as it does for the
health, education, roads and water sectors.
As the main emphasis will be on an estimation of recurrent costs (including
salaries and others paid by Government), great care will be given to estimating these costs.
Donors, project managers and Government often classify items of recurrent costs as
investment costs. To avoid the is confusion, emphasis will be placed during the interviews on
establishing the real recurrent component of the total costs. In addition, the questionnaire will
include a section which explicitly will ask about the use of personnel, vehicles and other
operating items in physical terms. These data will be used in the report to check the
consistency of the data.
5.            Staffing and Duration:
The study will be carried out by an international consultant (4 person-months)
local consultants (6 person-months), and an official from the planning unit of FBD working
under the supervision of the Director of FBD and in strong collaboration with the treasury.
Use of the vehicle provided for FBD for studies will also be required.



- 92 -
Page 19 of 22
Appendix 6
Tentative List of Projects to be Surveyed (to be adjusted at time of the survey)
A. In Dar-es-Salaam
- Mengrove Forest Development
- Catchment Forestry
- USAID Wildlife
- Wood Industries
- Community Forestry Section
- Forest Resource Management Project/World Bank
B. Short Travel
- UNDP Coast Project
- Sokoine Univevsity
- National Forest Tree Seed Program
- Tanzania Forestry Research Institute
C. Distant Travel: Route "A'
- Iringa Soil and Water Conservation
- Mbeya
- Rukwa - Integrated Rural Development
- Sao Hill Sawmill
- Sao Hill Project
D. Distant Travel: Route "B"
- Hai Afforestation
- Assistance to National Soil Service
- Wood Industries
- Zonal Forest Management Office
- TIRDEP



- 93 -
Annex S
Page 20 of 2
Appendix 7
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF THE NATURAL RESOURCE INFORMATION CENTER
In addition to the land services institutions described in the text, there are
several institutions in the country that would become users of the resource information
capabilities created by the Project. These institutions include all ministries represented in the
National Committee for Natural Resource Information, namely MTNRE, MLHUD, Ministry
of Agriculture, Ministry of Water and the Ministry of Transport (para 4.02 in the main text).
Some of the users also have the potential to establish resource information, management and
a; alysis capabilities. In fact, some of these agencies have already begun initiatives to develop
resource and environmental information systems, although these efforts have been less
successful than those of the IRA. Below, two alternative locations for the Natural Resource
Information Center which were considered during project preparation are described and the
reasons for locating the Natural Resource Information Center at IRA are explained.
National Land Use Planning! Comfmission (NLUPC)
The National Land Use Planning Commission was established in 1984 to
function as an advisory organ of the Government on all matters related to land use. The
Commission consists of a Chairman and from nine to thirteen members. Each member is
appointed for a three-year period. The Commission is headed by a Director General who acts
as the Secretary and the Chief Executive Officer of the Commission. The Commission does
not have its own regional staff; its mandate is to coordinate the land use planning activities of
existing staff in the regional government departments.
The NLUPC has three organizational divisions: (i) Physical Planning and
Research; (ii) Legal and Policy; and (iii) Administration and Finance. These Divisions have
not yet been fully staffed. The Physical Planning and Research Division has approximately
ten staff, in four units-regional physical planning; rural and urban land use coordination and
monitoring; research and data management; and cartography.
The Commission has not been operating effectively for several reasons. The
terms of office of Commission members expired in 1989, and updating membership took
some time and was not completed until July 1990. In the interim while there was no Board of
Directors for the Commission, staff action was severely constrained. Shortly after the new
Board of Directors was in place, the Director General resigned his post, and no replacement
has yet been appointed. It has also proved difficult to fill the staff positions for the various
specialists needed by the Commission due to lack of funding and lack of interest from other
institutions which have been approached to second staff. In addition, the respective roles of
the Commission and related Departments of the MLHUD remain to be clarified. As a result,
NLUPC has not been able to make much progress in establishing a resource information
center; and it may take some time before such a system, of the scope and scale needed in
Tanzania, could be established at NLUPC. The NLUPC has also assumed a marginal role in
the Government's efforts to develop a land policy.



-94 -
Annex 
Page 21 of 22
Appendix 7
Nadonal EnAironmental Manageent Coundl (NEMC)
Thw National Environmental Management Council was established as a
parastal organization in 1983 and became functional in 1986. Following the government
rer.tructuring in late 1990, the NEMC was transferred from the Ministry of Lands, Natural
Resources, and Tourism to the Ministiy of Tourism, Natural Resources, and Environment and
is closely associated with the new Environment Division. The NEMC was established 'to
plan, manage, coordinate and monitor all environmentally related activities in Tanzania'. The
main focus of NEMC's activities, at present, is to initiate, catalyze and coordinate
development activities, with an emphasis on an integrated approach to resource management.
The Council is managed by a Director General and governed by a Board of
Directors, which is currently chaired by the Director of the Institute for Resource Assessment.
The Council is organized with four Directorates: (i) Natural Resources; (ii) Research,
Environmental Education, and Documentation; (iii) Pollution Control; and (iv) Finance and
Administration. The NEMC has 15 higher level staff dealing with environmental matters.
The Natural Resources and Pollution Control Directorates were early to begin staffing
positions, but the Research, Education, and Documentation Director only began recruiting
staff in early 1990.
NEMC faced considerable opposition from other governrent agencies when it
was first formed; however, as awareness about environmental problems in Tanzania increases,
there are growing expectations of the Council's role. Donor interest in the Council is
increasing aLd is represented by support for various specific programs. However, the
institution is still weak, as shown by the difficulties it is facing in its main current task of
producing an Environmental Action Plan, despite strong support from SIDA and IUCN.
Donors have also provided training to two NEMC staff on geographic information system
technologies and applications and have provided the Council with a microcomputer-based
system, which was installed in June 1991.
Institute for Resource Assessment (IRA)
The Institute for Resource Assessment of the University of Dar es Salaam has
already made significant progress in establishing a center by collecting information, materials,
and eciuipment. The Institute has the professional capability to manage a modern resource
information system.
The Institute for Resource Assessment was established in 1982, having
evolved from the former Bureau of Resource Assessment and Land 'Jse Planning which was
originally established in 1967. The Institute is an autonomous nt._rdisciplinary research body,
responsible to the Chief Academic Officer of the University, and reporting directly to the
Senate. It is directed by an 18-person Board representing the university, government
ministries and parastatal organizations. It is managed by a competent director who has
formed a management team of the heads of the Institute's five research teams. The Institute



- 95 -
Annex 5
Page 22 of- 22
Appendix 7
collaborates with and does contract work for the governnent and for agencies, including the
World Bank. Its main objective is to undertake research projects relevant to the social,
environmental, and economic development of Tanzania. This work focusses on the fields of
agriculture, population and human settlements, regional planning, water development, and
environmental and natural resource monitoring.
The Institute has 31 professional level positions; however, only 17 of the
positions are flilled. These include staff with specializations in, inter alia, agricultural
development, regional physical planning, hydrology and water resources, geomorphology and
soils, demography, sociology, economics, ecology, and resource information management
technologies. In addition to this complement of professional staff, the Institute has 21
technical staff including cartographers, technicians, research assistants, and research
associates.
The Institute receives its funding from the university and from its contract
work. It also receives considerable technical support and assistance from a number of
bilateral agencies. It has, for example, a cooperative agreement with the Soil Survey and
Land Research Center (SSLRC) of the Crawford Institute of Technology in the UK. This
agreement will provide training, student exchanges, equipment, and technical assistance. It
has also signed agreements with several universities in Sweden and Norway to extend its
research and training network to other countries.
The Institute for Resource Assessment already has an extensive collection of
reference material, resource data, satellite imagery, and aerial photography as well as
equipment to assist in the interpretation and handling of this data. The information on hand
includes complete coverage of the country of early aerial photography, coverage of
approximately 15% of the country with recent SPOT satellite information, and hundreds of
maps, documents, and research reports. It has already begun to plan to expand the
information function and to establish a formal center.
The decision to house the Natural Resource Information Center at IRA was
taken after extensive consultation with authorities in the MTNRE and the MLHUD and was
based on (i) the greater capacity demonstrated by IRA for this function, (ii) the need to avoid
an unnecessary duplication of equipment, material, and above all technical skills required to
manage such a center and (iii) the understanding of both ministries and IRA that the policies
and priorities guiding the Natural Resource Information Center would be established by the
users through the National Resource Information Committee.



- 96 -
Annex6
Page I of 6
Appendix I
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PRROJECT
Land Policies Study - Terms of Reference
LAND POLICI [ lUDY
Badcound
Government is in the process of preparing a new lands policy. In the rural
sector, prelimii'ary analysis has led to the identification of six key land policy issues requiring
further research: (i) land law, administrative process and access to natural resources; (ii)
land use planning; (iii) pastor>' land use and common property regimes; (iv) forest law and
tree management; (v) land mrkets; and (vi) land registration.
Land law. administrative process and access to natural resources. The
complex of acts, ordinances, and administrative practices regulating access to land and other
natural resources in Tanzania lacks coherence. On some issues of fundamental importance,
such as the status of customary rights in relation to village rights, the law is silent,
ambiguous, or contradicted by practice. Ambiguity in the law places great weight on
arbitrary administrative processes of land allocation that do not take adequate account of
existing patterns of use, customary rights, or land value, and hence do not ensure justice or
provide the predictability needed to foster good reseurce management or long-term
investment.
Lan use planning. Tanzania's Second National Five-Year Development Plan
(1988-89 to 1992-93) emphasizes the importance of land use planning at the village and zonal
level. Relatively little progress has been made towards this goal, however, due in part to a
lack of capacity and to ineffective coordination by the National Land Use Planning
Commission, but perhaps more importantly to the use of a "top down" approach to land use
planning. Land use plans have been prepared at the district level from aerial photographs,
supplemented by only brief visits to the villages concerned. This approach has taken little
account of variable and location-specific patterns of resource use, indigenous technical
knowledge, the needs of less influential user groups, individua's' customary rights, and
common property regimes. In some cases conflicts have arisen as a result of this approach
and plans have been ignored because individuals or groups were deprived of resources they
had used by customary right. In other cases the arbitrary denial of access to resources
resulting from land use planning has lowered the income or nutrition of particular households
and caused increased land degradation by concentrating livestock in smaller areas.
Pastoral land use and common  erty regimes. In Tanzania, as elsewhere
in Africa, pastoralism represents an environmentally sound and efficient way of using
extensive areas of arid land. By moving herds on a seasonal and opportunistic basis,
pastoralists are able to exploit browse, pasture, and water that are scattered, meager, and



- 97 -
AM-wA 6
Pae f 6
Appendix 1
highly variable from month to month and year to year. Since pasture, water, and milk are
relatively abundant in the rainy season, carrying capacity and human nutritional status are
normally constrained by access to pastures located near reliable water points during the dry
season. For this reason, virtually all Tanzanian past,orJ groups have traditionally had
rotational grazing systems that restrict the use of dry season pastures during the rainy season.
Over time, however, there has been extensive encroachment by cultivators on dry season
pastures, resulting in the displacement of herds and poople, environmental and social
problems, and heightened inter-group conflict and litigation. Since Independence the pace and
scale of land alienation from pastoralists has increased, and a number of large land grants
have been made to parastatals, for production of wheat.
Forest law and tree management. Evidence is accumulating from many
countries in Africa that forest laws similar to those in Tanzania are contributing to, rather
than preventing, deforestation. In Tanzania, as in other countries, the basic statutes governing
trees do not take into account the complex relationships between people and trees that
characterize most local African systems of tree use and tenure, or the very limited capacity of
Government to contravene these systems. They place all trees in gazetted forests, and all
gazetted species of trees under state control. Gazetted trees are protected by the forestry
service, and their use is regulated through a system of permits and royalties. This regulatory
framework crbe!s poor incentives for local tree and woodland manageme.nt.
Land market. Tanzanian land policy has historically been characterized by a
profound lack of confidence in the economic potential of indigencus agriculture and
institutions to provide the engine of economic development and a corresponding reluctance to
permit the emergence of land markets. Under colonial law, land umder customary tenure
could not be mortgaged, sold or exchanged. In cash cropping areas where land markets
began to emerge they were suppressed. Land granted to non-Africans could be transferred
with permission of the authorities, but compensation could be given only for improvement, as
ownership was retained by the state. After Independence the Government opposed tenancy
and land sale under customary tenure on ideological grounds and experimented briefly with an
attempt to replace customary with collective village ownership. The administrative allocation
under leasehold of land to individuals, corporations and parastatals for development
continued. Today, encouraged by the liberalization of economic and agricultural policy,
allocation is fostering land grabbing by those with access to Governmental authority. Land
markets, though still not legally sanctioned or considered fully legitimate, are developing and
affecting land under customary as well as under registered tenure. The growth of land
markets in the absence of supporting laws and legal institutions is contributing to a number of
economic, social and environmental problems that will have long-term consequences for
Tanzania.
Land reisatin. Tanzania's Second Five-Year Plan envisages the
preparation and registration of leasehold title deeds for villages and, eventually, of subtitles
for individuals. Individuals' lands already have been surveyed in some high potential areas,
and there is widespread belief among policymakers that Kenya's appioach to individual titling
and registration should be emulated in Tanzania. While moves in this direction may be
desired by smallholders in some areas and may yield anticipated benefits (tenure security, land



- 98 -
Annex6
Page 3 of6
Appendix 1
transfers, and mortgage credit), studies of land tenure in Tanzania and Kenya suggest that the
process of land titling in areas with customary land tenure can present difficulties and can
have utanticipated effects on equity, land use and production. These effects derive from the
imposition of titling from above, and the failure to recognize that customary land rights play
an integral role in people's social and ritual life, assure households of access to a strategic
mix of natural resources, and are embedded in local institutions through which people are able
to pool risks and cope with climatic and economic uncertainty.
Obiectives
The overall objective of this study is to assess the impact of present and
proposed land policies on environment, equity and davelopment. It will illuminate the
relationship between policy (including administrative practice), the access of different groups
to natural resources, and the incentives these groups have for managing and developing the
resources. The research is intended to contribute to institutional strengthening in the areas of
land policy, land registration and natural resource management.
Methodology and Outputs
The study will concentrate on the key land policy issues identified and will be
conducted in two phases. Phase I will concentrate on the analysis of existing data and the use
of rapid appraisal methods. Phase II will involve systematic gathering of new data in 15 to
30 villages in three areas in order to test hypotheses generated in Phase I and to assess the
real extent and magnitude of the processes and problems identified and clarified in Phase I.
In Phase I data will be assembled and analyzed in light of approaches and findings from
studies of similar issues in other parts of Africa. The basic research strategy will be one of
triangulation-by juxtaposing information obtained from a variety of sources and disciplinary
approaches and techniques and by deliberately seeking information from groups that are likely
to have different interests and perspectives. This phase of the study will provide a policy
history, analyzng the conceptual and historical sources of past and current policy, the explicit
and implicit assumptions on which they are based, the major adherents and opponents of the
policies, and the key points in their arguments. Phase I will contribute to the final design of
Phase II intensive field research by identifying target groups and geographic zones for
defining the research design and by refining the research hypotheses, s1rvey design,
household stratification, and data requirements.
Specifically, Phase I will address:
1. Land law. administrative process and access to ntral resourc. The
formal system of land law and administration will be reviewed, examining judicial and
administrative processes through which access to land and other natural resources is acquired
and indicating directions in which the legal and administrative framework of land allocation
should be changed. Special attention will be given to women's access to land and other
natural resources.
2. Land use Rlanning. The sources and support for top-down planning, its
modalities and the problems it creates, and the effectiveness of alternative models adopted on



- 99 -
Page 40f6
Appendix I
a small scale by some donors and NGOs involving the participation of local interest groups as
well as technical experts in the planning process will be explored.
3. Pastoral land use and conmmon pperty rezgimes. The present status of
pastoralists' land tenure, the institutional proccases Orough which they are losing land, and
the ways that common property rights in resources can be given recognition in land policy
and law will be examined.
4. Forest law and tree managemert. The impact of the current Forest
Ordinance and administrative practices on the management of tree resources in different
agroecological zones and different farming systems will be documented and analyzed and the
ways that individual and common property rights in trees can be recognized, reinforced or
created to provide better incentives for sustainable tree management will be identified.
5. Land markets and registration. Using available national and regional data,
the ways in which agrarian structures have been changing over time will be identified. The
processes through which land transfers are currently taking place and how legal provisions
and land auministrative procedures are affecting land transactions, agrarian structures, land
prices, land rents, transactions costs, and other terms and conditions of transfers will be
examined. Key land policy problems that may be emerging as a result of land market
mechanisms (e.g., concentration, landlessness, excessive fragmentation, absentee landlordism,
land grabbing, and natural resource degradation) will be documented using rapid appraisal
methods. Recommendations will be made on how land markets can be better institutionali2ed.
The extent to which land holdLas under the indigenous system have or are becoming
institutionalized, whether there is a demand and need for land registration, and how
adjudication, surveying, and registration can best be carried out to minimize negative impacts
on equity, environment, and development will be examined.
Phase II of the study will involve new and original research on key land
policy issues that emerge from Phase I. Field studies will be carried out in three regions with
maximum variation in agroecological zones, market access, presence and absence of land
grabbing, presence and absence of registration, and land market forms (e.g., tenancy, private
sales). Heavy emphasis will be placed on primary data collection, hypothesis testing, and
statistical data analysis. Phase II will involve a more intensive research period spanning two
years, aimed at quantifying in a more precise manner the efficiency, equity and environmental
impacts of various legal and administrative mechanisms and various land and environmental
policies on agricultural performance (productivity, income, land improvements, capital
investment, labor employment, land transfers, input and credit use, and natural resources
management).
The primary output of the study be background papers on land law,
administrative process and access to natural resources; land use planning; pastoral land use
and common property regimes; forest law and tree management; and land markets and
registration. A final synthesis paper will incorporate cross-cutting issues and make
recommendations for action. Background papers should not exceed 100 single-spaced pages.
The final synthesis paper will not exceed 40 single-spaced pages, and is to be directed mainl



-100-
Annex 6
Page 5 of6
Appendix 1
at policymackers. It will structure the relevant issues in the Tanzanian and comparative
contexts, report Jhe methods and sources used in the study, discuss past and present policies
and their impact on the environment, equity and development, and make policy
recommendations, including an assessment of potential positive and negative effects.
Phase I will be carried out in the first half of Year 1 by a team of experts
from the international contracting institution and Tanzanians. The review of the formal
system of larnd law anti .uministration processes through which access to land and other
natural resources is acniuired will be conducted over a three-month period, including
approximately one month of background wor. assembling and analyzing written materials ard
two months for additional data collection, analysis 2-.d write-up. The research will require
three months of time each for an expatriate expert with extensive experience in land law and
land administration in Africa and a Tanzanian counterpart with a legal background and
experience vvith land law.
'Te land use research will be conducted by an expatriate expert (3 months)
with extensive- experience in land use in Africa and three Tanzanian counterparts (3 months
each) from the Covernment or a research institution. The work will include approximately
one month of background work assembling and analyzing written sources; ten weeks for
interviews, travel outside Dar es Salaam, and time for fieIO work; and two weeks for write-
up, for a total of three months. This research will require the use of a vehicle.
The research on pastoral land use will be conducted by an expatriate expert
with extensive experience on the topic in Africa and a Tanzanian counterpart from the
Government or a research institution. Each researcher will require three months, including
two weeks for background work assembling and analyzing written sources; two months for
interviews, travel outside Dar es Salaam, and for field work; and two weeks for write-up.
The forest law and tree management research will be conducted by an expatriate expert with
extensive experience on the topic in Africa and two Tanzanian counterparts from the
Government or a research instit-ition. It will require three months for each researcher,
including one month of background work assembline, and analyzing written sources, ten weeks
fo. interviews, travel outside Dar es Salaam, and field work, and two weeks for write-up.
The use of a vehicle will be required.
The land markets and registration research will be conducted by one or more
expatriate experts with extensive experience in land markets and land registration in Africa
and two Tanzanian counterparts from the Government or a research institution. It will require
4 person-months of expatriate time, and 4 months each of time by the two Tanzanians. The
use of a vehicle will be required.
Phase n will involve an intensive research phase, spanning two years. The
research will be supervised by experts from the contracting institution who will visit Tanzania



- 101 -
Annex 6
Appendix 1
periodically for a total of 12 person-months. Eighteen person-months of local consultancies
and 4 person-years of research assistance will also be required.
Technical and secretarial support will be provided by a secretariat (6 person-
months of expatriate time and 27 person-months of local time). The secretariat will be in
charge of pros ;ding independent monitoring of the village demarcation and titling program.
Training in the form of 3 seminars, 3 workshops, and study tours to
neighboring countries will be provided.



- 102-
Artnex 7
Page 1 of 4
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Village Demarcation. Titling
and Registration Terms of Reference
CADASTRAL ADVISOR
Terms of Reference
Position:           Cadastral Advisor
LocatQn:            Dar es Salaam
Duration:           3 months
OualificatioQn:     A background in land registration, land titling, and cadastral systems;
at least 10 years experience working with multipurpose cadastral and
land information systems; developing country experience a definite
asset.
Dutiesa
Responsibilities:   The Cadastral Advisor will report to the Commissioner of Lands,
MLHUD. He/she will work closely with the heads of the legal,
valuation, and land registration sections, and with the heads of the
land administration units in the regions. The Cadastral Advisor will
undertake a study of the land administration and information
processing procedures within the agencies involved in land
administration in Tanzania and advise the Commissioner of Lands on
ways to improve the handling of legal and fiscal information. He/she
will:
(i)     Review land administration procedures in all regions of Tanzania.
This review will include an examination of the administrative
procedures for allocating and disposing of land, of how land valuation
information is collected, stored, and used, and of how land parcels are
surveyed, registered and titled. It also includes a review of the
linkages that exist between the legal allocation, valuadon, and
registration functions;
(ii)     Examine the relevant legislation and regulations concerning land
administration, and review the organizational structure, staffing
allocations, and mission statements of the national and regional
offices. Identify problems and issues;



- 103 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
Ar'endix I
(iii)     Review the information handling and record keeping procedures of the
agencies responsible for land administration, and identify problems
and issues;
(iv)      Identify actions for strengtheniag the institutional structure and for
resolving staffing issues;
(v)      Recommend actions for improving the processing of the information
and the filing and storage of the records;
(vi)      Define the technical requirements for equipment and systems needed
for maintaining a cadastre;
(vii)     Define priority training needs for staff involved in land administration
and information management, and identify appropriate in-service
training and study tour programs in other countries;
(viii)     Assist in the preparation of a work program and budget for
revitalizing the land administration and cadastral functions.



- 104 -
Annx 7
Pag!e 3 of 4
Appendix 2
TANZANA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LAN  RECORDS SPECIAIST
Terms oif Retfyweno
Position:           Land Records Specialist
Location:           Dar es Salaam
Duration:           4 months
Oualifications:     A background in legal cadastres and land information systems; at least
10 years experience working with multipurpose cadastral and land
information systems; developing country experience a definite asset.
Responsibilities:   The Land Records Specialist will report to the Commissioner of
Lands, MLHUD, and work closely with the heads of the land
registration, legal, and valuation sections. The Land Records
Specialist will assist the Commissioner of Lands in implementing the
recommendatiuns of the study on land administration procedures.
He/she will:
(i)     Assist in the identification, acquisition, and implementation of
equipment, systems, and materials for processing and managing land
records;
(ii)     Develop and implement operational procedures for processing land
records, microfilming documents for archival storage, and filing
documents in secure environments;
(iii)    Train national staff in the use of micro computer technology for
database management, data processing, and word processing.



-105 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
Table 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
VILLAGE DEMARCATION AND TITLiNG COMPONENT
Implementation Schedule
roject Year
1       2        3       4        5 1 6         i
Survey and Demarcation activities:
Project Start-up
Phase I (pilot)
Phase 11
Procure vehicles                                    .
Procure bicycles                   ...
Procure Survey Equipment
GPS Workshop & Training               .
Procure Microcomputers
Procure Cartographic Equip & Supplies ..            ..
Local Training                      ....
Mobilization & Supervision Activities                        - - - - --
Preparation of Boundary           .......... ....     ....    .      .....
Markers
Village Demarcation & Surveys                               ------
Phase I (pilot)                                                   .. ..       .....
Phase 11
Monitoring studies
Mid-term review and assessment
Village Titding and Registration
activiies:
Land Information Management Studies
Cadastral systems
Land Records Management
Procure Archiving Equipment
Procure Filing and Storage Equipment-
Procure Word Processing            ...
Equipment
Training
Local Training                        .
Study Tours                               --- -----------. . ...
Titling and Registration Activities  ...s ... . ......... ...
Mobilization and Education Activities    - - -            _ ------
Follow-up Activities



-106-
Annex 8
Page 1 of 5
Table 1
iANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Mwanza Operational Annex
Mwanz: Summary of Outu  from E&Wmio
output                 Year         1           2            3            4           S            6       Totar
Staff toaned:
Extension                          30          30           30           54          63           63          63
management                          6           6            6            6           6            6            6
Rongai/Sao Hiil                     6           6            6           10          10           10          48
Extension service to:
Households                        180         369          540        1,040        1,600       1,800        1,8Q0
Social groups                      18          36           54           86         124          144          144
Schools                            18          36           54          104         160          180          180
Extension matrials to:
Schools                            S0         IS0          300          400        S50           so0          500
Nurseies:                         216         432          648        1,230        1,884       2,124        2,124
Seedlings produced: (million)       0.3         0.5          0.7          1.3         2.0          2.3          7.1



- 107 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 5
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
REGIONAL FOREST EXTENSION OFFICER
Terms of Reference
PoiiQn:             Regional Forest Extension Officer
LocadoQn:           Mwanza
Duration:           Permanent appointment
Oualifications:     Degree in forestry. Practical experience in forestry extension.
Dies and
Resonsibiitides:    The Regional Forest Extension Officer (RFEO) will be responsible for all
community and farm forestry extension and village woodland management
extension within Mwanza Region. He/she will report to the Regional Forest
Officer and supervise the district extension staff. During the project period
the RFEO will work as the counterpart of the Community Development
Specialist. In particular he/she will be required to:
-     Plan and conduct the training of district staff in extension organization and
practice.
-     Plan, organize and supervise forestry extension surveys.
-     Assist district staff in the preparation of work programs and budgets.
-     Prepare the annual regional extension plan and budget and be responsible for
the control of that budget.
-     Plan and participate in the community and farm forestry extension program.
-     Establish and implement collaborative extension programs with govermnental
and non-govermnental organizations.
-     Prepare and organize the printing and distribution of extension materials.
Develop a program of management of village woodlands.
Supervise and provide the support necessary for short term consultants.
Monitor and evaluate extension activities in accordance with the M&E system
established.
Arrange, in collaboration with the Community Development Specialist, for the
overseas training of project staff.
Supervise and evaluate, in collaboration with DFOs, the work of individual
district extension staff.
Prepare and submit six-monthly and annual progress reports.



- 108 -
AMex 8
Pae 3 of 5
Appendix 2
TANZANIA
FOLREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
Terms of Reference
asition:            Community Development Specialist
Location:           Mwanza
DurRaRtion:         3 years, with possible extension for further 3 years
Oualifications:     Degree in an appropriate subject. At least 5 years professional experience in
community/rural development in a developing (preferably African) country.
Fluency in English. Ability to speak, read and write Swahili or the ability
and willingness to learn.
Duties and
RP   onsibki1i1ie:  The Community Development Specialist will be responsible for project
implementation. He/she will advise and assist counterparts (Regional Forestry
Officer and the Regional Forestry Extension Officer) in the planning,
implementation and evaluation of the project. In particular, he/she will be
required to:
-     Plan and conduct extension and management training and, in general, develop
the professional capabilities of forestry staff.
-     Plan, organize and supervise forestry extension surveys.
-     Assist regional nid district staff in the preparation of work programs and
budgets.
-     Plan, supervise and participate in a forestry extension program.
-     Establish and implement collaborative extension programs with governmental
and non-govermnental organizations.
-     Prepare and organize the printing and distribution of extension materials.
-     Develop a program of management of village woodlands.
-     Develop a program of forest reserve management.
-     Supervise and provide the support necessary for short-term consultants.
-     Arrange for the overseas training of project staff.
-     Prepare and submit, in collaboration with counterpart staff,
six-monthly and annual progress reports.



-109-
Annex 8
Pagre 4 of 5f
Appendix 3
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION SPECIALIST
Terms of Reference
Position:           Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Logation:           Mwanza and Tabora
Duration:           A total of 7 months: Year 1, 3 months; Years 2 and 3, 1 month each; Year 5,
2 months.
Oualifications:     Degree in an appropriate subject with a minimum of 5 years experience in the
monitoring and evaluation of rural development projects.
Duiesan
Responsibilities:   Responsible for the design of a monitoring and evaluation system, the training
of staff in its use and participation in the mid-term and final evaluations of the
project. In particular, the M&E Specialist will:
-     Design an appropriate monitoring system, taking full account of national as
well as immediate project needs.
-     Train forestry staff in extension surveys, the monitoring of project activities
and the interpretation of the information collected.
-     Recommend any database and data processing facilities required by the project
for monitoring and evaluation.
-     Design and test any additional surveys necessary to collect baseline
information.
-     Write a monitoring and evaluation manual for the project.
-     Assess the performance of the monitoring system during a visit to the Region
in Year 2 and take whatever steps necessary to amend procedures and provide
additional training to staff.
-     Design the mid-term evaluation and participate in it in Year 3.
-     Design the final evaluation and participate in it in Year 5.



- 110-
Annex 8
Pare 5 of 5
Appendix 4
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
EXTENSION TRAINING SPECIALIST
Terma of Reference
Position:           Extension Training Specialist
Location:           Mwanza and Tabora
Duration:           A total of 5 months: Year 1, 3 months; Years 2, 2 months.
Oualifications:     Degree in an appropriate subject with a minimum of 5 years experience in
extension training, ideally including re-orientation of forestry workers.
I)uties and
Responsibilities:   Responsible for the overall design of a set of rigorous but flexible on-the-job
training components for district and divisional forestry staff, to be
implemented in Year 1 and to continue throughout the life of the project. In
particular, the Training Specialist will:
-     Design an intensive "start-up" course in extension organization and practice;
-     Participate in the implementation and evaluation of this course in Year 1,
thereafter refining a model to be repeated by project staff in following years;
-     Design the format for a program of regular project review/training workshops
to be implemented at district level in Year 1;
-     In Year 2, participate in the implementation of an additional tier of training
workshops at divisional level;
-     Liaise with staff from community forest service with respect to their
involvement in the design, implementation and subsequent evaluation of these
training components;
-     Collaborate with community forest service in the preparation and field testing
of a set of extension support manuals for field staff in Years 1 and 2.



- ill -
Annx 9
Page I of
Table 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Tabora Operational Annex
Tabora: Forestry Extension - Summary of Outputs
Year    1        2       3       4        5       6      Total
Outputs
Staff trained:
Extension                      -       11      11      20       20      20      20
Management                     -       4        4       4        4       4       4
Rangai/SaoHMll                 -       4        4       4        4       4      20
Extension services to:
Households                     -      60      120      240     480    720      720
Social groups                  -       6       12      24       30      48      48
Schools                        -       6       12      24       30      70      70
Extension materials to:
Schools                        -      50      100      150     200    200      200
Nurseries:                           -       72     144      288     540    838      540
Seedtlings produced:                 -       0.1      0.2     0.3      0.5    0.9      2.0
(millions)
Tabora: Other Oututs
Phase I
The main outputs from the Phase I program will be as follows:
(1)    1,500,000 updated vegetation and land use map;
(2)    reconnaissance survey/inventory reports;



- 112 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
Table 1
(3)    Regional Forest Resource Management Plan, including:
-     a long-term strategy for forest reserves and village woodlands;
-     classification and priority ranking of woodland areas according to their
environmental, economic and social values;
-     identification of pilot woodland management reserves/artas and villages for
inclusion in Phase II;
-     outline negotiation and management plans for Phase II pilot areas;
(4)    Phase II project document wiEh detailed implementation plans.
Phase n
(1)    Reserve Management and Protection:
timber and woodfuel inventories for up to 400,000 ha.
-     management plans for up to 400,000 ha. of reserves;
-     improved reserve management and protection;
-     improved timber regulations;
-     20 trained reserve management staft;
-     recommendations and guidelines for reserve management and protection.
(2)    Village Woodland Management:
-J   <communal woodland management in 10 villages;
*     4 trained village extension staff (additional to <1 >);
-     recommendations and guidelines for village woodland management.
(3)    Pilot Woodland Management and Applied Research:
-     12-24 established and monitored study plots;
-     research/monitoring fimdings and reports;
-     miombo woodland management recommendations.
(4)    Revenue Collection and Incentives:
-     increased revenue accruing to village, District, Region and Central
Government;
-     improved incentives for sustaihable management;
-     report and recommendatiors on pilot scheme(s).
(5)    Community and Farm Forestry:
-     trained staff, groups and individuals;
-     540 self-supporting nurseries;
-     1 million seedlings over 5 years;
-     report and recommendations on extension forestry in Nzega and Igunga.



- 113 -
Annex 9
P_age 3 gf6
Appendix 1
IANZANIA
FOREST RE3SOCEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Terms of Refernce
Position:        Forest Management Specialist
Location:        Tabora
PDratiQn:        3 years, with possible extension for further 3 years
Oualificatimn:    A degree in forestry with At least 5 years experience in forest
management, preferably within an African natural woodland environment.
Fluency in English. Ability to speak, read and write Swahili or a
willingness to learn.
Duties and
RWnsibilities:  The Specialist will be responsible for assisting the Regional Forest Officer
of Tabora in developing an effective management program for the
protection and development of forest and forest-related resources within
Tabora Region. In particular he/she will be required to:
-     Assist in the formulation of a regional forest resource plan, utilizing
existing records, forest inventory data and available maps, field
observations and discussions with interested parties.
-     Assist in the identification of priority forest reserve and village woodland
areas in which project activities will be concentrated.
-     Assisting drawing up a program of essential boundary marking and liaise
with regional surveyors on re-surveying work.
-     Determine where patrolling is necessary and justified and identify any
locations where incremental staff may be needed.
-     Assist in the identification of those areas requiring early burning and help
organize and train staff. Also investigate the possibility of controlled
grazing as an alternative to early burning.
-     Plan and participate in baseline studies on the existing use being made of
the forest resource.



- 114-
Annex 9
Lge 4 of6
Appendix 1
Assist the sociocconomist and regional staff in the development of village
woodland management programs.
Advise on studies to be carried out by short-term consultants and assist in
their implementation.
Assist in the planning and execution of the inventory and associated
mapping.
Liaise with the Forest Management Section of FBD in drawing up work
plans and in identifying coupes.
Assist in the location of areas for management studies and applied
research, advise on silvicultural techniques and assist in their
implementation.



- 115-
Ann§K 9
Pae 5 of6
Appendix 2
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FOR  MENSURAON SPECIALT
Terms of Reference
PosioiQn:       Forest Mensuration Specialist
ioatign:       Tabora and Dar-es-Salaam
DuratiQn:       A total of 6 months. Year 2, 2 months; Year 3, 4 months.
Oualifications:    The Specialist should have a degree in forestry and have had previous
experience in forest inventory in tropical or subtropical areas. He/she
should be familiar with the computer analysis of mensurational data.
He/she should be prepared to spend long periods in the field. Fluency in
English is required and a knowledge of Swahili would be desirable.
Dulies and
Remibilities:  The Specialist will be expected to assist the FBD Forest Survey and
Inventory Section and project staff in the planning, implementation and
analysis of a forest inventory program within selected forest reserves in
Tabora Region. In particular he/she will be required to:
-     Review existing inventory and mapping data of the natural forest in the
project area.
-     Design an inventory to provide essential management information on the
structure and quality of the forest.
-     Organize any field training needed for inventory work, including tree
identification.
-     Oversee the completion of new forest mapping.
-     Oversee the analysis of data.
-     Identify the need for, and establish, permanent sample plots to supplement
the plots to be established as part of the management studies and applied
research program.



- 116 -
Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
Appendix 3
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SOCIOECONOMIST
Terms of Reference
Posiion:         Socioeconomist
Location:        Tabora
Duration:        3 years
Qualificatio:    A degree and post-graduate qualification in natural resources economics
and social anthropology/sociology. At least five years overseas experience,
preferably including experience of forestry, land use, and environmental
issues in Africa. Working knowledge of Swahili or an ability to learn.
Duties and
Resomibilities:  The socioeconomist will be responsible for assisting the Regional Forest
Officer and other project staff in developing an effective management
program for the protection and development of forest and forest-related
resources within Tabora Region. In particular he/she will be required to:
-     Design, supervise and analyze the social and economic components of the
reconnaissance surveys;
-     Advise and assist the RFEO, expatriate volunteer forester and other
project staff in the investigation, design, discussion, negotiation, and
implementation of the village woodland and reserve management
components;
-     Design and supervise a computerized project monitoring and evaluation
system, and train staff in its use;
-     Assist in the formulation of a regional forest resource plan, utilising
existing records, survey data and maps, field observations and discussions
with interested parties.
-     Assist in the identification of priority f1;rest reserve and village woodland
areas for Phase II project activities;
-     Assist in the design and appraisal of the Phase II programme;
-     Advise on studies to be carried out by short-term consultants and assist in
their implementation.
-     Provide in-service training on social and economic issues.



- 117 -
Annex 10
Paae I of 2
Chart 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAQEMEN"' PROJECT
project Organization and Management
ORGANIZATION
rE   E
*Ii Zr     Z
,I                         .   ..               .  .
....  Coadirt Ion
Lmonof 4ecIaf AccoimnU
DED   ~~*Dli*ict Exw*ive Dfrnoa
DIP          DistoictPort Offllm
DIV.       D-.,in
DLG         lDWuan  of Local OAovmom
DRA         *DqS.inboIbUcRuMUkIIiW Ad mId
FUD          Fontaiy md Bhaelopig DMam
IRA      Ib*tks for Remoom Aauwgo
LDD         *Ld DEvolmmSuvm DMm
MD?T         Mlnioy of acdam, Schinced TecdoIoVy
hamUI       - Mhoy of Land. Honin m UAa Dcavlopwa,
IfrNRB       MhUmWy of Taurha. Niurmi Ramcum sal Eovfroa
PCC         *  jo CootdhathCohaen
PMO         - ptha MwiIauea Offic
RDD        - RhOogic DowiogimewDirect
Es         - Rosied SaevoyR
ISD          Savoy SWd IM4pina Divide



- 118-
Anne I0
PagLe 2 of 2
Chart 2
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FLOW OF FUNDS
A     AO
U   Location of %ecJal Accounts            SNEY TEi  
Flow of Funds
DPO         - Ditrict FP  Ofl*e
DIV.        - Dhsin
FBD          Fo'by and Dck   DF
IRA         - Imdbt for Rmmur Aasa
IDSD         Lad DvmaatSvice. D Fiui
iIM D       *  iay of lan, Hamhgmi Uda D      _eopment
MNREB       - eMiaiy of Tmrum, Naul R aourm md El_irca
PCC         - PFojCootiC-onmiibe
RXO        .- Rg   Fot OffiOr
RS- Reglo  SUrvyor
S           - Suyer
SamW         SUey ad Mapps Dhvson



TAAN
FORMS RESOURCE MANAGEMENr PROlECT
_         1          2          2          4           1          0          7           a            a            to          it           2            1s           14           1s
09e.kWPpuuMdid                         1400       1400       1400       1400        1400       1400       1400        1400        1400           1400        1400        1406          1466        1400          140
0u_        _  utt410                              640        t40          30l         60         60O      640         tco         uee              00e       *0          ue              30        uoe             6
dWSb_f a dNM                                                  * n        n           n                     n           a                          a *z                    a     n                   SO            of
-tdd                   10         10          10         10         t0         10         l0           10          I0            10          la          0e            t0           I1
2                   122        122        122        122         12o        12         122         122         12             122                     1e2           1tO         12            12
e__-                OW                   n    n  #                        n    n    n    n                              n           a              a           n           n             n           n
Told beatms140               140        140        14         140        140         140         140         140           140          140         140          140          140           140
abbomk Soso Id                         00         102"       1020       1020       l0se        1020       10o0        1020        1020          1026         o    1020  10o"  1020                        1026  12
Ferns,        mess                    14000      14000      14000      14000      14000      14000      140          14000       14000         14000        14000       14000        140          140           14000
T_2                   2          4          I          a          7           a            S            10          II           Is           1s          14           11 f ,
o gdsmn _                                            3 o                   10         10         Is         2           27           20            21          a1          J1           21           21            a1
_      _       s                      72000      72000      7200    1200          12000    12000    164000          210000      2             2460         2410010    240           240_         240000        240100
6.e_  P§A19I* 9w4                       170        240        610         620       126        1s"        1a6         is"          16s      n     63         162         lo6          16           Is6           1NS6
so         200         400            0o         n6           no0          on            no           no
se *o          o        170        240        610        620       1s6         tm          7#         13          21n5           2420        2426        2426         242          2421          24
:pu                  70         70         70          0         70          70         70         O7           70             70          70          70           70           70            70
_           W  _1 -                       2          e          7           7         so         1o          o           a           o              *          10           10          to           Io            10
_wdnd mu Mkktdh O                 S      so         so         to          so         0o         go         a           do          so            40           00          00           00           so            so
: OWL                       a          s0         s0         so         30         s0         s0           so          so            so           so           0           a            so            so
_eebp ussbg*  IW                        102        206        Su          112        I21         1         3I         1071        1101           1211        1,41        1441         14l1         14            1401 .
10I 



- 120 -            Annex 11
Page 2 of 3
U R hiI              !  eg      33       Tablel1
s   5i  l    §  e*   I  gi   g0ff
U      liIi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
$~~ ~~~          III I"*§g§§gietj  
*                                 Iips§a§31i           
e |  jU                            U-       | " e | ||0 
I1I3§0i !|Ii I;       - -   |  1~ -11i
a-a |IIII    I    ei   0|l    333X



- 121 -
Annex 11
Page. 3 of 3
Table 2
TANZANIA
FORESI RESOURCES MANAGEMNT PROJE
MWANZA: SENSIrTVITY ANALYSIS
Ealin-- 1                                              2                3               4               S                6               Toted
Hish (+45%)                          246             492              738            1332            2008             2300               7116
Medium                                170            340              510             920            1385             1585               4910
LAW(45%)                              94             187             281              5W              762              372               2701
Sodip  ccado         ld kog M      vr
Eginga                                  1              2                3               4               5                6               Toal
HRi  (+45%)                            3               7               1o              10              13               15                 59
M _dim                                 2               5                7               7-              9               10                 41
[r (-450)                              1               3                4               4               5                6                 22
Rtemus of Knswv  anlshi:
NPV ? 10%
Crah.'0)           an
Ban ame (diuml aounvtous)                  194177             12
Wh project odi  prcductio +45%1897656               22
Wih peqcteanling pnductiam -45% -140264            a



-122-
Annex 12
Page I of I
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
FORESTRY RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Costs. Disbursement and Cofinancing
List of Detailed Cost Tables in the Project File
(Appraisal Mission Working Paper)
1.     Table 1       -     Land Use/Natural Resources Mapping
2.     Table 2       -      Royalty Collection Activities
3.     Table 3       -      Forest Activities: Best Practices
4.     Table 4       -      Long-Term Forestry Financing
5.     Table 5       -      Improvement of Infrastructure
6.     Table 6       -      Project Coordination Office
7.     Table 7       -      Resource Information Center
8.     Table 8       -      Land Policy Development
9.     Table 9       -      Village Demarcation
10.     Table 10      -     Village Titling and Registration
11.     Table 11      -     Deputy Project Coordination Office
12.     Table 12      -     Extension Forestry, Mwanza Region
13.     Table 13      -      Tabora Forestry Program
14.     Table 14      -      Tabora Research Program
15.     Table 15      -      Summary Accounts by Year
16.     Table 16      -      Breakdown of Summary Accounts (US$)
17.     Table 17      -      Summary of Accounts by Year Including Contingencies
18.     Table 18      -     Breakdown of Summary Accounts (TSH)
19.     Table 19      -     Project Components by Year
20.     Table 20      -      Project Components by Year Including Contingencies
21.     Table 21      -      Summary Acco_nt by Project Component
22.     Table 22      -      Summary Accounts Cost Summary
23.     Table 23      -      Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
24.     Table 24      -      Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
25.     Table 25      -      Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange/Local/Taxes
26.     Table 26      -      Disbursement by Financier by Semester
27.     Table 27      -      Project Cost Summary
28.     Table 28      -      Financing Plan by Project Components



- 123 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 10
Table 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA                                                                  Cumulative
Fiscal Year                     Disbursements                     Disbursements
US$ Thousands-
Semester
1                     2078                          2078
2                     2078                          4156
3                     2474                          6629
4                     2474                          9103
5                     1372                         10475
6                     1372                         11847
7                     1478                         13325
8                     1478                         14803
9                      970                         15773
10                     970                         16742
11                     794                         17536
12                     794                         18330



Iaaiaula
1l11si ftSOUfCE lUUGffKt Pl f    CI
PlS.(tl CG31 SU_tW
115" '000)                                         aisti '0001
- -- --       --  - --     -  -  --.--.- -.-.--.--      .........,   ..  ................. . .      -
It total                                      I lotal
I foreign  ease                               I foregn  as*E
local      Foreign     Total    Ia ch&#g.   Costs   local  foreign   total   I xchanrV   costs
8. IUlfIUtM 91ESOUftt N0lIIU6ftiliOftESI P04111
1. EUO8 USE/UIU&1  Sofi#tCE m"IIm6                                  63.599.0   291.731.6   355,330.6         82       9    276 5  1.268.4  1.544.9         82        9
2. 8SOfEC1 IN#OftIIlu CEIIIER                                        6.469 1   136.916.6   143.385 I         95        3     28.1   595.3    623 4          95       3
3.  0V1811t CIlEC1IIN *CIIVIIIIS                                    24. 150.0    95,.51.2   119.807.2        80        3    105.0    415.9    520.9         80       1
4. iOESI ICIIVIIIIS: US)1 PUtIICES                                 14.490.0    20.628.6    3S. 118.6        S9        1    63.0      89 7    152.7         S9       I
5. 90106 11t   1FO1ESIt fiUNtIlCG                                   7.245.0    13.898.4    21.143 4        66        1    31.5      60.4     91 9         56       I
C. INFOOVEUEUI Of If11SF10CIU1E                                    143.252 2    84,251.4   227.503.6         37        6    622 8    366.3    989 1         37       6
1. Pf ECI E000IUI1I0u OFFICE                                        26.614.6    72.022.3    98.636.9         73       2    t5.7    313. 1   428.9          73       2
S,e-lotal UIIURIL 950URCE 1O1IIIIORING/fDftES1 POlICt                 285.819.9   715.106.1 1.000.926.0         71       24  1.242.7  3,109.2  4.351.9         it      24
8. ItSIIIUIIOUII  SIREIGIMUEINIt C  IM  P01C?
1. LAND POIIC1 OEVEIOPI'IlCI                                        87.250.0   291.106 1  378. 356. I        77       9    379.3  1.265.7  1.645.0          77       9
2. VILLAGE OEt4tIII01                                              366.236.9   341.481 8   707,718.1         48       17  1.592 3  1.484.7  3.077.0         48      t7
3. VI8 A101  lili18  AND REGISItIeIOI                               57.287.2   136,28U 6   193.575 8         70        5    249 1   592 6    841 6          70       5
4. OfPU1T P8f0iCI OlUI0 IO131 OffiCE                                25,455 4    39,571.5    65.026 9         61        2    110 7    172 0    282.7         6l       2
Sib-tlotl IXStltUtI0ll1  SRlfUGhIlltiMG: 18A0 POIIC1                  536.229 4   808.448.0 1.344.677.5         60       33  2.331 4  3.515.0  5S846.4         60      33
C. REGlONIL AND OISIRICI fORESI SERVICE STREGtIIIENINC
1. Il4*A ftEGIONAI FOIIESIT PIOCRU4                                180.359.7   479,895.9   660.256. 6        73       I6   784.2  2,086.5  2.870.7         73       16
2. ARE10GftECIOf0Ut FORESIRT POGRIN
IUIIR4 fORESIRt PRRf                                            254.223.7   744.934.6   999. 158.3        75      24  I. 106. 3  3,238.8  4. 344.2       75      24
If89  tESEUIJtt PROGR4t4                                         60.331.5    69,571.4   129.902.9         54       3    262.1    302.5   564 8          54        3
Sih-loIaI IUlORAftEGClfJI  fOftESlt PROGRU                         314.555.2   814,506.0 1.129.061.3         72       27  1,367.6  3,654.3  4,909.0         72      27
S.d-lota  ft£CIOttftE 411D lS1CT  FOfESI SEnICE SIRE1NGIMEIUG         494.915.0 1.294.401.9 1.789.316.9         72       43  2. 151. 8   ,627. 8  7.779. 6     72      43
total USEsINE COSTS                                                   1.316.964.3 2.8)7.956.0 4.134.920.3         68      100  5,725.9 12. 252.0 17.977.9        68     100
PhIsical Contmngmies                                                  34,476. 2    51.541. 0    92.016.2       63        2    149.9   250.2    400.1          63       2
Price Contlingesies                                                  67t.914. 1 1.231.136.4 1.903.110.5        65      46    912.0  1.544 6  2,556.6          64      14
Total fIOICI COSTS                                                    2.023,413.6 4.106,633.4 6.130.047 0         67      148  6,787.8 14. 146 7 20,934.5        68     116
SqptIoe  26. 1991  14:42
o*Q0
I X
ON



*OSI n.lasCf nassaciur NOJICI
SUNnau  accomIs coss sum"as
elSa  @I NOSS%  0001
I loSeS                                         I lbtaS
I Forign  Base                                  I foreign  Bass
local      Foreign      total      Exchange   Costs    Local  foreign   total  fxchange   Costs
A. cavai iums
I. 0111CC oiMoiSG                           52751.8M      AI. 525. S   209.331.3        39       5    555.71   354 5    910.1           39       6
2. IUCSI SISISN NOUSING                      S0.263.S1     5,80149. 5    12,073.1       Is       0      44.6       7.9     52.5b        is        *
Sub-Total CliVi MOSS                           138. 0"9. S   83. 33S.0   221. 404. S       38       1    600.3    362.3    969.6f          30        5
AL VUENcLES M3 ogUIPwlEE
s. vEuscics                                  30. 785.?7  276.911. 3   301.597.0 o      so              5 33. 9  5. 203. 5  I. 337.4     90       7
2. EQIOSPUNFN                               382,492.6   428.767.4   611.260.0           70       is    793 4  3.864 2  2.65W  7         70       Is
3. NAItlAIAS AND SUPPLIES                    62.017. 2   195.235.7   257,252.9          76       6    269 6    848 9   1.eig5           76        6
Si-loseS ViNICiES AND £OUIPU(NI                27S5295.5   900.814 4 1.116.110 0           77      28  3. 566.9  3.916 6  5.5)3 5i         77       28
C. WIESUICAL ASSISIANCE                        '78. 193.2 I. 594. 579. 9 3. 372. 373. I    87       33    774.8a  5. 152. 5 5. 966 a       87       33
D. IUA3NSNG
owuescAs leAsusus                            1i. 592.0   392. 895.4   204. 487.4        94       5      50.4    838 1    889 5          94        6
IOCAt IRAI1ING                               75. 053.0    10. 133.2    85. 5843         12       2    A26 3      44. s    370 4         92       2
Sib-loteS  1381NtKG                             86.643.0   203,028.7   289.5611.           To       7    376 7    082 7  5.2b9 4           70        1
E. SISIOIES. 1130555ps. Eyc                     10.541.5    15.1563.8    25.705. 3         59        5     46.8      65 9    III a         59        1
F. K0851l5110n MD0 SIIPLIVISISN                 23.856 a      9.836. I    33. 452 9        29        5    302.?7    42. 8    346 4         29        5
G. CASUAL 5*80Q                                 43,854.5 143.814 1                          -        I    590 5         -    5905 S5
to. 0151CR                                      47. 901.5   172. 303.0   220.204 5         78       5    208 3    749 3    SS7 4           78        5
loteS 538(5555(31 COSIS                           80i. O75. 5 2.578B.660. 9 3,382.736. 0      76      82  3,496.0 51.211 6 14. 707 5          76       82
Phyi~ecal Cosniwe                               34,475.2    57.545. 0    92,016. 2         63       2    149 9    250.2    400 5           63        2                                                                    L
Price Contlkmigems                            361,038.8A 5.085.7925.5 1.446.834.3         7s      35    483.2  1,445.4  5.928 6           75       SI 
loteS suewUosur rosucINUcics                    s.19os. sa.15 3.71251.957.4 4. 921. 586. S    76      559  4. 129. 5 12.907. 5 57,036.2       76       9S
II. 50998711 CalS
a. 53C1[K118L S1*F2                           207. 1,865.5         - 207,862.5                     5    903.7          -    903 7          -        S
IL 01E(1A1509 hIS UA3UIEUACE
I. VEUSCIE amR                            216,781.1   210,504.9   421,291.9           s0       50    916.1    955I 2  1.831.?         50s      10
2. 8551565MO soI                            14,589.65    7. 068,?    65,638. 2         II       5    237. 3     30.7    266 0          I5        5
3. E4451P5568  US MAICAIAIS ON1             20,756.,9    5815. SI.2    36,572.2       43        5      90.2     68 8    569 0          43        5
4. 03319 81098813  (AMusES                  18.914. 3    S. 906.3    24,820. 6        24        I      82.2     25. 7    107. 9        24        5
Suib-foleS 09138b131  AND KAINILUAKI          305.027 8   239.295 5  544, 322 9           44      13  5, 326.2  1.040. 4  2,366.6         44       13
loSeS REbS3JII 89S35                              13?. 8*59 2   2.19. 296 I   75.2. 384 3     32       58  2.230 0  3. 040 4  3,270.4         32       58                                                           P
Price Conti gecaso                             150. 9.1%  I   546.J40 9   41tb.2?b 2       32       to    428.8    199 2    628 0          32        3                                                          0
Total 3UCIU8IUG cQNtIIWNGCIfS                     823.824 S   384. 63b 0 5.208, 460 5         32      29  2, 658. 7  1,233 6  3.898. 3        32       22                                                       1 5
ltole swig"3  WOSIS                              I.,356. 9b4 3 2.8 17. 5b. 0 4,534,920 3       68e    300  5,725.9 52,252. 0 17,977.9         fie      to0                                                           o   W.
SUpiceS Conlange.scies                           34. 475.2    57.613 0    92.016 2          63       2    549.9    250 2    400.5           63        251
Price Contiogeacie                              671,974. 1 1.231, 336 4 1,.903, 5310.5b     65      46    932. 0  1.644. 6  2, 566.6        64       54
total PSOJCI COSES                               2.023.413 6 4.106,633 4 6.530.047 0           by      148  6,787. 8 34. 146.7 20.934.5        68      336 
odoS~r 26. InI, 14:42



I0115  31SulNC( NAWUs1G II   MOtCl
Project Conmnats by T"r
uIsH '000
use Costs                                             total
t            2           3           4           5           C           Is" 5t     IS*"000
A. MtimiU8  1S99CE   9919 101991611UOES1 P09Ct
.........................................
1.  *18 uSElut. lt fSiOmCI 0IIN8,                                       127.050.1  16.908.9  31.371. 1                                      -    355.330 6    1.544 9
2. UESOUIU  9luilllN t  Ci8vics                                           SO. OI. 9    35,691.2  16. 769. 1    16.266. 1  13.315 1  10.616.2    143.365. 7          623 4
a  ll0t  117 6 1C9f3lEII   *CIIVIIItS                                     31.306.9    43.250.8  21.122.6    24.127.0                          -    119.807.2        520 9
4. fM1SI 0  CIIVIIES: KSI tCIICIS                                                -    15. 1I8.6          -                        -          -      35. 110.6      152 ?
t   t1  OEMt 1F0S1ltv1 FtIAItciG                                           9.505. 5    19.637.8           -                        -                21. 143 4            9
L  IIIEIIEII Of Ittl1SIUCItl                                                      -   is95. 5s. a.  59.104.8     S, 630.0   5.630 0   S. 630.0    227. 503.6        gSS  I
7. PIOJECI cOOeUhIUh9   OfFICE                                           619.531.5      4.220.1   8.412.9        4,220.S   7.729.9   4.220. 8       98.t636.9       428 9
Sub-aotal 9U1t31 91SObtCE 91010it19i1G/f1llES? P0096                        250.396.5   486,343.0 136.180 5    50.263.9  26.675.0  20.467.1  1.000.926.0    4.351.9
L  114;11101*11CUt Sl16S1i911N1Itt6  11  MUICt
I. 1wo POLICY iVEIOtPi                                                   90. 067.6   165.18 7S. I 94. 65.6    IS. 939. A   8.027.1   3. 876. 3    378. 356. 1    1.645 0
2. VIttAGE Utt1UtIl(t                                                    ItO,.526.4    49.298.S  *45.274. 8   256.740. 6  9S. 87.5  90. 090.9    70t.719  7    3.077 a
3.  IUlAGE liit11   9  116IS1li091                                     53.9728.3    t.S13 4  26.711.5     lI.7S4 5  17.SS7 3   1. 754.5           193,575.S       841 6
4. 3£PUlt P8CI 0     l21CI1( 1l4l0Uf OffiC£                              41.379.6       4.027.6   4.027.6        4.027.6   7.536.1   4.027.6        65.026 9        282.7
...  ..   .... .....   ...... .......... ......................    ............    .........   ............ .    .........    ...........  --- --- --   ----------
Sb-total IttSlltUIICIUt S11191691111901    LAUD P1IICI                      355.952.0   290, 626. 7 170.677.8   288.462.5 129.2Q9. 2  09.749.3  1.344,677.5    S. S46. 4
C. 9161099*  Ul(t S1911CI lWIESI SEIIIICE S1I1191IHEttItUG
1. IRMA ffCIIIIU OSI   P36G8                                            106. 322.3   111. 520.8 105. 123.3   123. 691.4 9I5. 955. 6  97, 642.3    660. 255. 6    2.870 7
2. 181  s116a     IOIISIIn  P806*1
2A391IMS123  P106                                                    189. 79. 6   187. 91S8 0 163. 530. 8   152. 878. 4 ISS, 350. 9 146. 600. 7    999. ISS. 3    4. 344 2
low  ESIASIN  P10                                                     22. 107.3    24,633.6  23. 668.5    19. 804.5         i9s 804.5  99,004.5    129. 902 9   564. 8
S.h-lotal l_* CGIOtUL FOESISt P8089                                     212.066.9   212.551.6 97. 19. 3    172. 682. 9 978. 955.4 166. 405.2  1 129.061.3    4. 909. 0
SMb-lota$ 1GI6U0   *IDU18 ISIICI fOUSI SERVIIY     Sl E4GI96 IlCG        318.3S9.2   324,072. 4 292.322.6   296.374.3 294.,10.9 264.047.5  I. 789, 316. S    7.779 6
total USEIIII  CoSIS                                                          954.737.1 1.101.042.0 599,780.9   635.100.? 449.S9S.2 394,263.8  4.134.920.3   9t. 972.9 
Pysical tenti  i_e                                                          20.020.3    34.293.2  14.236.2    12.450.7   5,980.9   5.034.5             92.016.2       400.1
Price Canlti rcis                                                          950,622.3   32.tt24.? 2*2.273.4   399,539.3 349.1891.9 37C,668.8  1.903. II0.5    2.556.6
........... -----------   . . --------- . ----------- . . -- -- --   --  I...   . ...  --- -- - --   ----- -----.... ....... .... ...... . . . .. ...
Total PEtl  C6SIS                                                           1. 125. 380. 2 1. 4U. IS9 9 896, 290. 5 1.039.090.8 05. 958. I 175. 967.5  6. 30.047.0   20.934 5
.:.s.=. ..........,:- :: . s.:.:: I::::::-.......... ..... ... ..4-..............................., : L--  :z::: :
oteigi E       _cht I75. 362.T t.012. S90.9 593. 135.2   695.354.9 486, 90. 2 442. 9S9.5  4. 106.633.4   14. 146.?
Septem     28  19111   4:42   -
;1L1I
O 9±1
_~ 



50111? 115031  IhI*611I PIjI Cl
Projeci Compo_ts by Ter
lotals Including Contnanci.s
1151 0003
;          2           3          4          5         6       to;tl
A    iulaL usmucz IiliOha.II&      SI f0llCt
1. 1*1  1US1Ut3l   1 S011615 IWPUIC                               149. 111.8  267.576.6  41,544.5           -          -         -  459. 238.9
2. RfSDURtf IOIUIIII Cf1f.21                                      59.948.6    47.459.6  25.207. 1   26.926.4  24.627.2  21.604.4   205.773 3
3. I3YOIIY C£U01C1   AClIlvIIIES                                   36.144.6   56. 688.5  30.830. 6    38.684.4         *         -  162.348 1
4. fOYESI AOIIVIIIIS: USI IPIUIICfS                                       -   46.035.9           -           -         --             46.035 S
S. I101C IfS? Rl! l1sin fIlU*iCG                                    1. 738.0   25.741.7          -           -         -         -   27.479. 1
6 1tw4EY I of IYflSISCIUII            -                                   -  228. 43?.2  M8. 76. 9    9. 045.5   9. 950 6  10.946.9  357 351 0
7. P1O.Ctl  OOIUII*Il 0f11CE                                       81.m71.9     5. 535. 0  12.282.1    6.781 6  13,962. 4   8,207 0   128. 540. 0
S.b-7oloa   U11R     I      OUO ESOIIIIICE Il 10110/fI f  ESICY      328,721.0   672.474.4 214,841.2    81.437.8  48.540.2  40.75. 3 1.386.772.8
l. IUSIIIUlloII  SREIICIIIEIIIII. 1418101 1£C
1. IAND 1011?tC  KVIOPNIII                                        104499.S   211.449.? 138.316.4    25.757.0  14.397.5   7.767.2   508. 187.3
2. 11111U  KNUUll6* l                                            204. 275.3   65. 260.6  66, 904. 9   425. 704.7 170. 163.4 175. 864.0 1. 108. 175. 9
3. 9111CE 1111111C UIB UOISIfInll                                  64.262. 4    91.435.5  40.604.7    19.465.8  32.725.4  23.569.?  278.061. 1
4. OUUIIY 90ClEt C00IM11110l OfIICE                                48.926. 5    5.281.6   5.883.6     6,471.0  13.6208   7.831.3    88.014.9
Sgb-lotIa  lUSIIIUII tI SIlEUGINIIIUG: tIAD PDIICY                   421.966.7   385.427.5 251.709.6   477.398.6 230.907. 1 215. 031.6 1.982.441.0
C. 11610*  ANOI 8 IS1IICI fbUSI SERIICE SIUENGIINUIUG
1.  4*IZA REICU11 f1ES13 PY0FRI                                   124.255.1   147.95. I 155,071. 0   201. 358.0 207.105.6 192.87. 8 1.029.194.6
2.  AI_  9GClti190 f1RESIIT P60CU
*a* foSESlBI PIII*U                                           224.763.9   249.880.5 240.039.2   247.031 3 282.946.2 288.748.9 1.533.410 0
Fr0* CSEC*6   9P66S                                           25.673.4    12. 420.5  34. 629.5    31.865. I 35. 059 0  38. 580. 9   198. 228 5
Si-loola  ILAA REClUI F501153  P0F*                               250,437.4  282.301.0 274.668.8  278, 891 3 318.005.2 327.329 8 1.731.618 5
Swb-lotal KGI O6 L AND D0ISWItIC  fOUSI SfERICE SI1TIICIIIEII        374. 692.45 430.258..1 429.3739.1  480,254. 4  25. 710.58 520. I7. 6 2.760.833.                                                           3
lotal FPIO.ICI COSTS                                                 1. 125. 380.2 1.488. 159.9 896,290.5 1. 039. 090.8 806. 158 1 775.967.5 6. 130.047.0
Septebr 26. 1991  14:42
;4 Zl



FOttST RItESOUlC tUtAGtENtI MJECI
Su.ry Accourts by T"r
Totals Including Cnt tigencies                                        Totals Including Contingncies
1ITSl '0001                                                           1US$ '0001
1           2          3          4          5          6       Total         1       2        1       4       5       6      total
1. IWtSItEMt cOStS
A. civ VMChSS
1. OtFFICE 012tDltGS                              -  228.437.2  97. 103.6            -         -         -  325.540.7          -  824.7   330 3        -       -        -  1,155.0
2. FCEST1 511A3lt MVUSING                   S,413. 6    7,282.8   2. 028.2     2.230.7         -         -    17. 955. 4    25.2    26.3     6.9     7.2        -       -    65 6
Sib-total Civit tDIS                           6, 413.1i  235,1 20. 0  99. 131. 8  2.230.7        -          -  343. 496. 1    25.2   851.0   337.2      7.2       -       -  1, 220. 6
IL VEICLES MD1 ECUIPIKIT
1. VttIICLES                              169.058, 8    37. 385. 6   S. 911. 9   128. 944. 3  68, 397. 8  48. tOS. 1  457. 843.3    663.1   135.0    20. 1   418. 7   210 5   139. 4  2. 586. 7
2. EQUIPIEtNl                             221,057.6   139.337.3  87.481.5   249.048.2 114.391.4 114.481.5   931.797.6    890.4   503.0   297.6   80S.6  352 0   331 8  3.183.4
3. tAIERIALS  ttD SUPPLIES                 71.665.7   121.703.2  71,569.8    35.386.0  38.933.5  42.845.8   3t2. 203 9    282.0   439.4   243.4  214 9   119.8   124.2  1.322.7
Sub-Tolal VIEHICLES AtD EGUIPIEtNt           467. 822.0   298. 426. 0 164. 963. 2   413,378.5 221. 722.6 205,432.4 1, 771. 744. 8  1. 834. 6 1, 077. 4   561. 1 1, 342. 1  682.2   595 5  6. 092. 9
C. IEECNtiatC ASSISTANCE                     401, 457.5  559. 670. 8 330. 62S. 1  235,082.2 204. 692.7 210. 668. 7 12 942. 197. 1  1, 574.3 2, 020. 5 1. 124. 6   763. 3   629.8   614 6  6. 723. 1
0- O1E(55 UtAINING                         29.946. 1   47.899.0  92.599. 4    90. 150.2  39.376.2        -  299,970.9    117.4   172.9   315.0   292.7   121.2          -  1.019.2
tOCit ItAiNING                             21,026.3    17.920.3  20.316.3    27.158.7  23.556.5  27,840.8   127.819 0      82.s    64.7   69 2   88 2    ,2.5    St.?    4286
SMb-Total It18I*3G                           50.972.4    65,819.3 112,915.7   117,309.0  62,932.8  17,840.8   427.789.9   1299.9   237.6  384 1  380.9   193 6    St 7  1.447.8
E. SlUtIES. IStDPS, ETC                       10,590.2     6,802.3   5,462.8      4,066.8   4,474.5   4,924.3    36.320.8      41.5    24.6    18.6    13.2    13 8    14.3   125 9
F.  OlOtil110I 4#D MSt1F3R91SIOt               6. 178.8    6. 584.3   S, 288.9   5.816. 1  16,465.8  12. 672. 1   53. 006. I    24.2    23. 8    18.0    28.9   50 7    36. 7    172.3                           1
G. CASUAL U80R                                3,353. 9    8 876. 3  10. 241. 9    14, 536. 2  25. 989. 8  17. 588. 8    70.586. 9  13. 2    32. 0    34.8    47.2    49. 2    512 0    227 4
H. OINER                                      91. 932. ?   167 946. 5  10.565. 5                             -  276. 444. 7    384.0   606. 3    35 9      -       -       -  1. 026. 3
loltal IMSIIIt ICDSTS                         1. 044. 721.0 12 349. 845.6 739. 194.9  792. 419.4 526.278.3 469. 127. 2 4.921.586.5  4. 096.9 4. 873. 1 2. 514.3 2. 72.8 21.619 3 1. 359 8 17.035 2                OD
II. ff132R8#3 CoSiS
A. IUCEIIEHTA,   STAFF                       23.891.3    32,501.9  35,095.8    77. 129.2  80,572.5  88,629.8   336.820.6      93.7   113.7   119.4   250.4   247.9   256.9  1.082.0
O PERAT ION AND IIAINIENACE
1. 1(121ttE 0s"                          36. 119.9   82,102.3  92, 601. 6   134. 107. 6 159. 325. 7 1t5, 323. 1  679.580 3    141.6   296.4   315.0   435.4  490.2  508 2  2,186.8
2. 8UlltDI#   _                            8.366. 1    9.500.2  12.456.6   20.686. 1 22.755.7  25.033.6    98,798.3       32.8    34 3    42.4    67.2    70 0    72.6    319.2
3. E£Q.IPENI AND tau..!ALtS OI            5,645.3     8.307.5   9,252.6    10,173.6  It. 192.8  12.316.2    56.888.0    22. 1   30.0    31.5    33.0    34 4    35 7    186.8
4. OTHER RIECRRENt EXPENSES                6. 636. 5   6.902. 4   7. 688. 9  4. 574. 8   5.033. 0   5.537. 7    36. 373.3  26. 0    24 9    26.2    14. 9    Is. 5    16 1    123 5
Sub-lotal OE3(11ON AND IIAIUIENACE           56,767.8   106,812.4 121 999.8  169,542.  1 298,307.2 218.20. 5   872,639. 9    222.6   385.6   415.0   550.5   610.2   632.5  2.816 3
Total RECURRENT CtDSIS                           80 659.2   138 314. 3 157. 095. 6   246,672. 3 27, 879.7 306.840 3 1. 208 460. 5    316 3   499.3   534. 3   800. 9   858 I  889 4  3.898 3
Total PROECT COStS                             1. 125.380.2 1.488. 159 9 896,290.5 1.039.090.8 805. 158. 1 775.967 5 6. 130.047.0  4,413.3 5,372.4 3,048.6 3.373 7 2.477 4 2.249 2 20.934 5
Wt  1991  14: 47
(Is Xt
'C' W 3"Q
08 
O -J
O% 



*Ctle.-           s t@-sueu-l S 'aarisUse Ioes                                   *isLsi            suc    sue,,                     i.sn    siusg    susIw                                              Sumuvm ss
; tau  t                  1          fi issu    i12S  I estei*s    *    c  aU t sse                  tss u e      eSe  ttusl us s                ;se s           *siss                                 U,uSb,6 U_ a
..      . .    .   ... ... ....... .......... .......... ......... ........... ................ ............ .................. .............. ..................... ......... ............. .............. ..................... ........ ..................... .....
4  114 tl'l         I tSg'           J. Ctlt'I      I  gG  M'SK    *VS1            etol         t       ttaglt   l'Ul-t              lf'KS-       s nM'         OW-112-t 
. .lI .           I ..t              t I            I ...                  ..ts.  t I-S  ...t                                                    56-5. ..-(5 I. ...g  tI ... St
e;*g              eUd t  e           S tK'SUs       g Uie          g eSe           5 11 t            lSI          -         -                     t U- C   -                                           18152  smugI 1.5.1
a tOl e           gI CN ig           a Us'I           e              ste u         9istc             I                             I              insUt                               _incisug    urn  man      1   we      tool
* - - --     -              -  .. .. .. ..   -                              -                 -             --        -  -  - - - - -
C taUt            CS011,             I i"I          I *   sins    Isecs            -                              - -1555                                       - Vm IWSSIWnS                                    0    5
t  nt l - z  sus                                                         sts  - s                       -                               .                         -m  esa- I   ffnsn
VA'sI tfU                           a lisa u                      ss I  w f    it'.1%19             tgos            II                 "Gl U1,11               IK                                   1i 11waurnurna  leve
S sUes            eu us-l            5CE1 sI   m t   t wi' ts  tusW 1lWIS  S1SIU                                                    Sinsis  l65'5W    55                                               SIW 13S5l31lll 5111
..........  ....... ....... .............. ...........  ........... I........  ............... ..............  ............... .........  .........  ............ ................. .......... ....... ....................
- ~     ~      515 -.                       -               -                 -           -                  -            --                                                        US?  56155   11
* IS (S            t l5 t l         -            -               -                 s -                  -                      z -                                     *0IS51IUII   _    hllIt"ItUS i I
-~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                                                                        *             *(5            * -                             11 *S_SUUl  1256115I   '
N                                  e~~ £ att          * sirs         seslten        -               -                 -                             -             ewess          -                                      Uhdisli lOsq-'s
_ , ~~~~~~~~........... . ............   -----   ............  .. ...........    ----   ..............  ..........  ...........  ...........
5C*I               Ce  S tS       (CiVil         -               --                             -                 -            * it-s         -                                        u.s1.1  IwJ
(K  U'             -                eS ncn       -               -                                                -            een  u         -                                    UIUIN   1511636
"My l~u $1111140 16
*  n' 555   uess                     t sewis        S.us           thi                                tC     i 915U(111                          558            -                     MS1 1131"    111 1521s1   2
*e -l tie        tC 6 (9l                              U t  XSt AC -    618  ElsC                                 -                              cases          tessl *sss -11U   US  11253Wl E
* mess)           * eta t'           -              tetsrs  I 5i1t  5 tl5'                  -              - g  ii                                                                                        "te *  ill"l  1
I (555            55(5               5 ctls         cue            i n21se I.t      %   -            -            .                 -            I-    A        -                                           1|1*121    1
C"'Icu fil' s-c              1                     5 UC       -           -                               -                                                        1 112    'I
...SSr.rtS   ...tttrtnSctt   -....... 55  ,f...S..fl   Sit 55=51 Sn   tfl*t2S~tt5Si  SSttt.S*   *SflSflttItS... ................*
W1UU2                   US         I                              -113A- -                                                                                     -2531 USill *5I U   Nt0I5
S_t515 t6 5  1
&a1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "S                                                                                                                       sole§ IzSI---
331Wl msueanmsss'm 2210531 linens
1K                                                                                                                                                    Ml 11*6  11  'S
IuuLae 9      12S(3gm £5 IWS31 5 £ 5'
9 lel't          3Us31I UISUSU   3511=#5 '3
9 U 't    913           "I"                                                                                                      -                                        olp"l1910.-10



;aUQuma
folEST RiESuOUE iAAKiENT PRMJECT
financing Plan by Project Conp lts
Wus$ I 0oo
OTHER
IDA        FINANCIERS    Goverrwnt          lotel                      tocal
--------------  -----------  ------------  --------------                  IExcl.   Dut es a
oim       2    Amount  I    AmounI Y         kount    I    for. ExcEL  Texes)    laxs
A. NAiURAL ilESOliCE NOEONiNG1 /fiREST POLICY
1. tAND USEINATURU   ESONRCE NAPPING                                1.694. 4 100.0       -    -       0.0  0.0   1.694 4   8.1     I.392. 8    301.6 
2. RiESOURCE INFORIIAIION CENiER                                           -     -   712.2 99.2       S.8  0.8      718 0   3.4        686.2      31.7          -
3. ROALttY cOttECtION ACIIVIIIES                                      576.9 100.0         -    -        -    -      576.9   2.8        462.6    114.3           -
4. FOREST ACIIVITIES: 6ESI PRACTICES                                   166.2 100.0                                  166.2   0 8         97.6      68.6          -
5. tONG TERN fDRESTRV FINAMCING                                        99.7 100.0         -    -         -    -      99 7   0.5         65.4      34.3
i lUNPROVEYENI Of ItFUSIRUCIURE                                       969.2  77.3         -    -    283.9 22.7   1.253. 1  6.0         464.2    7l8.8 
7. PROJECI COORDINA11II   OffiCE                                      457 4  97.1         -    -     13.8a  2.9     471.:   2.3        337.1    134. 1
-- - - - - - - - - -       ..   . .. ....    ....   ... .....    .... .  -- - -- -  .......  ... . .
Sub-Total NATURAL RESOURCE MONITORING/fOREST POLICY                    3.963. 7  79.6   712.2 14.3    303.6  6.1   4,979.5  23.8        3.506.0  1.473 4           -
G. INSIIIUIONAlt  STRENGIHiENING: IttD POLICY
1. LAND POLICY REVEtOPKIENI                                         1.Sl0. 9  99.2       -    -      13. B  0.8   1. 815. 7   8.7    1, 396. t    419.7         -
2. ViLLAGE tENURCATION                                              2.667. 4  77.9        -    -    812.4 22. 1  3.679. 7  17.6      t. 770. 3  1.909. 4
3. VIllAGE lIl1ING MND REGISIRAIION                                   952.2  97.8        -    -      21.8  2.2      974. 1  4 7        6S2.8    291.2
4. OEPiTY PROJECT COORDINAIION OffICE                                 302.7  95.6        -    -      13.8  4 4      316 6   1.5        188.4    128 2
Sub-lotcl INSTITIITliCAL  STRENGTHENING. LAND POLICY                   5.924.2  87.3         -    -    861.9 12.7   6,786 1 32.4        4.037.6  2.748.5
C. REGIONAL AND DISIRICI fORESI SERVICE SlRENGIIHEiING
1. IN ZA REGIONAL FORESIRY PROGRAN                                  3. 125. 6  93.9            -    275. 1 8. 1  3,400.7  16.2       2,455.2    945.5
2. TABORA REGIONAt FOOESIRi PROGRAJI
36808£ FORESTRiY PfRA                                            4.710.2  92.2        -    -    399.4  7.8   5.109 6  24 4        3.794.3  1,315.3
1ABORA RESEARCI PROGRH                                             606.5  92.                     52.2  7.9      658.7   3.1        353.7    305.0           -
Sub-lotal IASO    REGiONtL FORESTRY PROGRAM                         S.,316.8  92 2        -         45t.5  7 8   S, 768. 3  27. 6    4. 147.9  3.620. 3
-- -  -    -- -  -- --    ---  --- --    ---  ........     ....... .  - *- .- -- -- - --  --- - -  ---- --
Sub-lotal REGIONAL AND DISTRICT FOREST SERVICE STRENGIHENING           8,442.3  92. t             -    726.6  7. 9   9, 69. 0  43. 8    6 603. I 2,565.8
Total Disbursne                                                          18.330.3  87.6   712.2  3 4  1,892. I 9.0  20.934 5 100.0    14. 146.7  6,787.8
ecer IS. 1991  14: 47
t- 0  CD
tD I0 X
CS



TANZANIA
fOllSI ESOURCf IWAUAGENENT PROJECI
fnircing Plan by Swinry kccosmts
Ws$I '0001
OTHER
IUt         fiNAECIERS    Coveumnat           Total                       Local
* _    _ -------- -----------  ----- -------  - -------------              It xI cI.  Dut ies   a
lt    I    Amount  I    Aimt   I               Ama        I    for. Exch.  Txaesi    taxes
L. IIVESIIIEI COSIS
A, CIVIL MMSS
1. OfIftt  BUILDINGS                          936.3  al.1         -    -    218.7 18.9   1. 155.0   S.S           449.6    705.4           -
2. fORESI 5111011 HUSING                        E5.6 100.0         -    -       0.0  0.0       65.6   0.3           9.8      55.8           -
Sub-lotal CIVIL VMOS                            1,001.9  82.1         -    -    218.7 17.9   1.220.6   5.8           459.4    761.2            -
B. VENICtES *1D EQUIPIIEMI
1. VEHICLES                                 1. 586. 1  100.0      -           -   -    -   1 586.    7. 6       1.427. 8    159. 0
2. EQUIPKIII                                2,786.4  87.5   397.0 12.5          0.0  0.0   3 181.4  15.2        2.227.8    955.6
3. AJERIALS  D10 SUPPtlIES                  1.310.3  99. 1    12.4  0.9         0.0  0.0   1. 322.7   6.3         994.5    328.2            -
-- - -   -- -  -- - - - -.--    -     - - - - --  - - - -   - - - -  -    - - -    .......
Sub-lotal VEICtES UIO EQUIPIIENI                5.683.5  93. 3   409.4  6.7        0.0  0.0   6.092. 9  29. 1      4. 650. 1  1. 442. 8
C. IfECHIICAt ASSISIACE                         6,550.8  927.4   172.4  2.6          -    -   6.723. 1  32. 1      5. 855. 6    867.3
T. IRAINING
OVERSEAS IRAIIIING                            909.0  89.2   110.1 10.8            -    -   1,019.2   4 9          962. 1     57.1           -
tOCAt IRAIIING                                417.3  97.4      11.3  2.6          -           428.6   2.0          51.2    377.5
..--  -    -- - . - - -  - -    -  - -     --   - - -  - - - -   - - - -  -   .......   -- --  -
Sub-Total IRAIIIIII                             1. 326.3  91.6   121.5  0.4          -    -   1, 447. 8   6.9      1, 013.3    434.5
E. STUDIES. IIOlSIIOPS. EIC                      125.9 100.0                 -           -       125.9   0.6          74.5      51.4
f. UOItiDAl) oN M11O SUPERVISION                  172.3 100.0         *    -       0.0  0.0       172.3   0.8         50.9    121.4            -
G. CASUALt tABR                                   227.4 100.0         -              -    -      227.4   1. 1             -    227.4           -
H. OIlER                                        1,026.3 100.0               -       0.0  0.0   1. 026.3   4.9        803.2    223 1
Fatal IHIVESIlfIE   COSTS                         16. 114.3  94.6   703.3  4.1    218.7  1.3  17,036.2  81.4    12,907.1  4,129.1
II. RECURRENtI COSIS
A. INCRElENITAL  STAFF                           392.9  36.3         *    -    689. 1 63.7   1, 082.0   5.2              -  1,082.0
B. OPERAI ION AND FIIINEAUCE
I. VEHICLE OU                             1, 482.5  67.8        -    -    704.3 32.2   2, 6S6. 8  10.4       1.091.8  1, 95.0            -
2. BUItDOING 0U                               141.6  44.4        -    -    177 6 55.6        319.2   1.6          36 8    282.5
3. EQUIPIIEII AD  IATERIAtS OU1              117.7  63.0      8.9  4.8      60. 1 32.2      186.8   0.9          81 0    lOS 7           -
4. OIHER RECURREHI EXPENSES                   8I.2  65.8         -    -      42.3 34.2       123.5   0.6          30.0      93 5          -
Sub-total OPER4AF1 AD IIO AIIIENUICE           1,823. 1 64.7      8.9  0.3    984.3 34.9   2.816.3  13.5          1.239. 6  1.576.7
Total REtURREIU  COSTS                             2,216.0  56.8       8.9  0.2  1.673.4 42.9   3.896.3  16.6          1.239.6  2,658. 7
Total Disbursmnl                                   18,330.3  82. 6   712.2  3.4  1,892. 1 9.0  20. 934.5 100.0    14. 146.7  6. 787.8              -
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z:    .=== .==   =: . .... =-- z. =_z                                         .         z=
Dece.r 18  1991  14:47
0) 19D
S-ID  (9
ar DQ 0
t-fD   0 
(DI 
CD0.-



- 132 -
Annex 13
Page I of 3
*  ~~~6Is
-i                       I          III                                 !         I
a                                                          fl1i      3        
_  _ U_



- 133 -           ~~~~Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
_    -                        ..                             ..
, aI iIII'jI'jII!                                      I!I'' 
Smil'



VW                                           i              2i             _3                   4_                I
m                                    i    Lmiv   ,   **   ii   T   N   T,i    Sm    iv I NI  1 1                                 U I IV I 'I    o  * I   Nlz  T    IV "]   I IN   T  |
ft*"
Trai ntn
Smiv Tanre
$%T"
gm  d .Ro*wain Ac"d__.
S. Of     *mn  Fo. hIn Mw    t
1. k
ftmum                               - 
-n mid now"i
Faust Reoraam and Traibk_
F_ Ext hI  h3Id Diulo
Fhm Ext. In 3 adinal D*
Extmnmion MAatwkal
VaeWadiand Maonagmen
Load Reserdi mid Oawapmuit
busm. CAMadUon
2. TA*Or
Voegtaidon Mapping
Feorent  em.anagmn
voaw Woodand M#mL linild dk&ketel
VEage Womiend Mewt. (a"dional dkt.1
Applad Pemarob
Trow" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      o
0w
ES_"i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wee  " _                                                     -                                           W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



- 135 -
Annex 14
Eg I  of 7
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.        Bank Supervision InDut. The staff input indicated in Table of this Annex is in
addition to staff time in the office needed for the review of progress reports, procurement
actions, correspondence, donor coordination outside of supervision mnissions, etc. Staff time
in the office is estimated for this project as follows:
Project year 1:            6 staff-weeks
Project year 2:            4 staff-weeks
Project year 3:            4 staff-weeks
Project year 4:            5 staff-weeks
Project year 5:            3 staff-weeks
Project year 6:            3 staff-weeks
Due to the system of parallel co-financing with two different donor agencies, donor
coordination activities are expected to require considerable time during the first two years of
project implementation. IDA supervision missions will normally be composed of the task
manager and a procurement/disbursement expert. Bank and consultant specialist staff will be
used as needed and indicated in Table 1.
2.        Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    Annual Work Plans (AWP) and Budgets are to be submitted as follows:
(i)     in the form outined in Appendix 2;
(ii)     by December 31 of the preceding year for submission to IDA for
its review;
(iii)    by the Project Coordinator.
(b)    Progress Reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i)     in a format, acceptable to IDA, to be discussed in detail during the
first supervision mission after project effectiveness;
(ii)     semi-annually by July 31 and December 31 of each year;
(iii)    by the Project Coordinator.



- 136 -
Anmex 1
Page 2 of 7
Appendix 1
(c)    Project monitoring and coordination wil be the responsibility of the PC with
inputs from all chiefs of the individual project components. Review meetings will
be held by the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) normally in mid-March and
mid-November of each year.
(d)    Certified project accounts (together with auditors' report ane separate auditors'
opinion on the Special Account and SOEs for each Fiscal Year) would be
submitted to IDA not later than by end-March of the following year.
3.        MTNRE/FBD and MLHUD/SMD will be responsible for coordinating
arrangements for IDA supervision missions and for providing information required by
missions. Missions will also work closely with the treasury. Missions will normally be
accompanied by the PC and FBD and SMD specialists, as needed. Mission initiation
briefings, and wrap-up meetings, will normally be chaired by the P.S. of MTNRE.
4.        Efforts will be made to conduct supervision missions jointly with ODA and
NORAD who are cofinancing the project.



- 137 -
Annex 14
Page 3 of 7
Table 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENI PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate
Dae                                                         Expected Skills            Staff Input
(MonthtYearl                  Activity                          Reauirements             C&M-wo9"
3-5/92          1st Supervision Mission (Project Launch    Forestry                                S
Workshop)                             Procurement/Disbursement/Audits
Organization
PY 93
10-11/92        2nd Supervision Mission and 1st Annual   Porestry                                  5
Project Progress Review with GoT and  Procurement/Disbursement
Donors (also inputs into prepration of  Training
AWP, and review of training program).
4-5/93          3rd Supervision Mission, review of     Economist/Financial Analyst                 6
design of revenue reporting system,   Forestry/Forest Management
Forestry Regional Plans, in Mwanza and    Lands/Procurement/Disbursement
Tabora, and village demarcation.      Accounting
FY94
10-11/93        4th Supervision Mission and 2nd Annual   Forestry/Lands                            5
Project Progress Review with Got and  Procurement/Disbursement
donors (also inputs into preparation of
AWP).
1-3/94          Review of Land Studies                 Land/Forestry                              4
Economist
Lawyer
4-5/94          5th Supervision Mission; includes review    Economist                              S
of long-term fnancing plan.           Lands/Forestry
pY 9S
10-11/94        6th Supervision Mission and 3rd Annual   Forestry/Lands                           4
Project Progress Review; includes review
of natural resource maps.
3-5/95          7th Supervision Mission and Mid-term   Forestry                                    8
Review (including examining possible  Lands
expansion of project to cover all regions    Economist
in Mwanza and Tabora and wider        Procurement/Disbursnement
coverage of village demarcation).     Audit
Organization/Management



- 138 -
Annex 14
Page 4 of 7
Table 1
EY9                                                                                                 4
10-11/95        8th Supervision Mission and 4th Annual    Forestry/Lands
Project Progress Review.               Procurmment/Disbursement
4-5/96           9th Supervision Mission                                                            4
7Y 97
10-11/96         10th Supervision Mission and 5th Annual   Forestry                                 4
Project Pl gress Review                Disbursement
4-5/97           11th Supervision Mission                                                           3
EY 98
10-11/97         12th Supervision Mission and 6th Annual   Forestry/Lands                           4
Project Progress Review.               Economics/Financial analysis
Disbursements
4-5/97           13th Supervision Mission, including                                                7
preparation of PCR



FORIEr RESURCES MANAGEMf PROIC
~~Taci-                                       -Taret-
Prcioc Components md Aivitie                  Units                 Bad of Yar I              End of Ye  2            Ed  of Ye  3            i    loiet
units          *           Units                  Units          s         Us          s
1. Natra Resmu MonitornIMNt Policy
1. Natnl Nata ResMcns Mapping              S of coss                       35                        90                      100                  100
2. ResoucInbhrmation Cente
Procrementof Equipment                   Sofeods                         73                        77                       s0                  100
Ds Ac ition                              % ofccst                        17                         34                     so                   100
Technical Services                       mm                   6          SO             12         100         12          100          12      100
Traning
Microcompute com"es                    course$              2          40              4          80          S          100           5      100
Acceasfellowdhip                       courses              1          25              2          SO          3           7S           4      100
3. Royallty Collcion
Development of Dat bas                                completed
Impl_mntto of now reporti  sytem                                                 completed
Technical Services                       mm                  12          32             29         76          3t          100          38      100
4. Identification of best pacie                                                    completed
S. ,ongterm Fnacing Plan                                                           completed
6. FBD Building Rebbiiitaio                S of coat                                                  66                    tOO                   100
11. Stm nz    m Lsnd Pblicy or  lJtiutions
1. Lan Policy 
lAnd Law                                              completed
Pastoral and Common Property Regimes                                             completed
Land use planning                                                                completed
Foet law and tree management                          completed
Ian Make and Regisrion                                compIeed
2. Villag DemacationA r iding
Villages demarcated                      number             165           9            495         28         825          46         ItOO      100
Procuement of Offc  Equipment            S of costs                      43                        55                      70                   100
Prooremet of Field Equipment             S of cosw                       36                        37                      38                   100
Vehicls - New                            number              13                                                                         33      100
Technical Services                       mm                   I          SO              2         SO           .                               100
TmWnini  Workdwp                         units                1          so              2         50                                           100
m. M_v=ana  d Tb
1. Mwm
Development of Regional Pan                           completed
Phs   in of Dibiric                      units                                           3         50           3          50            6      100
Staff tained in Ext.sc                   units              30           48             30         48          30          41           63      100
Staff tied in Manement                   units               6           13             12         25          18          38           48      100
Extenion to houseolds                   units              S80           10            369         20         S40          30         1800      100
12



PmL  uamin       anhdthiA§n                 Units                                           End of Y    IEnd of Yew 3 Nd of Y 2                  i
13hison to Saciag ps                   uib IS                          13             36         25         54          3S         144      100
Extension to Schood                     units              18          10             36         20         54          30          IS0     100
Nuries osablidod                        units             216          10            432         20        648          30        2124      100
SoodlngProduces                         minlion             0.3         4              0.8       11          1.S        21           7.1   100
2. Tabomn
Development of Regnl Plan                            completed
Staff lraod in Extension                                                              I I        55         I I         55          20      100
Staff tined in Manageme                                                                4         20          t          40          20      100
Exnsion to huseholds                                                                 60           8        120          17         720      100
Extension to social roupi                                                             6          13         12          25          48      100
Extesion to school.                                                                   6           9         12          17          70      100
Nurseries establshed                                                                  72         13        144          27         540      100
Seedlings produced                                                                    0.1         S          0.2        10           2      100
I0 J.,



- 141 -
Annex 14
Page 7 of 7
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary Contents of the Annual Work Plan (AWP)
1.       Implementation of all project components would be carried out on the basis of
annual work plans and budgets prepared by component managers by mid-October each year.
These documents would be consolidated by the Project Manager into a project wide draft
AWP and budget by mid-November for (i) submission to the Project Coordinating Committee
and, after possible amendments, (ii) submission not later than by December 31 to IDA and the
treasury.
2.        The AWP and budget would include:
(i)     an evaluation of the previous year's performance and a discussion
on how the new program builds on that experience;
(ii      a statement of specific objectives (quantified targets) to be pursued
during the year in question and a description, by components, of
the activities to be undertaken in order to achieve those objectives.
This should be cross-referenced to the relevant sectors of the
Development Credit Agreement and Grant Agreements as well as
the Staff Appraisal Report. Significant deviations in the AWP
from provisions in the DCA/GAs and the SAR should be flagged
with supporting justification;
(iii)    detailed investmnent and recurrent (operating) budgets by
component, showing the human, financial, and physical resources
required to carry out the proposed annual program;
(iv)     training and staffing plans;
(v)      a financing plan, which indicates the source of funds for items in
the investment and operating budgets (IDA credit categories, other
donors grant categories, Government counterpart funds etc.);
(vi)     targets for revenue collection; and
(vii)     procurement plans for purchases, works and services scheduled in
the AWP, including type of procurement/bidding and timetables.
3.        The annual planning and budgeting system, to be practical, should form part of an
integrated planning, financial control/accounting and monitoring/reporting system. This
system would be established and operationalized during the first project year and should be
computer-based.



- 142 -
Annex 15
Pagre t of 3
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ACCOUNTING/AUDITING GUIDELINES
1.           General
The project involves six Government organizational units namely two
ministries MTNRE and MLHUD, regional offices under each Ministry (ROs), District
Councils (DCs), and a Project Coordination Committee (PCC), to coordinate project
activities. These guidelines which have been prepared to assist the PCC, would be
periodically reviewed during implementation and modified according to evolving
circumstances.
2.           Project Accounts
MTNRE, MLHUD, ROs, and DCs are government units and accounting
would be done on a single entry cash basis in accordance with Govermnent Financial
Regulations (FR). Project Accounting, tco, would therefore be maintained on a cash basis,
and project accounts would form an integral pait of the normal accounting system of the
respective units. However, in order to ensure that project funds channelled by 'he respective
Ministries are utilized wholly and exclusively for the intended project activities a separate
project account would be established at each of the involved two Ministries, ROs, and DCs.
To facilitate identification, a!! vouchers pertaining to project expenditures would be rubber
stamped "FRMP-IDA". At the end of the month each unit would prepare a summary of
project expenditures under the following headings:
Civil Works
Vehicles and Equipment
Technical Assistance
Training
Operating Expenses
(analyzed into Casual Labor, Staff allowances, Vehicle running expenses,
etc.,)
Each RO would consolidate its own expenditure Summary with the summaries of the DC's
wherever applicable, while the Project Coordinator's Unit (PC) in MTNRE. and the Deputy
Project Coordinators Unit (DPC) in MLHUD would consolidate their individual project
summaries with their respective Regional and District Data. The summarized final accounts
of the project would be in the form of a "Source and Application of Funds" Statement (Table
1), prepared from the consolidated oroject expenditure summaries compiled by the Project
Coordinator's Unit (PC) in MTNRE and the Deputy Project Coordinator's Unit (DPC) in
MLHUD), and the books described in para 3 maintained by the aforementioned units. This
would be the responsibility of PC.
3.          IDA Disbursements
The Project Coordinator's Unit (PC) in the MTNRE and the Deputy Project
Coordinator's Unit (DPC) in MLHUD would be responsible for the procurement of goods and



- 143 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 3
Appendix 1
services required for the project in accordance with IDA Guidelinesl/ and for making
withdrawals from the IDA Credit Account. PC and DPC would also be responsible for
establishing and operating the respective 'Special Accounts". PC and DPC would maintsin
separate IDA Credit Withdrawal Registers, and Special Account Cash Books based on the
formats given in Tables 4 and 5, to record their respective withdrawals from the IDA Credit
and the transactions put through the respective Special Accounts.
4.           Subsidiary Books and Records
Subsidiary books and records would be maintained by all the Units. Specific
minimum requirements are given in Table 6.
5.    Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
Under the IDA Development Credit Agreement, SOEs would be used for
disbursement on the following items:
Incremental Operating Costs comprising office supplies, maintenance
of vehicles and computers, staff allowances for field trips, cost of
Project Coordination and wages for casual workers;
Expenditures under contracts and purchase orders with values below
US$20,000.
PCC/MTNRE and MLHUD would be responsible for ensuring that an adequate system of
intrnal control with regard to all payments covered by the SOEs would be in force
throughout the project period. Under the system, SOE should be traceable to the project
accounts and the supporting vouchers and data should be available at the respective Ministry
headquarters with PC and DPC for review by IDA Supervision Missions and the independent
auditor.
Since ROs and DCs are only functionally related to the respective Ministries,
PCC would duly execute a memorandum of understanding with each RO & DC to ensure
inter alia proper accountability for funds and other assets like vehicles and equipment
channelled to them for the sole and exclusive purpose of project-implementation.
6.           Annual Accounts, Audit and Audit Reports
At the end of each fiscal year the following financial statements would be
prepared by PC and DPC for audit by the independent Auditor:
1/    Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans & IDA Credits - World Bank
Publications - May 1985.
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bani as Executing Agency - World Bank Publication - August 1981.



- 144 -
Annex 15
Page 3 of3
Appendix 1
PC
-     Project Accounts - "Sources and Application of Funds" (Cable 1)
covering all project activities;
-     Consolidated Summary Statements covering MTNRE component only;
-     List of withdrawals from IDA Credit under MTNRE component;
-     Summary of Special Account - A (Table 2); and
-     Summary of withdrawals made from IDA Credit on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) (Table 3).
DPC
-     Consolidated summary statements covering MLHUD component;
-     List of withdrawals from IDA credit under MLHUD component;
-     Summary of Special Account 'B'(Table 2);
-     Summary of withdrawals made from IDA Credit on the basis of
Statements of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) (Table 3).
PC and DPC would be responsible for the timely submissions of the financial statements to
the independent auditor for audit to ensure that the audit reports on the Project Account,
Special Accounts, and SOEs, are sent to IDA within nine months of the end of each fiscal
year as specified in the Development Credit Agreement and detailed in Table 7 to the Annex.



- 145 -
Annex 15
Page I of 2
Table 1
TANZANIA
Forest Resources Management Project
Sources and Application of Funds FY 199---
(Tsh'OOO)
Sources of Funds                                       Notes  This   Last    Cumulative for Project
Ref.   Year   Year   Period to Date
Government                                     (1)
IDA                                            (2)
NORAD                                          (3)
Other receipts (specify)
(Cumulative to date in USD/SDR for IDA)
Total:
Aonlication of Funds
Civil Works                                    (4)
Vehicles & Equipment                           (5)
Technical Assistance                          (6)
Training                                       (7)
Casual Labor                                  (8)
Staff Allowances                              (9)
Vehicle & Equipment
Operating Expenses                             (10)
Office Supplies                                (11)
Bank Balances:                                 (12)
Total



- 146- 
aem  .2 of 2
Table 1
Explanatory Notes to Sources
Application of Funds-Fy 199-
For the Year       Ld Yo
(1) Release of Government Funds
First Quarter
Second Quarter
Third Quarter
Fourth Quarter
(2) IDA
Direct Payments
Reimbursement against SOBs
(3) NORAI)
UJr4ect Paynnents
Reimbursements
(4) Civil Works
(Specify Buildings ConstructedfWorks cexecuted)
(5) Vehicles & EguiDment
Analysis by type & year of purchase
(6) Technical Assistance
(Analysis of Contract/Services)
(7) Traininiz
(Analysis by type & whether overseas/local)
(8) Casual Iabo
(Analysis by activity/region)
(9) Staff Allowances
(Analysis by type/region)
(10) Vehicles & Egui2ment Ooeratinu Exoenses
(Analysis by type in organitional unit)
(11) Office Suloulies
(Analysis by type and organizational unit)
(12) Bank Baance
(Specify)



- 147 -
Annex 15
Table 2
TANZANIA
Forest Resources Management Project
Summary of Special Account for the Fiscal Year Ended
June 30. 199
(US Dollars)
Receipts                                     Payments
Original                   Amount             Description   Category       Amount
ImprestlBalance b/f:
Replenishments
Balance c/d



- 148 -
Annex 15
Table 3
TANZANIA
Forest Resources Management Project
Summary of Withdrawals Made From ID-A Credit on the Basis of Certified
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) During the Fiscal Years EnAde
June 30. 199
W/A # and      Brief Desc.    Exp. Total      Amount         SDR Equiv.    Analysis by
Date                                          Claimed                       Category



TANZANIA
Forest Resources Management Project
IDA CREDIT - WTrHDRAWAL REGISTER
W/A Ref.      Brief Desc. of   Total Amount                           IDA's share paid direct (by IDA) or from Special AIC                       Analysis by
& Date        GoodstServ.                                                                                                                        Credi
Category
Financing    Category    Amt.li        Exc. Rate    USD            SDR           Tsh
_           %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
'.0
I/ In Currecy of Claim
IX~
H m
Ln



TANZANIA
Forest Resources Management Project
SPECIAL ACCOUNT CASH BOOK
Location ...                       Account #. .......................... mprest
W/A Ref.   Description"   Amount    Cost & IDA                 Date         Amt. in       Exc. Rate  USD         IDA Cr. Cat.
& Date                                  Cr. Categories         Descript.y    Currency
Debited                             of Request
>
m x
1/ Including Cridt Catc    Details and IDA Paymnt Advice Refei. tn                                                                              "
2a InlWing Offsho BaDoT Paymat Advice Rcfciuice.



- 151 -
Annex 1S
Table 6
TANZANIA
Forest Resources Management Project
Supplementary Subsidiary Books and Records
MTNRE/PC
Special Account Cash Book
IDA - Credit Withdrawal Register
Procurement Follow-up Register
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis & Amalgamation Book
Fixed Assets Register
Vehicle Log Book
Vouchers & Statements for SOEs.
Stock Book
MTNRE/DPC
Special Account Cash Book
IDA - Credit Withdrawal Register
Procu -.ment Follow-up Register
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis & Amalgamation Book
Fixed Assets Register
Vehicle Log Book
Vouchers & Statements for SOEs
Stock Book
Regional Offices (RO)
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis Book
Project Expenditure Amalgamation Book
Fixed Assets Register
Vehicle Log Book
Voucher & Statements
Stock Book
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis Book
Fixed Assets Register
Vehicle Log Book
Stock Book



- 152 -
Annex 15
Table 7
TANZANIA
Forest Resources Management Project
COMPLIANCE WITH AUDIT COVENANTS
March 31' 92
A.    Appoint Auditor with proper Terms of Reference despatch
copy of Credit Agreement and Disbursement Letter for
Auditor's File.
B.    Audited Accounts and Audit Reports to be submitted for         June 30' 92
each fiscal year commencing year ending
(a)    Accounts/Statements
Project Accounts (Table 1)
Special Account Summary (Table 2)
SOEs Summary (Table 3)
(b)    Audit Reports
Audit Reports (short form) on each of the above,
together with a long-form audit report commenting
on managerial aspects and internal controls
C.    Due date for submission of the first set of Audited             March 31' 93
Statements and Audit Reports
D.    Due date for each subsequent fiscal year's audited              March 31,
statements and Audit Reports, till the end of the project      following the
end of each
fiscal year.



- 153 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 2
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1.           Tanzania - Woodfuel/Forestry Project. Main Report and Annexes. ESMAP.
World Bank Document. December 1988.
2.           Tanzania Forestry Action Plan (four volumes). GOT Document. September
1989.
3.           Forestry Action Plan for Mwanza Region. GOT Document. August 1990.
4.           Forestry Action Plan for Tabora Region. GOT Document. July 1990.
5.           Draft Forest Policy of Tanzania. GOT Document. June 1990.
6.           Tanzania: Forest Resources Management Project - Preparation Mission
Report. FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. May 1990.
7.           Village Surveys and Titling and Resource Information Management
Components. Appraisal Mission Working Paper. World Bank. November
1990.
8.           Tabora Regional Component. Appraisal Mission Working Paper. World
Bank. October 1990.
9.           Mwanza Regional Component. Appraisal Mission Working Paper. World
Bank. October 1990.
10.          Working Paper on Women and Forestry. Appraisal Mission Working Paper.
World Bank. October 1990.
11.          Construction of Forest Department Building at Ivory Rooms. Consultant
Report. Appraisal Mission Working Paper. October 1990.
12.          Environmental Assessment. Danagro/GOT Paper. June 1990.
13.          Ecology and Sustainable Management of Miombo Woodlands in the Tabora
Region of Tanzania. Soil Survey and Land Research Centre, Cranfield
Institute of Technology/Institute of Resource Assessment, University of Dar
Es Salaam. January 1991.
14.          Tabora Regional Forestry Management Project, Phase I. ODA Document.
March 1991.



- 154 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
Appendix I
15.          Forest Revenue Collection in Tanzania. Silviconsult (Consultant Paper).
August 1991.
16.          Rapid Rural Appraisal Outline for the Mwanza Project. Consultant Report.
Post Appraisal Mission Working Paper. June 1991.
17.          National Land-Use and Natural Resource Mapping. Post Appraisal Mission
Working Paper. June 1991.
18.          Resource Information Center Component. Post Appraisal Mission Working
Paper. June 1991.
19.          Detailed final cost tables (isted in Annex 12). December 1991.



RWANDAMWAZA -
KENYA
-<sz                                                                                                                                                  g !\  I     I R.I \RI 
A3BURUNDIX^< -                                           >        A Xj '"' N            N  I5'I\I ' '}k                                                                                   L            / VlIll
-~~~~~~~) x                                    r ,kI,   ShInsIrsgd                                 I/ '                  
N y 0 )5Ci,  -/9F= '                                                                             s''                                    ,r\S/I)l\l TANZANIA
\ 7   lof-f ). 'J/'--                                                 <1l xlJu \FOREST RESOURCE
MPh-Ski i2>  K 1ida t \'TABORA  |                                                                                                                                        MANAGEMENT PROJEC
801*      \                                  Ia ldbOra Jange '.                    s                                                    5                         .Village Demarcation
go                                                                                                                                       's  s t      '               Pemha    and Registration
Isl,nd
PlOt \  \ X  t   > TABRth§uwol    -  ,MWANZA   Vl                tD oo an
JABORA                     "'''tIUhZ-nibar                                                                                                 Titgln .Njed
0                  <                                               B E   t  dlOCK                                                                    $           ar lar    od                                 Regions Included in Ie
)          MIAIN oda                                                                                                                                                                    . 7 f-,yLodo  P Z * -  It, ;  Pilot ForestryPrograms
G.R.                              o                                                                                               oe                                                 nAs- included in
/         -- >                         /sl  *uiN;                                t            '. i; X   i    A                                    1971-73 Forest tveln
L. u) Ji "{ gR ',b'G11'A R~~~~~~~~~~~IVIT-a Alt8 0 /rlgai                                                                                                  Forest Resterres
Mssrs'gssrR FS SALA-M
dlsng.llyikd                                                                 '-                    R                    VL'Ash  U    M       JWIno,,?;    <C  ,,'                                 Li        Cam esr
t.ake                                                                           R                                                                                                                         Ga- R)~~ \-
/Z  \                                                     /                            3 /                                                                  National Parks
oc<uibassanga  * 0%) ( 7 /                                                    Kit OMTIBI,R,                   .                                  2 gK   g                             M.-i sarge Me
W~~~~nd ~~~Mai. gd,rd
-\ s'5                                          IA           l,0              5/ a                               l6+S;^ SE(I'3hlv Se-ondary Roads
Rail6ary
E   A                   /    ~~~~~~~~ . -  s   ; ~~~~~~~MIWVAP1   R\g    CaPSila^,a
ZA  eI   , Bl OCK  sdNii-   Caphal
rhn mo~pl ha. hero, prepnrd by                                                                                                           ,n-t- sBdow
lohitIs oore,ifCngbZesnLeeof r¢onvdle,s                                                                                                                           ""'¶{1""""'L..O   Mlcr dIsiernational Roondasien
nod  -s m    -noioely  lo' fho                                                                  S-gn                                                  /
olofrool use of The Worldod Poroh>                                                                                                                                       ! 
nod  rho  b-nodnr-erh-o
-o ths mrp do nor ihpn no the
p.,f sf The Wor/d bon G..up                                                                                                                                                                                    10 '1 \/I   
-nY jodger-nt on the lego 1                                                                             7_                                                                                         5          50p         50
OtOt`r  Ioorony     I y on
endo rse me nt or ocorodt nee olf                                                           oJ                       
oZclr bovndornds                             3*                   £                             /           3S32MOZAM BIQUE                                                              OtLtMf105R 0     5P    155    150    4
-Spse



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4 - sh7g                                                               4
i 32 <^A 3i r~~~~~~~~,*                                                     l  o Shenyocgo 
~RIC'A
t            .   .1                             -o'$KNSeH   0~~~~~~~~~~I      . 
!~S ~                                  k ~          'KARt; _ -
.~~~~~~~~R IG¢S                  FOR ,rSt/MnEST. @EEVF\
MFA - .           ;        .DA=E.t...       i"r    NORTH UAL
~~~~~  FOREST ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~FR5
RESERVE            FORZTT RESERV$EX X E                                                J                   RER
LJGA'.'.- R Si i  FO.5ST 9 IVrs RI
GAME RE\ |SERVEYAMB
_ -            , WAL RIE                      UUIKteGWA
To Moo~~-do                          FOES REEV              -         -        -        HUA ---M=zAUGrA  FORESTRERV
UGANDA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~NOT
6                                                          FORE  a ST.liMA  '    <     ,RESERVEFE
r _ z ' . RESERVE
X  WALLA RIVER                --        u                                                                4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tYIKIWA 
/s/  GAMEPEESERVEB.A1M RQA
FToEST RESERVE /   FORET RESEREOREST
FOREST  FOR-,-.T RES E              F T                HU      FOREST RE fES
UGALLA~~~~ RGADA                       , 
GAME RESERV\'IEiAPILOETE
T.noenience o4 read err ord r                       _      _I I, e ,   e of TeeWoE
\~~~~~~~~~~~VAU M,.'  'FO/REST CERVE/' ..... '....../
FORESTUiHlFRSRSRE  
UGANDA ~ ~  ~      ~    ~     ~    SWNGL
KENYA         FORES~~ORET RESOUCEMNGMETPRJC
K~~~~~~~~~~~~fL O FOREST RESERVESNTARAEGO
010 21030 4,050 
KILOMUTERS                   O                   | \                 CLASS
NYtONGA  t\        V        . 
Th- mp 1- I... prepored by The Word ok's st.l -("lusly tOr he       RS          
ZIARE     irc Arreadr oF d  7s NORTHERNel                                                                  RESERVESolue f h UoldI|
-k G-p The                                             R Ad=d h. b-dAS                     C RhA R oS Eh
Ilp  ~ ~ ~~Scde                                                                      SUTKRdRSEVd
mopdo pl      ,IthepOeof Th W-  BonE G-pION CAIyTA RdESERV BOUNDARES
such boundrwries     ~~~32',                                    .        >      w n w                     34
) ZA ASOALIA                                                  TANZANIA
g~~~  E/ KN YA | FOREST RESOURCE IVANIAVEMENT PROJECT
9               ~~~FOREST RESERVES IN TABORA REGIO N
BURUNDp                                                    RI  B        A                    E ROADS  RESERVES BY CLASS
M I A R E  Af   ALaroWIme  0,                  -R NORTHERN RESERVES
_     .p                                          RAIOD                              CFNTRAt RESERVES
\   Dnr nSt9                                                      150~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISUTFIERN RESERVES
t T AN ZA N IA                               0  O SELECTFD CITIES! _ 
7   R  1          .                   (3  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~REGION CAPITAL  RESERVE BOUNDARIES
v      ( Z A ~~M B I A                                                                           _a
m   ~~~~~ ^~~~~1   S :;     8 ~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES                             |ENCROACHMENT V,'1THIN RESERVES        -
m    <       MALAWI    ~~~MOZAMBI1QUE                                                    I 
.^                \                      l                                                                                               sM



