Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
(Forest Resource Management Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated April 30, 1991
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1991, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant 
funds provided by the GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to an arrangement dated July 30, 1990, 
Page  2
between Japan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and International Development Association, collectively, the 
Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to 
administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing 
of certain  programs and projects supported by the Bank in accordance 
with the provisions of such letter agreement;
(B)
the Recipient has requested and Japan has agreed to make 
available a grant (the Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the 
cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in the Schedule 
to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth; 
(C) 
the Recipient has requested the Association to carry out the 
Technical Assistance; and
(D) 
the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on 
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section 1.01. The Technical Assistance shall consist of services 
to be undertaken by consultants (the Consultants) who shall, as far as 
practicable, have expertise in the following areas:
(a)
forestry and forestry legislation;
(b)
land tenure;
(c)
land use policy; and
(d)
forest services reorganization.
Section 1.02. As used in this Agreement, the terms "yen" and "¥" 
mean the currency of Japan, and the term "Consultants" includes 
individual consultants as well as any consulting firm that provides any 
of the experts referred to in Section 1.01.
Section 1.03. The Consultants are expected to commence their 
services on April 15, 1991, and to provide a total of 85 man-months of 
service between that time and December 31, 1992.
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Administrator
Section 2.01. The Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to 
secure the services of the Consultants.
Section 2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance 
on a grant basis the following expenditures in connection with the 
services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
international and local travel expenses; and
Page  3
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and 
reports, incurred by the Consultants in foreign and local currency in 
the performance of their services.
Section 2.03. The amount of the Grant to be provided by Japan for 
the Technical Assistance pursuant to Section 2.02 shall not exceed the 
equivalent of thirty-eight million, five hundred thousand yen 
(¥38,500,000).
Section 2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the 
Consultants shall be the responsibility of the Administrator in 
consultation with the Recipient and shall be done according to the 
Administrator's applicable procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator 
and the Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried 
out promptly and effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue 
appropriate instructions to its officials, agents and representatives.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants 
assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the 
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and all 
dependents of such personnel promptly to be provided with any necessary 
entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange documents and 
travel documents required for their stay in the Recipient's territories 
during the duration of the Technical Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, 
materials and supplies required solely for the Technical Assistance and 
reasonable quantities of personal effects of the personnel of the 
Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than nationals 
of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) 
and the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the 
Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for 
purposes related to the Technical Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent 
residents of the Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such 
personnel to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's territories 
reasonable amounts of foreign currency for their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants 
assigned to the Technical Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on 
behalf of the Consultants and such personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, 
levies and other impositions imposed under the laws and regulations in 
effect in the Recipient's territories on the Consultants and such 
personnel in respect of -
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and 
such personnel (other than nationals of the Recipient 
or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) 
in connection with the carrying out of the Technical 
Page  4
Assistance,
     (ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the 
Recipient's territories by the Consultants for the 
purpose of carrying out the Technical Assistance and 
which, after having been brought into such 
territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom 
by them,
(iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the 
Recipient's territories by the Consultants for the 
purpose of carrying out the Technical Assistance and 
which will be consumed therein or become the property 
of the Recipient, and
(iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories 
by the Consultants or such personnel (other than 
nationals of the Recipient or per- manent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) or the dependents of such 
personnel for their personal use and which will be 
consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn therefrom 
by them upon their respective departure from the 
Recipient's territories, provided that the 
Consultants, such personnel and their dependents shall 
comply with the usual customs procedures of the 
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's 
territories.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with 
any claims arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical  Assistance 
that may be brought by third parties against the Administrator. The 
Recipient shall indemnify the Administrator against any costs, claims, 
damages or liabilities arising out of, or resulting from, any acts or 
omissions in connection with the Technical Assistance.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall make available to the 
Consultants, such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, 
with the advice of the Administrator and the Consultants. If any member 
of the counterpart personnel fails to perform adequately any work 
assigned to him by the Consultants that is consistent with the position 
occupied by such member, the Consultants may request the replacement of 
such member, and the Recipient shall not unreasonably refuse to act upon 
such request.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section 4.01. The Recipient and the Administrator shall, from time 
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the Technical 
Assistance and consult on any reports prepared by the Consultants and 
the implementation of any recommendations made in those reports.
Section 4.02. The Administrator may use any reports prepared by 
the Consultants for any purpose that the Administrator may consider 
appropriate but those reports may not be made public except by agreement 
between the Recipient and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date, Suspension
Page  5
and Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its 
execution by the parties.
Section 5.02. The Recipient may at any time request the 
Administrator in writing to terminate the Technical Assistance.  Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Administrator, may 
after consultation with the Recipient, at any time suspend or, terminate 
the Technical Assistance if any circumstances arise that, in the opinion 
of the Administrator, interfere or threaten to interfere with the 
successful implementation of the Technical Assistance, the 
accomplishment of its purposes, or the execution of the Technical 
Assistance in accordance with the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement.
Section 5.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or 
terminated, the Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each 
other concerning any further action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section 5.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for 
the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the 
Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant 
that is not expended by the Administrator pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. The officials responsible for the implementation of 
this Agreement shall be:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Cable address:
Telex:
TREASURY
        41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA)
   64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
Page  6
America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Charles Nyirabu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Stephen Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE
Description of Technical Assistance
The technical assistance shall finance the following additional 
Project preparation activities: (i) revising forestry policy legislation 
by incorporating the latest policy guidelines arising from the findings 
of the Tanzania Forestry Action Plan into the development of a village 
common resources and forestry policy; (ii)  designing a structure for 
reorganizing the forestry services into a decentralized service with 
technical backup, monitoring and evaluation provided by the Forestry 
Department; (iii) preparation of a land policy as an essential 
preliminary to implementing the land demarcating and titling policy this 
would involve specific studies and support for a technical secretariat.
