Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2335 TA
               (Forest Resources Management Project)
                              between
                    UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 24, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2335 TA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 1992, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
Page  2
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MLHUD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Lands, Housing
and Urban Development;
      (b)   "PMO" means the Borrower's Prime Minister's Office
responsible, inter alia, for Regional Administration and Local
Government;
      (c)   "MTNRE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Tourism,
Natural Resources and Environment;
      (d)   "FBD" means the Forestry and Beekeeping Division of
MTNRE;
      (e)   "NVDPC" means the National Village Demarcation Program
Coordinator;
      (f)   "PCC" means the Project Coordination Committee referred
to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (g)   "IRA" means the Institute of Resource Assessment at the
University of Dar es Salaam;
      (h)   "RFO" means Regional Forest Officers;
      (i)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 17, 1990, and
December 21, 1990, between the Borrower and the Association;
      (j)   "Special Accounts" mean the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (k)   "DPC" means the full-time Deputy Project Coordinator in
MLHUD referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts in its
central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Special Account A shall be used to finance Project
activities for MTNRE and Special Account B shall be used to finance
Project activities for MLHUD. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
Page  3
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restri-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 com-
mencing July 15, 2002, and ending January 15, 2032. Each installment
to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2012, shall
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Page  4
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MTNRE and MLHUD with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and forestry management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall annually review royalty fees
and by July 1 of each year, adjust them by at least the rate of
inflation for the previous year, to ensure that their real values do
not decline and that the fee structure reflects the relative
scarcity of the resource.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that MTNRE and MLHUD
establish independent Project Accounts in the regions and districts
benefiting from the Project.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall by May 31, 1994, complete an
assessment of the long-term financing needs of the forestry sub-
sector, and thereafter ensure that adequate provision is made in its
budgets for the financing of forestry subsector activities.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than nine months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                   to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Accounts was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   FBD has seconded a graduate forester to Mwanza and
another to Tabora to work as Regional Forest Extension Officers; and
      (b)   MLHUD has appointed the DPC, referred to in paragraph 1
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 9111
            Dar es Salaam
            Tanzania
Page  6
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   TREASURY                41329
                   Dar es Salaam
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                         By /s/ Charles Nyirabu
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 580,000        100% of foreign
     for Parts A                                expenditures and
     and C of the                               75% of local
     Project                                    expenditures
(2)  Vehicles and                               100% of foreign
     equipment:                                 expenditures and
                                                90% of local
     (a) for Parts A           1,810,000        expenditures
         and C of the
         Project
     (b) for Part B            1,450,000
         of the Project
Page  7
(3)  Consultants'                               100%
     services:
     (a) for Parts A           3,740,000
         and C of the
         Project
     (b) for Part B            1,010,000
         of the Project
(4) Training and                                100%
    studies:
    (a)  for Parts A             580,000
         and C of the
         Project
    (b)  for Part B              290,000
         of the Project
(5) Incremental                                 100% for the first
    operating                                   three years of
    costs:                                      Project implemen-
                                                tation and 80%
    (a)  for Parts A             930,000        thereafter
         and C of the
         Project
    (b)  for Part B              720,000
         of the Project
(6)  Refunding of                470,000        Amounts due
     Project Prepara-                           pursuant to
     tion Advance                               Section 2.02
                                                (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(7)  Unallocated               1,620,000
          TOTAL                13,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means incremental
operating costs associated with Project implementation including
office supplies, maintenance of vehicles and computers, staff
allowances for field trips, costs for Project coordination and wages
for casual workers.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the development of its forestry subsector by strengthening institu-
tions and supporting activities to improve the management of forest
and land resources in Tanzania.
Page  8
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthening Natural Resource Monitoring and Forest
            Policies
1.    Production of national reconnaissance-level land-use and
natural resource maps.
2.    Development of a Natural Resource Information Center located
at the Institute for Resource Assessment at the University of Dar es
Salaam.
3.    Improvement and monitoring of the royalty collection system
through development of a forest revenue reporting system, pilot
implementation of a revised revenue collection system and feasi-
bility assessment for the collection of woodfuel fees for tobacco
production.
4.    Identification of best practices for forest activities.
5.    Preparation of an action plan for the long-term financing of
the forestry subsector.
6.    Construction of offices for FBD.
Part B:     Strengthening Land Policy and Institutions
1.    Assistance in the development of land policies including a
study of the most pressing issues in land policy.
2.    Continuation of the Borrower's program of surveying, demarca-
tion, titling and registration of village lands.
Part C:     Strengthening the Regional and District Forest Services
1.    In Mwanza:
      (a)   surveys and planning of the forestry extension program;
      (b)   reorganization and training of the district forest
service;
      (c)   development and distribution of forestry extension
materials;
      (d)   development of community and farm forestry extension;
      (e)   initiation of local research and development techniques
in home gardens, farms, schools and community woodland sites;
      (f)   improving revenue collecting and sharing; and
      (g)   improved management of trees, village woodlands and
forest reserves.
2.    In Tabora:
      (a)   carrying out vegetation mapping;
      (b)   carrying out reconnaissance surveys/inventories;
      (c)   development of a Regional Forest Resource Plan;
      (d)   implementation of forest reserve management plans for
priority reserves and representative villages;
      (e)   pilot testing of new approaches to trees and village
woodland management;
      (f)   carrying out applied research;
Page  9
      (g)   community and farm forestry extension activities;
      (h)   improvement of revenue collecting and sharing; and
      (i)   training for forestry staff.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Tanzania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works and items or groups of items for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $410,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $280,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Page  10
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall establish a Project Coordination Committee
(PCC) comprising the Principal Secretaries of MTNRE and MLHUD, the
Regional Development Directors of Mwanza and Tabora, the Director of
FBD, the Director of the Survey and Mapping Division in MLHUD and
the Commissioner responsible for Local Government of the PMO. The
Commissioner for Lands and the Director of IRA shall be co-opted as
needed. A Project Coordinator shall be appointed by MTNRE and a DPC
by MLHUD who shall form the secretariat for the PCC.
2.    MTNRE shall be responsible for the implementation of Part A of
the Project. Within MTNRE, FBD shall have overall responsibility for
the forestry related components. At the regional level, manage-ment
responsibility for component implementation shall be with the RFO,
who shall be assisted by a project assistant administrator on
administrative matters. The RFO shall report to FBD on all Project
related matters and shall assign day-to-day responsibility to a
Regional Forest Extension Officer to be seconded by FBD.
3.    At the district level, the District Forestry Officer shall
have overall responsibility for Project management and imple-
mentation.
4.    MLHUD shall be responsible for the implementation of Part B of
the Project. A National Village Demarcation Program Coordinator and
DPC shall be placed within the Survey and Mapping Division of MLHUD.
5.    The Borrower shall: (a) by December 1 in each year furnish to
the Association an annual report on the implementation of the
Project and a work program for the following year; and (b) there-
after review together with the Association, the annual budget of the
forestry subsector on the basis of the work program.
6.    The Borrower shall by the end of the first year of Project
Page  11
implementation complete the demarcation of about 165 villages, by
the end of the second year at least 250 additional villages and by
the end of the third year at least 250 more villages. Targets for
the following three years shall be reviewed and agreed upon during
the mid-term review referred to in paragraph 14 below.
7.    The Borrower shall by March 31, 1993, furnish to the Associa-
tion: (a) an extension program for Mwanza; and (b) a regional forest
resource plan for Tabora, all satisfactory to the Association.
8.    The Borrower shall by March 31, 1993: (a) furnish to the
Association the recommendations for the establishment of the forest
revenue reporting system, for its review and comments; and (b)
immediately thereafter commence implementation of such system taking
the Association's comments into account.
9.    The Borrower shall by the end of the third year of Project
implementation, evaluate the pilot implementation of the revised
revenue collection system and make recommendations to the Associa-
tion for expansion of the new system to all regions.
10.   The Borrower shall by the end of the third year of Project
implementation make recommendations to the Association as to the
need for and feasibility of making effective the charging of
woodfuel fees for tobacco production and introduction of the other
measures to compensate for the effect of tobacco production on
forest resources.
11.   In carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall by
May 31, 1993, initiate its activities for the identification of Best
Practices in Forestry, and by May 31, 1994, furnish to the Associa-
tion for its review a report of its findings.
12.   The Borrower shall by November 30, 1992, commence natural
resource mapping activities and not later than November 30, 1994,
furnish to the Association for its review complete maps and related
area statistics.
13.   The Borrower shall by October 31, 1992, initiate its study on
land policy and by March 31, 1995, furnish to the Association for
its review and comments the results of this study.
14.   The Borrower shall not later than September 30, 1995, carry
out jointly with the Association, a mid-term review of the Project.
Such review shall assess progress in achieving Project targets and
addressing key issues including: (a) lessons learned from the land
policy studies with respect to the securing of land rights for
villages; (b) the village demarcation and titling component's
success in resolving boundary disputes, securing tenure for village
and individual occupancy, and in improving land and resource
management; (c) the social, economic and environmental impact of the
activities related to strengthening the regional and district forest
services; and (d) progress made in improving royalty collection and
enabling forestry to become self-financing. Based on the findings of
said review, an agreed plan of action for the implementation of the
remainder of the Project shall be developed.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
(a), (3) (a), (4) (a) and (5) (a) for Special Account A and
Categories (2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b) and (5) (b) for Special Account
B. The Categories are set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
Page  12
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 for each of the Special Accounts, to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into each Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the respective Special
                   Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                   Association requests for deposits into the
                   respective Special Account at such intervals as
                   the Association shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which replen-
                   ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the respective Special Account such
                   amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                   as shall have been shown by said documents and
                   other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   respective Special Account for eligible expendi-
                   tures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Page  13
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of either Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the respective Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the respective Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in either Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
