Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25373
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-P9710; IDA-29180; TF-29203)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.9 MILLION (US$30 million equivalent)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
12/16/2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Cordobas (Nicaragua)
14.19 Cordobas = US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMUNIC                      Nicaraguan Association of Municipalities
APL                         Adaptable Program Lending
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CDD                         Community Driven Development
CONAGRO                     National Agricultural Council
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
FISE                        Emergency Social Investment Fund
GEF                         Global Environment Facility
GON                         Government of Nicaragua
IADB                        Inter-American Development Bank
IDA                         Intemational Development Association
ICR                         Implementation Completion Report
INIFOM                      Nicaraguan istitute for Municipal Development
MARENA                      Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MBC                         Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
MDP                         Municipal Development Plan
NGO                         Nongovernmental Organization
NEAP                        National Environmental Action Plan
NFAP                        National Forestry Action Plan
NPV                         Net Present Value
PCU                         Project Coordination Unit
PHRD                        Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PPF                         Project Preparation Facility
PROTIERRA                   Rural Municipalities Project
RAAN                        Northern Autonomous Atlantic Region
RAAS                        Southern Autonomous Atlantic Region
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                         Special Drawing Rights
SINAP                       National System of Protected Areas
UNCDF                       United Nations Capital Development Fund
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Jane Armitage
Sector Manager/Director:  John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Norman B. Piccioni



NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                      1
2 Pnncipal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              7
S. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               13
6. Sustainability                                                                   14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    15
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                   18
9 Partner Comments                                                                  19
10. Additional Information                                                          19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matnx                                 21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               33
Annex 8. Partner Comments                                                           34






Project ID: P007790                                      Project Name. RURAL MUNICIPALITIES
Team Leader: Norman Bentley Piccioni                     TL Unit. LCSER
ICR Type- Core ICR                                      IReport Date. February 11, 2003
1. Project Data
Name. RURAL MUNICIPALITIES                          L/CITFNumber PPFI-P9710;
IDA-29180; TF-29203
Country/Department. NICARAGUA                                          Region. Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector Central government administration (26%); General
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (22%), Other
social services (22%); General transportation sector
(19%); Sub-national government administration
(I 1%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD.   05/15/1995                            Effective: 03/28/1997
Appraisa(- 07/1511996                                MTR. 06/01/1999
Approval:  09/12/1996                             Closing  03/01/2002
Borrower/lmplementingAgency:  REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/INIFOM; REPUBLIC OF
NICARAGUA/MARENA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President       David de Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager.     Jane Arrnitage                           Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:      John Redwood                             Michael Baxter
Team Leader at ICR.  Norman B. Piccioni                       Luis F. Constantino
ICR Primary Author:  An ICR team composed of
Norman B. Piccioni; Robert
Crown, Gabnela Boyer; and Juan
Morelli.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, LN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly UnsatisfactoTy, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome S
Sustainability L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry.                        S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of lQuality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Rural Municipalities Project (PROTIERRA) targeted rural municipalities and local communities as
major agents for rural poverty reduction and sustainable natural resource management. Over time, the
project narrowed its scope from the broad, original rural poverty and natural resources management
objectives to a more focused approach of municipal development at the local level, and institutional
strengthening at the ministry level. The project further evolved to meet the urgent needs caused by the
impacts of Hurricane Mitch and the drought related to El Niiio. Indeed, its major success has been its
effectiveness in responding to these crises. The mechanism for allocating government resources to local
authorities and the subsequent ability of local governments to address priorities set by communities was
flexible, timely, and efficient as a relief tool for reaching the poorest and most vulnerable rural populations.
PROTIERRA managed to strengthen municipalities, empower communities, and increase rural family
income with results on the ground recognized unanimously as significant Yet challenges remain:
PROTIERRA did not lead to the level of tangible, sustained operational capacity that might have been
expected given the project's objectives, while natural resources management activities have been
underfunded under the project. These and other challenges are currently being addressed in a follow-up
project, the Second Rural Municipal Development Project (2000-2004).
The concept for PROTIERRA evolved significantly between its identification in mid-1994 and its approval
in September 1996. Its initial rationale was to assist the Government of Nicaragua (GON) in implementing
the actions recommnended in a 1993 National Environmental Action Plan (completed with World Bank
assistance) and a National Forestry Action Plan. These plans were supported with detailed technical
analysis, along with consultations at the community, municipal, and national levels. Analyses completed at
the time suggested that sound natural resources management could help create employment, and that
natural resources management through a demand-driven and participatory development approach was the
most sustainable means of doing so.
At the time the project was being prepared, the govemment had begun implementing some of the
recommendations of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and National Forestry Action Plan
(NFAP) with its own resources. It had created the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(MARENA) in 1994 and had begun refonning the legal framework for natural resources management. The
government had also accepted the idea that rational management of natural resources at the local level
could contribute to reducing poverty, and it was prepared to make grants available through municipalities
for such management.
This view reflected an ongoing trend in national policy in favor of decentralizing responsibility for a broad
range of economic and social development functions and transferring those responsibilities-and the
resources to meet them-to municipalities. The GON's strategy was to transfer a percentage of its current
budget resources to munmcipalities through untied block grants according to a specific formula, and to
improve the municipalities' capacity to manage these resources. The GON believed that this would create a
more sustained effort in economic development and poverty reduction. However, the process of developing
and approving a national legislative framework for such a system was slow and problematic because of the
government's lack of experience; this was compounded by distrust between political parties and their
concerns about the outcome of such a plan. The legislative action required to achieve this goal has not been
completed at the time of this ICR, while it has been included as an objective of a Second Rural Municipal
Development Project (2001-2004).
-2 -



The principal interlocutor during the preparation of PROTIERRA was the National Agricultural Council
(CONAGRO), a commission comprising ministries and agencies with an interest in rural and agricultural
development, including the Mmnistry of Finance and the Office of the President. CONAGRO identified the
Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development (INIFOM) as the appropriate implementing agency for
the project. Created in 1990, INIFOM is an independent agency with the mandate to strengthen municipal
governments and promote municipal development by providing technical assistance to municipal
administrations. At the time INIFOM was chosen as the implementing agency, it had never undertaken a
project that focused specifically on natural resources or that managed a program of grants for community
and municipality subprojects. Therefore the GON recognized that the project would have to be considered a
"pilot" action for the agency. However, INIFOM had an established relationship with municipalities that
appeared sufficient for taking on the task of offering additional services, particularly if given appropriate
assistance to do so.
The GON and the World Bank had also begun discussing a proposal under the Global Environmental
Facility (GEF) (1997-2004) to support Nicaragua's participation in protecting the Mesoamerican
Biological Corndor (MBC). It was proposed that the same unit implementing the GEF project would also
be responsible for implementing a component of PROTIERRA aimed at strengthening MARENA's
institutional capacity and its support of murucipal development related to natural resources management.
Once these implementation arrangements were decided upon, the GON and the World Bank agreed that
IDA financing under this project would support a broader range of municipal activities (other than stnctly
natural resources management) as part of a more general poverty reduction effort. Thus, the rationale for
the project was significantly altered in favor of supporting poverty reduction through municipal
development and the decentralization of financing for municipal activities. These developments are reflected
in PROTIERRA's general objectives, as stated in the October 1, 1996 Credit Agreement (2918-NI), of
reducing rural poverty and improving natural resources management, and more specifically in the Staff
Appraisal Report (Report 15562-NI, August 14, 1996) and President's Report (Report P-6966-NI, August
14, 1996) as to:
(a) Establish a mechanism based on municipal government and community organizations for reducing
poverty through rural mvestment in economic infrastructure, improved natural resources
management, and small-scale communal productive activities.
(b) Ensure that central government institutions acquire the capacity to provide a coherent overall
framework for making and enforcing natural resources policy while taking into account global,
national, and regional environmental priorities.
(c) Promote the long-term integrity of the biological corridor along the Atlantic slope of Nicaragua,
thereby helping to conserve key national and global biodiversity resources.
Financing for the third specific project objective was made available through the referenced MBC project
that was approved for GEF financing following approval of the IDA credit for PROTIERRA.
PROTIERRA's objectives were considered consistent with the poverty reduction goals of the 1994 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). Development indicators focused on the performance of municipal institutions,
the degree to which communities were involved in municipal investment planning, and the management and
targeting of municipal development grants to community subprojects. Outcome indicators for the natural
resources management objectives were limited to completion of natural resources protection legislation and
assistance to municipalities in developing environmental norms and land-use plans (See Annex 1).
- 3 -



The World Bank identified a number of risks to project success. These included nsks associated with
building new institutional relationships (in this case, at the central and municipal levels), installmg financial
safeguards in the municipalities and INIFOM, reinforcing the community participation that had been
developing within municipality governments, and harmonizing donor advice and support. Moreover,
mayoral elections were scheduled to take place in all the municipalities soon after the expected approval
date of the project, raising additional risks to the continuity of project ownership and legislative action.
(Mayors are limited by law to a single term.) Risk mnitigation measures included establishing specific units
within INIFOM and MARENA for project management and providing for contractual expertise that
operated outside the mainstream functioning of the mstitutions. The World Bank was confident overall that
existing political trends and countervailing pressures would minimnize the risk of declining government
ownership, legislative inaction, or resistance to change from entrenched interests.
3.2 Revised Objective.
Project development objectives were not formally modified during project implementation. However, in
response to natural disasters related to El Nino in 1997 and Hurricane Mitch in October 1998, project
resources were directed toward meeting the demands of the rural poor for recovery assistance. The scope
of project-financed subprojects was expanded to cover such critical needs as road reconstruction, latrine
building, seed supply, and water purification, among others. This became an important benefit of the
project, and the rapid disaster response channeled through the municipalities further validated the project's
rationale. Almost half (about 43 percent) of IDA disbursements for subproject investments were devoted to
emergency relief This response did not tngger a formal amendment to the credit agreement, although it did
lower expectations that subproject investments would, in themselves, produce a longer-term sustainable
development impact. It was expected that long-term sustainability would derive essentially from
institutional reforms, rather than through improvements in physical infrastructure.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three components (one of which was financed through a separate GEF grant):
(a) Rural Municipalities Development (US$35.3 million), which included four parts:
(i) Development of municipalities as decentralized service planners and providers, and promotion of a
more open and participatory model of governance (US$5.8 million).
(ii) Support for improving the institutional capacity of [NIFOM and its various organizational units,
strengthening the legal and financial framework for decentralization of governnent functions to
communities, and establishing a specialized unit to implement the component (US$3.3 million).
(iii) Specific support for informing, training, and encouraging communities and civil society to
participate in local service provision and to recognize and exercise their right to local control,
transparency, and accountability (US$2.8 million).
(iv) Provision of small grants for eligible subprojects proposed by individuals, communities, or
municipalities that conform to a municipal investment plan and can be financed within a municipal
financial ceiling (US$23.4 million).
(b) Natural Resources Policy and Institutional Development (US$5.1 million) for the support of:
(i) Institutional development of the Ministiy of Environment (US$3.0 million), including strengthening
of several key ministry directorates, preparation and dissemination of enviromnental and land-use
plans with local and municipal govermments, developing and improving legislation, regulations, and
studies to establish a framework for environmental sustainability, and maintaining an
implementation unut for the component.
(ii) An inter-institutional assistance program (US$2.1 million) designed to provide MARENA with
- 4 -



resources and capacity to assist other government agencies in fulfilling their roles in the
implementation and enforcement of environmental policies. These included the National Assembly,
the Judiciary, the Office of the Attorney General, police environmental units, legal affairs offices of
central government agencies, and the 32 municipalities included in the Rural Municipalities
Development Component described above.
(c) Atlantic Biological Corridor. This component was financed by a separate GEF grant of about
US$10.0 million. It was implemented through the Ministry of Environment. It included resources for
sustaining the Nicaraguan portion of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor through biodiversity
protection projects; involvement of indigenous communities, NGOs, and local authorities; and
biodiversity planning, information generation, monitoring, and evaluation.
Rural Municipality Development
The rural municipalities development subcomponents formed a logical package of technical assistance
investments that responded to the objective of establishing improved mechanisms for managing municipal
and community resources in the 32 targeted municipalities (out of 151). A thorough review had been
completed of the human resources, experience, and structure of the municipalities and, under a previous
project, INIFOM. Resources were provided to address the principal weaknesses in the system's financial
management, administration, and planning capacity. It became clear in the first year of project
implementation, however, that INIFOM was not sufficiently decentralized to provide the amount and
frequency of support that the municipalities needed to deal with their organizational problems. INIFOM
established and staffed new regional delegations for this purpose, but incurred additional administrative
costs in doing so (see Section 5.4).
The component also provided financing for incremental investments in community and municipal
development subprojects once they had been agreed upon by the municipalities and their communities and
had been included in approved municipal development plans. About two-thirds of the component's
resources were allocated for this purpose.
The system and criteria for awarding subprojects was complex. The first step in the planning and approval
process was the aggregation of annual conimunity investment proposals mto a municipal development plan.
Next, annual financing tranches had to be approved and secured from central authorities. Financing was
awarded only after a further project-by-project process of preparation, evaluation, and approval. This
introduced numerous filters through which the "demand" of communities would not necessarily be fully
reflected in the final decisions.
To be eligible for financing, subprojects were expected to fall into predesignated categories, such as
training and technical assistance for municipal and community leadership, public works, "green" natural
resources management, and "productive" projects.
Natural Resources Policy and Institutions
This component provided resources for a wide range of consultant and technical assistance services for
MARENA and other agencies with a role in environmental governance. The Ministry of the Environment
had just been created and resources were required to develop its functionality in several areas. The
component was designed to provide resources as needed to respond to a variety of immediate needs. It was
not, however, designed with a plan to bring together the diverse elements being financed and to focus them
on providing systematic support for MARENA's constituencies in the longer term. This weakness had been
- 5 -



observed in other World Bank technical assistance projects that pre-dated PROTIERRA. The component
also provided resources for technical assistance, and studies for other agencies with a role in environmental
governance. This was valuable short-term assistance. Nonetheless, while the component provided resources
in a timely and focused manner, it was not well designed from the perspective of achieving a longer-term
framework for addressing environmental issues.
3.4 Revised Comnponents:
While most of the project components did not substantially change during implementation to respond to the
crises created by El Nifio and Hurricane Mitch, the community investments subcomponent was modified to
become an effective emergency relief component.
3.5 Quality at Entry.
Before approval, the project met most currently accepted quality-at-entry standards in applying World
Bank procedures, policies, and safeguards.
The project enjoyed a high degree of ownership on the part of the GON. The GON concurred with the
World Bank's views that poverty reduction and natural resources management were important national
goals and that introducing a decentralized approach to meeting people's needs through municipalities could
be an effective developmental strategy. The government acknowledged positive experiences with
community-driven and participatory development, and quickly absorbed that approach into its own
strategic thinking on the role of municipalities as instruments of social and economic development.
The World Bank's safeguard policies were rigorously respected. A social assessment-dealing with gender
issues, indigenous peoples, and poverty in the westem region of Nicaragua-was conducted early in the
project preparation stage and appears to have been critical in advancing the concept of municipalities and
communities as the focus of the operation. Preparation also included an Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan, an assessment of NGOs and a thorough assessment of the financial and procurement capacity of
INIFOM, MARENA, and the municipalities in the project area. Adequate and measurable indicators that
covered output and input regimes were agreed upon at negotiations.
Project risks were adequately identified, although some of the measures proposed to mitigate these risks
were themselves risky or incomplete. In the case of LNIFOM, a study financed by an IDA Institutional
Development Credit (Cr. 2690-NI) diagnosed significant shortcomings in the Institute's capacity to provide
technical services to municipalities. An enclave-style project management unit was considered an adequate
measure to mitigate the project's considerable implementation risks. A sirnilar measure to minimize risk
was adopted for the institutional development work in MARENA. While considered acceptable at the time,
this approach did not fully account for the well-known difficulty in building long-lasting institutional
capacity through enclave units. INIFOM decided to integrate the project's implementation unit into its mam
organizational structure in the follow-on operation.
Considering the project's inherent risks, in most respects the project was ready for implementation at the
time of project effectiveness. Among other provisions, an operations manual had been developed (and was
modified after Hurricane Mitch to cover financing of reconstruction efforts) and an agreement had been
reached on the structure of a project coordination unit in INIFOM (also modified in the first year of
implementation) and terms of reference had been drawn upfor the coordinator and other key staff. A
management regime was established, on a pilot basis; it directed that most subproject lending be in the
form of grants to communities to serve the public interest. The project did not, however, adequately prepare
for the financing of "productive" subprojects that were to be made to individuals and groups in the form of
recoverable loans that could be used to establish "revolving funds." Municipalities did not fully anticipate
- 6 -



the demand for such subprojects, did not have a consistent policy for recovering the funds, and had not
established procedures for managing whatever repayments were made. As a result, municipalities held
monies (and m several cases, continue to hold momies) without clear guidance for their use. Fmancing of
productive subprojects focused on the private sector was suspended at the Midterm Review and was not
mcluded in the follow-on project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's first objective was to establish a mechanism, based on municipal governments and
community organizations, for reducing rural poverty through investment in economic infrastructure,
improved natural resources management, and small-scale communal productive activities. This objective
was met satisfactorily. The mechanism involved the formation of community groups that worked with their
respective municipal administrations to set priorities for allocating budgets, creating infrastructure, and
building local institutional capacity considered essential for long-term poverty alleviation. Municipalities
have reported an improved ability to manage and arbitrate conflicts over local budget matters, as well as
spillover benefits in assisting conflict resolution in other areas of community life. Surveys of individual
beneficiaries also show general satisfaction with the procedures. This mechanism proved particularly
responsive when national emergencies required municipalities to manage a significant increase in financial
inflows for emergency reconstruction (about 43 percent of investments). About half the investments for
"productive purposes" (which accounted for 15 percent of the total) were also devoted to emergency relief
operations. Investment decisions that emerged from the system also focused on municipal and community
infrastructure and management (about 40 percent of investments), which served a broad beneficiary base.
In contrast, investment in natural resources preservation and management did not emerge as a community
priority and thus accounted for only about 2 percent of investments. The composition of these investments
and the perceptions of community beneficiaries generally confirin the conclusion that the investments were
improving the quality of life.
At the macro level, the municipalities were supported by the use of a resource allocation methodology
based on poverty criteria (according to Nicaragua's poverty map) and targeted to rural areas (cities no
larger than 10,000 inhabitants). This was managed through INIFOM, which also provided technical
assistance to municipalities to increase their managerial skills and absorptive capacity. The result has been
a model for decentralized and flexible allocation of funds from national budgetary resources that could be
(and is expected to be) generalized as the instrument for overall GON decentralized budget management.
However, the sustainability of the mechanism has not been fully ensured. The potential for sustainability is
excellent at the local level because the mechanism has provided a model for municipal management that
has clear benefits. Moreover, municipal governments report satisfaction with incorporating the municipal
technical specialists, first hired under the project, into their core staffs. However, after the Midterm
Review, work continued at the central level to modify and improve the institutional arrangements for
supporting the municipalities, and it still continues under a follow-on project.
A new "Organic Law" (Ley 437) clarifies much of the ambiguity about INIFOM's role and responsibilities
as a provider of technical assistance and a participant in the management of fiscal transfers. However,
additional work has yet to be completed to fully integrate the fiscal transfer methodology under a different
authonty, as envisaged by the GON's decentralization policy. Therefore the sustainability of the system is
uncertain and awaits further legislative action, which is expected to be an output of the follow-on project.
The project was only marginally satisfactory in meeting the second objective: namely, to ensure that
central government institutions acquire the capacity to provide a coherent overall framework for natural
resources policymaking and enforcement that takes into account global, national, and regional
- 7 -



environmental priorities.
Within the MARENA framework, the project was able to support the establishment of an improved policy
and legal framework for environmental and natural resources management. Several types of training were
provided in all aspects of environmental management, which increased the knowledge and awareness of
managers and technical specialists and enhanced their ability to analyze and implement the GON's national
priorities. This included the staffs of MARENA and several other government agencies concerned with
environmental governance. Under this project MARENA also established "rules of the game" for future
environmental operations such as protected areas management and coastal zone management. It was
assisted in undertaking a companion project financed by the GEF that focused on biodiversity protection
(the third project component). With this environmental framework in place, the Mimstry was able to attract
new funding from international donors. Other important building blocks were also instituted, such as the
establishment of an Office of Environmnent within the Attorney General's Office to prosecute infractions of
environmental law.
Although legal capacity was strengthened, the functional capacity of MARENA and the other agencies
supported by project was only partially improved. In some regards, important framework conditions for
improved natural resources management were established. For example, the new frameworks helped
leverage additional donor financing for selected interventions. MARENA's work on regulations for land
titling for indigenous peoples fulfilled conditions for the GEF project to become effective. The Attorney
General's Environmental Office has begun to prosecute cases (though the penalties imposed by the courts
have been comparatively lenient). However, by the time of the Midterm Review, MARENA had not fully
succeeded in helping communities internalize natural resources management into their project-supported
investment plans. MARENA encountered technical difficulties in developing an adequate methodology for
commnunities to use in such planning. Moreover, the focus on longer-term issues of natural resources
management was often subordinated to other pressing short-term economic and social needs. To some
extent, these outcomes were influenced by recognition of the fact that other donors were also actively
assisting communities in environmental and natural resources management. Ultimately, about 2 percent of
subproject financing was used for natural resources management. This percentage was below expectations,
but is considered a credible outcome under the circumstances and reflects the low community demand for
such subprojects. The follow-on operation has adopted an improved approach to natural resources
management that builds on the lessons learned m this experience.
On balance, however, the project is considered to have satisfactorily achieved its objectives, as indicated by
the analysis of outputs by components below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall the outputs of the project were satisfactory as they related to the project objectives, with some
exceptions. The contribution of each sub-component, and its appropriate World Bank and counterpart
financing, is described below.
Objective 1
Institutional Development of Municipalities (US$5.8 million). Satisfactory contribution to institutional
development. Through this subcomponent, municipalities were generally able to improve their management
and technical capacity. A study carried out by the Task team shows that by March 2002, 25 out of 32
municipalities that received assistance had reached at least minimally acceptable technical, financial,
informational, and organizational capacity (as described below). Those that did not were very small
- 8 -



municipalities with limited financial and leadership resources. The project strengthened municipal capacity
to generate local, own-source revenue through better assessment and collection of local taxes and fees. To
this effect, the project assisted INIFOM in: (i) revision of legal framework of local governments finances;
and (ii) improved systems and manuals for local fiscal administration (standards and procedures, a system
of fiscal land and property registration). The increase in tax revenue collection had to do with improving
information, increasing the number of properties assessed, and developing better property valuation
methods. The increase in the rate of tax collections (an indicator of long-term sustainability) was much
greater for the municipalities assisted by the project than for a control group of municipalities that did not
receive financing from the project. Average increases in the PROTIERRA municipalities, classified into
three groups according to their initial institutional capacity, were between 54 and 350 percent, while
increases for the corresponding categories m the control group averaged only 23 to 58 percent. Beneficiary
perceptions of local govermment and their sense of empowerment also improved. In a survey of 1,200 rural
dwellers In the project area, most respondents felt that the project had served either their own priorities (42
percent) or those of the poorest segment of the community (32 percent), while only 5 percent felt that the
benefits went to the politically connected.
Almost all municipalities in the project area acquired the professional skills needed to implement
community participation and planning. All the municipalities created Municipal Development Plans
designed to set local priorities through community channels (so-called comarcas, non-administrative
geographical units for community participation composed of roughly 500 non-indigenous people). In most
comarcas, there was also an mformal community assembly and identifiable leadership that helped foster
participatory practices. These developments are likely to make strong contributions to the long-term
sustainability of both this project and the follow-on project.
Institutional Development of INIFOM (US$3.3 million). Marginally Satisfactory contribution to
institutional development. This subcomponent financed various initiatives to strengthen INIFOM's
capacity to carry out its critical role in managing the allocation of financial resources and providing
assistance to the municipalities. These mcluded the establishment of an implementation unit, strengthening
of the directorates of planning, and technical assistance for the design of a decentralization strategy and
appropriate municipal law. INIFOM, considered institutionally weak at the beginning of PROTIERRA,
improved its capacity through the management unit it established during the project. Eventually, it was able
to attract funding from other donors. Early in project implementation, INIFOM tried to improve its field
performance by decentralizing major advisory services; this step was well received by the municipalities.
INIFOM was not officially part of the central government and it did not actually represent municipalities
(as did the advocacy institution AMUNIC, the Nicaraguan Association of Municipalities, which provides
tangible services to municipalities in exchange for an annual membership fee). The Institute did not play a
strong enough role in the national decentralization debate, decisionmaking on municipal fiscal transfers, or
other policy matters of hlgh prionty to municipalities. After passage of the new Organic Law in 2000,
which clarified the role and structure of intergovernmental relations between INIFOM and the central
government and clearly placed the Institute within the executive branch, INIFOM began to have a clearer
mission and goals. Passage of the law, an important achievement of PROTIERRA, consolidated some of
the funding coming from other bilateral and multilateral institutions and attracted new sources of funding
from such organuzations as the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and the
Inter-American Development Bank (IADB). However, INIFOM needed to improve its performance within
this framework. At the beginning of the follow-on project, INIFOM still needed further reorganization and
strengthening. This is particularly significant because the strategy for increasing decentralization depends
on the institutional strength of INIFOM. The World Bank team acknowledged this weakness in the
Midterm Evaluation, concluding that "these deficiencies in the central government still limit the potential
-9-



sustainability of the system of inter-governmental relationships-the foundation on which overall project
sustainability rests." See section 6 on sustainabihty for more details.
Information, Participation, and Training for Communities and the Local Private Sector (US$2.8 million).
Satisfactory contribution to institutional development. To strengthen the influence of local communities
(comarca) with municipal governments, the project provided training and organizational skills for
community leaders, local civil society organizations, and NGOs, with training in citizen participation
mechanisms related to all aspects of the project cycle. This was a necessary part of developing the
participatory mechanusm for municipal budget making and priority setting. Feedback generated from the
communities suggests that it was done satisfactorily. By the end of the project, all but the three or four
smallest municipalities had municipal development and municipal investment plans that were built on the
community consultation processes. About 70 percent of the 1,200 rural dwellers surveyed agreed that their
communities had more access to the decisionmaking process now than they did prior to the project's
inception.
Grants for Community and Municipality Subprojects (US$23.4 million). Highly Satisfactory contribution
to physical objectives and institutional strengthening of municipalities and local communities in the
implementation of subprojects. The project aimed to finance eligible subprojects proposed by the municipal
governments and communities in four thematic areas. These were environment and natural resources;
municipal infrastructure, including rehabilitation; commnunity infrastructure, including small irrigation and
community productive subprojects, such as collective soil and moisture conservation, reforestation, and
farm forestry; and capacity building, including technical and legal assistance, training, and education. By
the time of project completion, about 43 percent of subprojects were for emergency reconstruction, 32
percent for municipal and community infrastructure, 15 percent for "productive projects" (which in large
measure also addressed food security issues), 7 percent for technical assistance for communities, and 2
percent for environment management. Many of the emergency reconstruction subprojects had a strong
effect on local productive systems and could have been categonzed as productive subprojects. By
themselves, these results would not have met normal criteria for the poverty reduction or improvement in
environmental management that the project had originally sought. However, the major success of this
subcomponent (and the project in general) was that it proved effective in responding to urgent needs caused
by the impacts of Hurricane Mitch and the drought related to El Nino. The mechanism for allocating
government resources to local authorities and the subsequent ability of local authorities to address priorities
set by communities was flexible, timely, and efficient as a relief tool for reaching the poorest and most
vulnerable rural populations. The tangible results were that some 500 kilometers of rural roads were
reopened and/or rehabilitated, more than 3,000 latrines were rebuilt, and thousands of water distribution
systems were rehabilitated. The project also contributed to short-term food security with the "Plan de
Apante," which reduced shortages of major food staples. In addition, approximately US$2.4 million was
transferred for 228 emergency projects in 292 communities within the 48 northem municipalities that
received project assistance after Hurricane Mitch. The productive subprojects focused on short-cycle crops
that require four or five months to show a fnancial return.
An additional intangible benefit of this component was that it gave municipalities an incentive to invest in
institutional development measures with longer-term impacts, such as improving fiscal/tax returns,
strengthening management of social and community conflict, and promoting good govemance.
Obiective 2
Institutional Development of MARENA (US$3.0 million). Satisfactory contribution to sector policy
reform, and marginally satisfactory contribution to institutional development. The project helped
- 1 0 -



MARENA take significant steps to strengthen its new role in environmental regulation and environmental
standards-setting. MARENA had significant impact in the framing of regulations and law in the areas of
forestry, fishing, water resources, territorial planning, infrastructure, and transport. An important
achievement of PROTIERRA was its impact on the institutionalization of the National System of Protected
Areas (SINAP). The methodology for designing environmental management plans was made more scientific
and technically sound, and incorporated lessons from other countries. Nine private reserves have been
legally constituted, four more are in the process of gaining legal status, and a network of private reserves
has already been created. MARENA has assisted in developing eight management plans.
MARENA also contributed to coordinated emergency activities on the Atlantic Coast in the wake of the
Hurricane Mitch. Social and productive infrastructure projects benefiting 90 indigenous and peasant
communities were implemented at a cost of about US$1 million. Projects to repair damaged infrastructure
(walkways, wells, latrines), warehouses, mini-aqueducts, and cacao dryers had a strong effect on local
productive systems. The sectors most strongly affected were construction, commerce, transport, and
employment of professionals (consultants and designers).
Finally, PROTIERRA supported reorganization of the Indigenous Lands Demarcation Commission, reform
of the decree creating the commission, and initiatives to get it approved.
However, the component did not lead to the level of tangible operational capacity that might have been
expected given the project's objectives. The Second Rural Municipalities Project is intended to achieve this
institutional strengthening of local governments on environment and natural resources management issues.
This follow-on project funds a facility specifically earmarked for environmental purposes, which addresses
head-on the problem of underfunding of natural resources management projects under PROTIERRA.
Inter-institutional Assistance Program (US$2.1 million). Satisfactory contribution to institutional
development.. The project assisted a number of agencies in improving their awareness of environmental
governance, and in providing tools for improving it. This included establishing a legal and policy
framework for natural resources management and institution strengthening for the functions in the Office of
the Attomey General for Environment and Natural Resources devoted to protected areas management and
planning. This component also achieved significant results in preparing and disseminating legislative
proposals, developing an inter-institutional environment plan (including the Army, the Police, the National
School of Sergeants, Judges, and the Attomey General's and Defense Attorney's Offices for Environment),
and creating increased capacity in natural resources management in protected areas and buffer zones,
coastal areas, and among local authorities.
The level of impact varned from institution to institution. Results of the institutional strengthening had the
least impact in the National Police. MARENA found that this was partly due to the nature of police work,
which involves continually responding to crises and thus limits participation in the program. The
inter-institutional plan was implemented through capacity strengthening and training in environmental
monitoring, cross-institutional agreements that leveraged resources in favor of natural resources
management, and encouragement for bilateral agreements and information sharing among different
institutions. Through the project, MARENA also promoted the reorganization of the Indigenous Lands
Demarcation Commission and supported both the reform to the decree that created the Commission and the
initiatives to get it approved.
Objective 3
Promote the long-term integrity of the biological corridor. This component, financed by the GEF, will be
- 11 -



evaluated under a separate Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis presented in the Staff Appraisal Report focused only on a representative subset of
measurable benefits. The rationale was that if this subset was sufficient to cover all economic project costs,
the project would be justified; it was not necessary to estimate the other benefits, which are more difficult
to quantify. The subset chosen was the economic impact of the anticipated demand-driven portfolio of
environmnental, rural infrastructure, and productive subprojects to be financed through the Municipal
Development Component. For this subset, an estimated overall economic rate of return (ERR) of 15.3
percent was calculated. This figure includes the nonproductive components, which were expected to
account for about half (some 50 percent) of total project costs and for which no benefits were quantified.
The net present value (NPV) was estimated at US$15.29 million at a 10 percent discount rate, and the
cost/benefit ratio was 1.3.
At project closing, a samnple of 11 subprojects out of the 985 financed under the component were visited
and analyzed in order to quantify their financial and economic impact. The conclusions are summarized in
Annex 3. This annex presents the weighted expansion of the sample results to the overall project
component, including the subprojects portfolio. The new estimnate of the overall ERR was 14.4 percent and
the NPV was US$7 million, again assuming a 10 percent discount rate. The analysis was based on crop
and activity production budgets reflecting actual area and production changes occurred mainly in the last
four years, considering market prices for products and production costs. Labor costs were the only values
adjusted to 50 percent of the market wage, in order to reflect the huge ruraT unemployment rate and its
opportunity cost.
These overall results confirm that the project achievied satisfactory results. For the income-generating
subprojects, the above analysis should be balanced with the findings on sustainability discussed in Section
6 of this report, which concluded that the sustainability of investments in local subprojects was unlikely.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
This section considers the impact of the financial returns, also taking into account the sustainability and
governance aspects and eventual benefits of the mechanism used to provide credit. It is important to note
that while the financial analysis was considered positive overall, sustainability of the mechanism by which
the credit was provided is uncertain. This is the case for three reasons. Local govemments are not in a
good position to provide credit and manage repayment. Local governments lack the skills to monutor and
evaluate said projects. Finally, the fund adrninistrators did not have a clear stake in the success of the
productive projects.
The onginal Staff Appraisal Report estimates that as a result of productive subprojects, annual average
family income would increase by more than 60 percent by year 10. Fourteen farm budgets were created
during this ICR evaluation to model the impact and income generated by productive subprojects. Overall,
at year 7 productive subprojects yielded a 41 percent increase in annual family income (71 percent for
cattle subprojects, 12 percent in the case of basic crops, and 0 percent for poultry investments). According
to the models, the project contributed to an increase in average farm benefits (subsistence consumption and
income from production sold or bartered) of between US$362 and US$512. Rural electrification
subprojects, besides providing better living conditions, have resulted in cost savings equivalent to 21
percent of average farm income. In addition, rural electrification and other infrastructure subprojects
significantly increased the value of beneficiaries' assets, which is a good proxy indicator of the expected
financial returns from subproject investments. In some cases land values increased by as much as US$800
per manzana (a parcel of roughly 0.7 hectares), because of the construction of a bridge or connection to
- 12 -



the electrical grid. Accordmng to the analysis, most of the subprojects have had significant effects on family
income. Increases in famnily income are evident even in cases where revolving funds show poor recovery
rates. The exceptions were cases where crops or animals were lost as a result of natural disasters or other
climate conditions.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development was a major goal of the project and is discussed above.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
At the time the project was launched, municipal elections were taking place under Nicaragua's system of
term limits,, which requires replacing all sitting mayors. This placed extra demands on the project to
maintain contact and build ownership for the program, over and above the consultations conducted during
preparation, which had generally been productive.
Most significant for project results, during the first 20 months of project implementation, Nicaragua
suffered major damage through two natural disasters. The El Niflo of 1997 impacted subsistence
agriculture through the loss of seed and basic breeding stock. Hurricane Mitch in October 1998 caused
major disruption of transport, sanitation, and social services. The Bank had proposed using a phased
approach to mitigate the risks associated with undertakmg a major effort in institution building, while
simultaneously implementing an ambitious plan to decentralize municipal finance with new planning
systems and subprojects. This plan was made somewhat redundant by the demands for immediate and
short-term assistance to respond to the natural disasters, first through productive projects supporting the
national seed plan (plan siembra), and later by rebuilding community infrastructure (roads, latrines,
schools, health services).
The shift in focus to reconstruction subprojects nonetheless contributed to longer-term structural poverty
reduction and had the unexpected benefit of reinforcing the perceived value of municipal administrations in
managing investment activities. It also created conditions for a favorable balance between screening at the
central level and independence to act at the local level that reflected the comparative advantages of the
different institutions. However, it marginalized the issue of natural resources management.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control,
Macroeconomic factors did not appear to significantly affect project results- -apart from decisions made
during the pre-approval stages that deternined the project's basic design and objectives. However, had the
government been able to make more progress in achieving legal changes governig the fiscal reforms
needed to decentralize government spending to municipalities, greater progress might also have been made
in improving municipal managerial capacity and community involvement.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Within the implementing agencies (INIFOM and MARENA), there was a conscious effort to implement
according to the negotiated design of the project. Appointment of key project staff was conducted in a
timely manner. Procurement and financial management arrangements were respected. When needed,
INIFOM proposed and implemented its own restructuring to decentralize its services and mainstream
project management. Reporting was generally adequate and timely.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Within the overall financing envelope provided, costs increased in both components The increases were
financed from the unallocated amounts of the credit and the unused PPF allocation, as shown in the
- 13 -



following table. Increases m the costs of Component I (nrual municipalities development) are attrbuted to
INIFOM's decision to open four satellite offices. Cost increases in Component 2 (natural resources policies
and institutions) are attributed to the need for increases in studies and legal consultations associated with
the passage of the Indigenous Land Law, which was a condition for the effectiveness of the GEF-financed
biodiversity project.
Component and resources used                   Original       Revised     Percentage
(000s, SDRs)  (000s, SDRs)  Change (/%)
Component 1, Rural Municipal Development                _
1. Goods                                     480            741           +54
2. Works                                     70             100            42
3, Operating costs                           1,670          1,700         +2
4. Consultant Services                       2,790          ,3 18         +23
5. Subprojects                               11,320         10,696        -6
6. Training                                  700            780 _11
TOTAL, Component 1             17,030         17,335        +2
Component 2, Natural Resources Policies and Institutions
1. Goods                                     340            455            34
2. Works                                     70             112           +60
3. Operating Costs                           630            So            -S7
4. Consultant Services                       980            1,630         +66
5. Taming                                    210            462           +120
TOTAL, Component 2             2,230          2,739         +23
PPF Refind                 I,150          826
Unallocated                 940           O
TOTAL, IDA Credit              20,900        20,900
6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationalefor sustainabdlity rating:
The Bank and the Government of Nicaragua correctly recognized that achieving sustainability in
institutional development would require a carefully managed implementation process and an uncertain
amount of time. Therefore they adopted a phased approach to the development of the national institutions
involved. At the local level clear sustainability was shown by the municipalities: they were able to collect
taxes more efficiently and adopted the municipal development and investment plans as their own,
leveraging other sources of funding. In addtion, the municipal technical units financed by the project were
hired by the municipalities, at lower costs in some of the cases. This is a clear sustainability
accomplishiment. The story is less satisfactory at the central level.
By the time of the Midterm Review, it was clear that while progress had been made in reforming INIFOM
and establishing MARENA, further action was required. The proposal of the second project included plans
to eliminate the project coordinating units (PCUs) established under PROTEERRA. This measure was
intended to help strengthen institutional capacity by internalizing the responsibilities of the PCUs, rather
than maintaining a parallel implementation structure. The principal performance rating for sustainability
listed in Section 2 was rated as likely given the clear sustainability of operations at the local level.
Follow-on actions in a second project were designed to continue the process.
The SAR also discussed the sustainability of four additional aspects of the project (see Annex 5).
- 14 -



Local planning and participatory mechanisms. Dunng the first years of the project ,municipalities used
local community planning to select subproject investments. By 1999 all project-supported municipalities
were using Municipal Development Plans (MDP) and Municipal Investment Plans. These were prepared
with the appropnate participatory mechanisms. These mechanisms have reinforced the legitimacy and
dynamics of local political processes. Experience appears to have generated good practices for continuing
the participatory processes in municipal planning and priority setting. Moreover, participating
municipalities have acknowledged that having the community involved in the decisionmaking process adds
legitimacy to comnnunity choices, reduces social conflicts, and allows the local government and the
community to plan ahead. Sustainability is therefore likely.
Financial sustainability. The project strengthened municipal management in the area of tax collection and
self-financing, and provided further experience in financing municipal budgets in a decentralized manner.
With ongoing reinforcement of municipal financial capacity, the practice should continue to evolve. The
follow-on project also funds transfers through the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, similar to fiscal
transfers. These transfers are based both on equalization and incentives for tax collection. This municipal
fund is now part of the municipal budget. Fiscal transfers are being made through a formula that takes into
consideration several variables such as local revenue mobilization and poverty indicators among others.
but they are not codified in law. The passage of a law on fiscal transfers would be a key element in
consolidating the model and assuring its sustainability.
Sustainability of local investments. The sustainability of most of the project's investments (and their
development impact), particularly in community infrastructure (accounting for about half the investments)
will depend on the maintenance efforts. In order to assure sustainability of these investments, participatory
mechanisms in the selection of the investments allows for costs optimization; a sustainability plan and
separate operating costs must be available for each subproject. In this case, the potential sustainability is
low for the following reasons: (a) local governments are in the habit of building infrastructure but not
maintaimng it; and (b) the municipal technical ults are mostly agricultural engineers without experience in
these types of subprojects. A further 30 percent of investments were made in "productlve projects," many
of which were intended to meet short-term needs by alleviating shortages of seed and agricultural inputs
caused by natural disasters. These investments were financed largely through grants. In addition,
productive projects were also financed as loans or recoverable credits. Results were mixed because local
govermments are not in a good position to provide and recuperate credit. Moroever, local governments
lack the skills to monitor and evaluate such "productive" projects, and the fund administrators did not
have a clear stake in the success of the productive projects. As a result, the sustainability of this
subcomponent has been evaluated as unlikely and was not financed under the second operation.
Integrating environmental values in public decisionmaking. The project contributed to establishing the
Ministry of Environment, supported through the national budget. The project also contributed to raising
awareness at the national level for better environmental management and regulation, and supported a
substantial legal and regulatory framework for this to occur. In conjunction with the companion GEF
project, the project also has contributed to expanding the number of environmental protected areas whose
long-term sustainability will depend on continuing local and commumty support. Decentralized
environmental management systems were slow to develop under the project. However, sufficient
knowledge has been gained to include a National Environment Fund and a Municipal Environment Fund
mechanism m the Second Rural Municipalities Development Project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations
The new operation funded by the project explicitly incorporated the PROTIERRA Project Unit into the
-15 -



INIFOM organizational structure. INIFOM is now developing a corporate program that aimns to unify all
external assistance to the municipalities that is executed by INIFOM. The Bank's financing assists in the
implementation of selected major components of this corporate program and facilitates the corporate
restructuring of the Institute. The long-term sustainability of the transitional arrangements will depend on
the success of INIFOM m performing its new functions in accordance with the Organic Law and on the
outcome of a decentralization debate in which the second project plays a key role, particularly in the
definition and the passage of a fiscal transfer law.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending
Identification and preparation. Performance of Bank staff in these stages is considered to have been
satisfactory by today's standards. Staff were conscious of the need to align the project's objectives with the
goals of the CAS and to respect the Government of Nicaragua's priorities. They drew on available studies
and expertise to focus attention on the commnunity as a vehicle for natural resource development and its
potential for improving employment opportunities, and started preparation along these lines. They also
mobilized resources to support the government's preparation effort and assisted the government in
obtaining a Japanese PHRD grant to complete the preparation studies, and a technical assistance PHRD
grant to assist with the supervision of the operation. The Bank also adjusted its own support of the
preparation effort when it became clear that there had been a fundamental broadening in the government's
perceptions of the project's focus, evolving from the original natural resources management and rural
poverty objectives to include more general objectives of municipal development at the local level and
institutional strengthening at the ministry level.
The Bank team, which at that time did not have experience in municipal development per se, mobilized
additional expertise in demand-driven participatory development, municipal planning, and capacity building
to address these new demands, and consequently continued to be a credible partner in the preparation
process. As a result, the appraisal process was fully satisfactory in terms of process and coverage
(applying Bank policy and safeguards, integrity of processing, staffing, and conducting consultations with
stakehotders and government). It was also satisfactory in addressing the basic issues of institutional
development associated with municipal development and building a legal framework for MARENA. It is
worth noting, however, that preparation and appraisal covered about 27 months and involved a large
number of people (more than 25) covering a wide range of skills. Had preparation started from the
beginning with the modified municipal development objectives more clearly specified, project design could
have been more straightforward and efficient. This said, however, the process itself appears to have built a
collaborative relationship between the Bank and the Borrower that was valuable in managing the further
design adjustments during implementation that were required by the experimental approach in the project.
7.2 Supervision.
Bank supervision was clearly proactive and contributed to the process of piloting the project's main
activities. Part of this effort was devoted to completing basic elements of project design in order to meet
credit conditionality; however, it was also professional and responsive to the situation on the ground. The
Bank was also fully engaged in assisting the early implementation needs of the borrower and was
particularly effective in assisting the borrower to modify the project to address urgent needs created by the
natural disasters of 1997 and 1998 (El Niuo and Hurricane Mitch). Given that the issues facing the project
in its initial penod--prior to the Midterm Review--were essentially those affecting the establishment of the
necessary mechanics and basic implementation relationships, the supervision was also realistic in its ratings
of performance and implementation results. By the time of the Midterm Review, considerable progress was
also evident m the institutional development and the municipal development components. Feedback from
- 16 -



beneficianes was highly favorable. However, progress in the development of INIFOM, which was to be the
sustainmng element for achieving long-term development objectives, remained problematic. In addition, the
field presence of MARENA, also critical for achieving the project's development objectives, was slow to
develop. At that time the Bank could have been more modest in its ratings of development outcome (rated
as "highly satisfactory") and could justifiably have considered it to be a "problem project." After the
Midterm Review, a more candid assessment was made of the prospects for achieving and sustaimng the
intended long-term impacts, although the project ratings themselves were maintained as "satisfactory." The
Bank and the GON agreed to address these structural issues in the context of a follow-on project, rather
than restructuring the ongong project. Such a decision was justifiable considering that financing had been
largely disbursed by that time and a newly structured operation would have required additional resources.
New lending was a more cost-effective means of doing this than providing supplementary financing.
The process of Bank supervision m terms of frequency, staffing time in country, and reporting appears to
have been satisfactory, and Bank supervision overall would be considered Satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was Satisfactory (see Annex 6).
Borrower
7 4 Preparation:
The government's early preparation effort was fully satisfactory from a technical perspective. A decision to
change the leadership of the origmal preparation team, which was focused on natural resources
management, however, broke the rhythm of preparation and contributed to ambiguity surrounding the
purpose and objectives of the natural resources management components. Ultimately, the government made
a clear strategic choice: that is, to find a new model for managing financial relationships between the
central government and municipalities. However, concrete direction and content of this policy was not
available at the time, which hampered an efficient preparation effort. This illustrated the difficulty of
designing institutional development projects ex ante. The government's performance was satisfactory,
however, in locatmg the implementation of the municipal development components in an agency that was
mandated for the task.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government implemented the project in a satisfactory manner, m accordance with the provisions of the
credit agreement. However, it permitted ambiguities to persist concerning its decentralization policy and the
roles to be played by various agencies in implementing the policy (the Social Emergency Fund, for
example). This was progressively realized by the agencies themselves and clarified only as part of the
preparation of the follow-on project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
In its role of supporting the municipal development effort, INIFOM diagnosed its shortcomings early in
implementation. It took steps to improve its field presence to accommodate the needs of the municipalities
in the project area. It followed agreed elements of the project design, which called for establishing the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) as a virtual enclave unit, and met expectations for implementation
contained in the agreed operations manual. This was a positive factor in initiating the process of
development foreseen for INIFOM. It was not until after the Midterm Review that 1NIFOM began to
reassign responsibility for project functions to the various mainstream operational divisions within the
agency as required to achieve long-term institutional development. The task of pursuing this process was
assigned to the follow-on project. INIFOM's performance in all other project administration aspects
appears to have been satisfactory, , including its response to the emergency situation following the natural
- 17 -



disasters.
The new Ministry of the Environment, MARENA, also appears to have performed satisfactorily in
respecting the terms of the credit agreement and in recruiting and managing the consultants and studies that
were within its mandate. It also contributed to awarding and managing emergency subprojects following the
natural disasters.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance.
The project was implemented under special circumstances (the occurrence of natural disaster). Moreover, it
overlapped with the start of a follow-on project designed to continue development of the system for
financing rural municipalities, further improve lNIFOM's capacity to provide technical assistance to
municipalities under the new financing arrangements, and strengthen the operational presence of NARENA
in the field. This involved resolving a broader set of issues than is normal for a project. Taking these
factors into account, the borrower appears to have perforned satisfactorily (see Annex 6).
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons of this project experience relate as much to the management of the preparation processes as to
the actual outcomes of a completed project. In particular, the experience underscored the importance of the
following elements:
Early clarity of the rationale, the clear prioritization of development objectives, and the efficiency of
supporting components. While the global rationale for the project continued to be poverty alleviation and
natural resources management, the means for achieving this changed gradually but dramatically during
preparation---without being formally documented. This led to a change in the composition of the Bank's
preparation team, but was not sufficiently explicit to permit a broader debate in the Bank on other options
for providing Bank support. The situation also left a disconnect between the expectations and
accountabilities that were actually negotiated and the expectations that appeared m the credit agreement.
The project was approved before the Bank adopted a new methodology that includes the "Logframe"
format for project sumnnary to assure consistency within a project. The use of such a tool in this case could
have improved clarity. (See Annex 1)
Adequate readinessfor implementation. The project was undertaken with knowledge of the risks
associated with developing new institutional arrangements, and a desire to allow the process to evolve with
experience and to foster ownership by the municipalities themselves for the reform. The project adopted a
phased approach to allow this to occur, using PPF resources to conduct a small number of municipal
management improvements and subproject investments, followed by a staged increase in both activities. As
the Bank subsequently accepted, with the adoption of new "adaptable lending instruments" (Leaming and
Innovation Loans and Adaptable Program Lending), this methodology was less subject to classical
preparation prior to implementation as a means of managing risks than were more traditional projects.
However, adopting the pilot project approach also requires preparation of criteria to guide and evaluate the
direction of the learning and development process. This was lacking in the current project, and could have
been improved by explicitly planning such benchmarks ex ante. This said, the Midterm Review conducted
an ex-post review and thorough evaluation of performance, from which lessons were drawn and
incorporated in a follow-on operation.
Arrangements to monitor ongoingperformance. Related to the preceding lesson, when institutional
development is a critical objective, as in this project, it is essential to have both a system for monitoring
- 18-



progress that includes objective benchmarks, and a process for tracking these indicators by project
management. The project was not fully successful in establishing such a system, mainly because of its
reliance on data generated through an underdeveloped municipal management system that was difficult to
aggregate at managerial level. Improvements were made in the follow-on project, but the project could have
benefited from a separate monitoring and evaluation capacity established prior to project launch.
In addition, given the difficulty of measuring institutional development, it became clear that establishing a
baseline is critical for any monitoring and evaluation system. The project lacked a clear baseline with which
to accurately and efficiently evaluate the operation of PROTIERRA. For the Midterm Review, analysis had
to be compared to "control" municipalities and the evaluation took longer than planned. A baselne became
one of the conditions of effectiveness for the second operation.
Assessment of the social and environmental context. The project demonstrated the importance of
understanding the social context in which it would operate. Social assessment and the development of an
mdigenous peoples plan were very detailed and professional. Similarly, an analysis of the NGO community
was thorough. These analyses have contributed to the further development of community participation in
municipal plannig, which is one of the project's successes.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency*
See Annex 8 for completion reports prepared by INIFOM and MARENA.
(b) Cofinanciers
NA.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector)
NA.
10. Additional Information
Bank staff and the Borrower were aware that they were undertaking what could be considered an
experimental or "pilot" program that would eventually lead to improved policies and practices for
decentralized fiscal management. Although not explicitly stated, the experimental nature of the program
was evident in the description of the project's risks, and was confirtned in interviews with officials during
the preparation of this report.
By the time of the Midtern Review, experience showed that additional project support was going to be
required to make further progress in achieving the decentralization objectives. Therefore a Second Rural
Municipal Development Project (Cr 3480-NI) was approved that included much more explicit
decentralization objectives:
To improve the performance of rural municipalities for sustainable rural development and
environmental management in (a) the provision of local public infrastructure and the delivery of
municipal services; (b) the protection of the environment and the sustainable management of natural
resources; and (c) the promotion of local economic development.
To reach these objectives, the second project planned to use significantly different funding instruments,
institutional accountabilities, and processes that could not be efficiently introduced merely by restructuring
-19-



the existing project.
This experience illustrates the current Bank view-embodied in new lending instruments such as Learning
and Innovation Loans and Adaptable Program Lending-that fostering institutional development is a longer
term process that is best supported through a "programmatic" approach, rather than through fixed,
target-specific investment lending.
At the time of this writing, development of rural municipalities and their supporting institutions (legal and
organizational) is still underway and may require another phase of support. In retrospect, if a lending
model such as APL had been available in 1994/95, when the current project was identified, it might have
been an appropriate vehicle for Bank assistance.
-20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
- - ndicator/Marix .                Projected in last PSR  '-              Actual/Latest Esbimate'
Component 1. RURAL MUNICIPALITIES
COMPONENT
Institutonal Development of Municipalies a) As per last PSR. a) Municipality FM rated  a) Municipal development plans indude
Municipal Financial Management Indicator, b) "adequate" 14 (2 at appraisal); "moderately  budgets and fiscal transfers, other sources of
Expenditures, Revenues from Own Sources, adequate", 28 (3 at appraisal), "inadequate', funding are maintained or increased, 100%
Revenue from Fiscal Transfers, c) Municipal 0 (27 at appraisal)              of municipalibes have updated and
Technical Units; and d) Municipal Planning  b) Own revenue generated (growth  strengthened cadastre, b) Municipal
and Investment                        1996-1999, as of MTR) PROTIERRA        Technical Units have been incorporated in
Municipalities, increase of 160%, control  local govemment structure (source Baseline
group, increase of 29%                2001 for Second Rural Municipalites Project
(SRMP))
Infommation and Community Partcipabon a) a) 96 Assemblies are carried out in all  a) 90% of Municipalities use Cabildos (or
Participatory Planning Events,        municipalites, 63% of target municipalibes  Assemblies) as a parbcipatory process to
Intercommunity Assemblies and Community carry out partcipatory processes when  evaluate and select investments and about
Supervision Committees, b) Trained    allocabng funds, b) 73% of interviewed  100% of the municipalites have two
Professionals, Trained NGOs.          beneficianes in target municipalibes assert  Cabildos per year (source Baseline 2001 for
that rural sector servioes have improved,  Second Rural Municipalibes Project
66% of beneficiary and non beneficianes  (SRMP)) b) 68 7% of beneficianes asserted
consider that the mayor has considered them that the mayor resolved or responded to
in discussing Project prionties       community concems (source- Baseline 2001
for Second Rural Municipalites Project
(SRMP))
Community and Municipality Subprojects  954 subprojects (convenbonal and
Poverty, Gender Focus, Productve, Natural emergency)
Resources Management. a) subprojects  Perceived Social Impacts (as per MTR,
under effective use, subprojects targeted at  based on survey of 1,200 households)
poor; subprojects targeted at women, b) % of beneft the poor, 42%, benefit the enbre
sustainable subprojects, number of    community, 41 % gender not asked
households out of poverty             Sustainability poor
INIFOM and Decentralizabon no indicators                                     a) Policies and Regulabons Nabonal Policy
shown in Staff Appraisal Report.                                             on Decentralizabon approved, Conceptual
Framework on Modemizaton of
Environmental Management approved,
Organic Law of INIFOM and its respectve
regulabon approved; b) Technical Assistance
received: 23% (subproject preparabon), 19%
(municipal services), 56% (parbcipatory
planning), 57% evaluated INIFOM support as
satisfactory, 25% consider that INIFOM
handled disbursements effectvely (source.
Baseline 2001 for Second Rural
Municipalibes Project (SRMP))
Component 2 NATURAL RESOURCES
POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS
Strengthening MARENA a) Natural       a) Nabonal System of Protected Areas
Resources Laws passed, b) partcipatory  (SINAP) insbtutonalized and ratified in
IPDP and map of biological corridor.  additon to 8 other key legislative and
regulatory statutes, legal framework being
used by other MARENA projects
b) Participatory Indigenous Lands
Demarcabon Commission reorganized;
Indigenous Law consulted and drafted
Intennstiubonal Assistance. a) Municipalities 32 municipalites receive Environmental Land
with Environmental Land Use Plans, b)  Use Plans, municipalibes incorporate
events with Nabonal Assembly and Judiciary environmental aspects to Municipal
Development Plans
-21-



Output Indicators:
Indicatori/Matdlx                   Projected in last PSR'               ActuallLa e   stinmate
Component 1 RURAL MUNICIPALITIES
COMPONENT
Institubonal Development of Municipalities  Municipal expenditures, revenues from fiscal
Municipal Technical Units functioning;  transfers, 100% of the 32 municipalities have
Municapal development plans approved  Municipal Development and Municipal
annually                             Investment Plans
Informabon and Community Participation  Not available
parbcipatory events, training of NGOs,
Subprojects                           954 projects emergency, xx%; municipal and
community infrastructure, xx%, institubonal,
development, xx%; natural resources
management. 2%
Component 2 NATURAL RESOURCES
POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS
Strengthening MARENA institutionalized  Studies, maps of current use, potenbal use,
functions                             conservation potenbal for Leon and
Chinandega, environmental management
plans for RAAN/RAAS municipalites;
ministenal resolutons (protected areas,
licenses and permits for access to
biodiversity, Nabonal Huntng Season),
workshops, courses, seminars, and training
on environmental and natural resources
management
Intennstitubonal Assistance          AKtomey General's Office for Environment
and Natural Resources established
awareness in other enforcement branches
(udiciary, police, army)
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ mnillion equivalent)
'  -  :-  -  ~ -;. - -  -  : -         -Appraisal  Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate    -Estimate       Appraisal
Component .                   US$ million   US$ million
A. MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING
Institutional Development of Municipalities         5.07          4.70           0.93
Infonnation participation and training              2.56          0.86           0.34
Community & Municipality Subprojects               23.41         16.73           0.72
Institutional Development of INIFOM                 3.05          6.81           2.23
B. NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND                                              1.02
POLICY REFORM             *
Strengthening of MARENA                            2.68           3.35           1.25
Intennstitutional Assistance Programn               1.94          1.38           0.71
PPF                                                 1.05          0.80
Total Baseline Cost                                39.76         34.63
Physical Contingencies                             0.85
Price Contingencies                                0.88
Total Project Costs            41.49          34.63
Total Financing Required            41.49          34.63
-  --.  -  -Procurement Method  -
Expenditure Category     ICB                       Other        N.B.F.    Total'Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00         0.20         0.00        0.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)       (0.20)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.10         1.20         0.00         1.30
(0.00)       (0.10)       (1.20)       (0.00)       (1.30)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         5.60         0.00        5.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.60)       (0.00)       (5.60)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         2.52         2.47        4.99
Operational Costs           (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Subprojects or Grants    0.00          0.60        22.40         0.00        23.00
(0.00)       (0.40)      (16.40)       (0.00)      (16.80)
6. Training and Capacity     0.00         0.00         1.09         0.00         1.09
Building                    (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
7. PPF                                                 1.50                      1.50
Total                     0.00         0.70         33.22        2.47         40.4
(0.00)       (0.50)       (24.70)      (0.00)       (30.0)
-- V  -Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB    -    Other  -      ...       Total Cost
-23 -



1. Works                         0.00           0.00          0.00           0.04          0.04
(0.00)         (0.33)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.33)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.00          0.13          0.13
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.62)        (0.00)         (1.75)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.70)         (6.41)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (7.11)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00          2.93           2.93
Operational costs               (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.41)         (0.00)        (5.34)
5. Subprojects or Grants         0.00           0.00           0.00          2.18           2.18
(0.00)         (0.00)        (14.55)        (0.00)        (16.73)
6. Training and Capacity         0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
Building                        (0.00)         (1.77)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.77)
7. PPF                           0.00            .80             .                           .80
Total                         1.53           32.30         28.55           5.28          5.28
(1.53)         (31.50)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (33.83)
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
,  |                          1                               | ller~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pruiin ge of Appra'isal
Component      i1ppraisal Estimate                   -ciualfLatest Estimate              X *   - r l
.  Go. IDA  I  lI:nvt.  C.oIF.  ii.|;  Govt.  CoF.  IDA  COVL   ;Col.
A. Municipal Development  25.80     5.14      4.41      24.49      2.70      1.91     94.9    52.5   43.3
Institutional Development  3.14     2.69                 3.94      1.16               125.5  43.1
of Municipalities
Information Participation  2.57     0.27                 0.86                         33.5    0.0
and Training
Community &              17.20      1.80      4.41      14.55      0.27       1.91    84.6    15.0   43.3
Municipality subprojects
Institutional Development  2.89     0.38                 5.54      1.27               191.7  334.2
of INIFOM
B. Natural Resources      4.20      0.89                 4.10      0.63               97.6    70.8
Policy Reform &
Institutions
Strengthening of          2.91      0.56                 2.91      0.44               100.0   78.6
MNARENA
Interinstutional Assistance  1.19   0.33                 1.19      0.19               100.0   57.6
Program
-24-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Introduction. The economic analysis presented in the SAR focused only on a subset of the benefits: the
economic impact to be obtained by the expected demand-driven portfolio of environmental, rural
infrastructure, and productive subprojects to be financed through the Municipal Development component.
No benefits were attributed to the other two project components managed by MARENA (Natural
Resources Policies and Institutions, and the Atlantic Biological Corridor). The rational was that if this
subset was sufficient to cover all economic project costs, the project would be justified and it was not
necessary to estimate the other benefits, which are more difficult to quantify. Under this idea, an estimated
overall economic rate of return (ERR) of 15.3% was calculated, including the nonproductive components,
which were expected to account for some 50% of total project costs and to which no benefits were
quantified. The SAR net present value (NPV) was estimated at US$15.29 million at a 10% discount rate;
and the cost-benefit ratio was 1.3.
For the ICR at project closing, a sample of 11 subprojects out of the 985 financed under the component
were visited and analyzed in order to quantify their financial and economic impact. As done during the
appraisal period, the evaluation covered only the Rural Municipalities Development Component managed
by INIFOM, and it does not assess the other two components. The excercise was based on the analysis of
the following data collection and field research activities: (i) field visits to the sampled communities; (ii)
focus groups with beneficiaries; (iii) interviews with beneficiaries, administrators, municipal authorities,
and technical unit officials. FARMOD software was used to process the gathered information and draw
conclusions on the project's cash flow after on-farm consumption, farmly labor requirements, and debt
service.
The conclusions are summarized in a special document in the project files. This Annex shows the weighted
expansion of the sample results to the overall project component, including the subprojects portfolio. The
new calculation of the overall ERR was estimated at 14.4% and the NPV, considering a 10% discount
rate, was estimated at US$7 million. The analysis was based on crop and activity production budgets
reflecting actual area and production changes that occured mainly in the last four years, considering market
prices for products and production costs. Labor costs were the only values adjusted to 50% of its market
wage in order to reflect the huge rural unemployment rate and its opportunity cost. The above-mentioned
results confirm the conclusion that the project is achieving satisfactory results.
Financial Results. The appraisal document states that average annual family income would increase by
more than 60% by year 10. During this ICR evaluation, 14 farm budgets were built with FARMOD to
measure the financial impact of productive subprojects on beneficiaries' income.
On average, in year 7 annualfamily income is showing an increase of 41% for all productive subprojects
(71% for cattle subprojects, 12% in the case of basic crops, and 0% for poultry subprojects). According
to the models, the project contributed to an average increase in farm benefits (subsistance consumption and
income from production sold or bartered) of between US$362 and US$512. Rural electnfication
subprojects, besides providing better living conditions, have resulted in cost savings equivalent to 21% of
the average farm income. Additionally, rural electrification and other infrastructure subprojects had
significant financial effects on the value of beneficiaries' assets. Changes in the value of land, houses, and
other assets were considered a good proxy market indicator of the expected financial returns from
subproject investments. Land values show increases of as much as US$800 per manzana (roughly 0.7
hectares) attributed to construction of a bridge or connection to the electrical grid. According to the
analysis, most of the subprojects have had sigrificant effects on family mcomes. Even in cases where
revolving funds show poor recovery rates there were increases in family income, with the exception of
- 25 -



cases where crops or animals were lost as a result of the natural disasters or other climate conditions.
Economic Analysis. The economic analysis incorporated reduced costs (50%) for unskilled labor (to
reflect high rural unemployment rates). Donations and revolving funds received by farmers and
municipalities were also charged as project costs. Only poultry and traditional crop subprojects remained
unprofitable when adjusted to economic prices. At the aggregate level, the economic analysis indicates an
ERR of 14.4% and an NPV of US$7 million. The following table summarizes the findings for each of the
subprojects in the sample and the aggregated set of subprojects financed, including productive and
infrastructure investments.
Summary of Economic Results
-  - -~~~~ -A  ->                  I~~~~PROTIERRA,     R           NPV
SubpJojl'ects'         I     Type            Investment       %      (in OOOC$, 12%
'C-=''t'g  '.9 >;6:'-,A                     .         .         .'- ';~  i'.  ,  ' . ,(C$)  discount rate)
San Martin, El Sauce    Cattle                      174,510       44.8        1,443
San Luis, El Viejo      Cattle                      272,190       14.7          104
Sta. Teresa, Malpaisillo  Cattle                     83,724       34.9          424
Valle Viejo, Chichigalpa  Grain Crops               175,000        4.5          - 46
Pita-Pav6n, El Jicaral  Grain Crops and             180,000
Rural Access Road           594,000         1.3        -199
APANTE, San Juan y Z.C. Grain Crops               4,430,000       36.0         1,484
Achuapa                 Poultry                     294,800       -100         - 295
La Cuitanga, Chichigalpa  Infrastructure - Bridge   450,000       50.1          508
El Guanacastal,         Infrastructure - Electricity  468,000     39.7         1,419
Chichigalpa             Infrastructure - Electricity  340,000     15.7           64
El Trapich6n, Posoltega
Total Subprojects       Cattle, Crops,          220,000,000        14.4      83,940
Infrastructure
Prospects for sustainability for most of the subprojects are highly probable. The institutional analysis
indicates that sustainability at the local level is likely, thanks to significant achievements in municipal
capacity building, and particularly to revenue generation. The production and allocation efficiency of the
project's decentralized mechanism seems to be higher than other central government institutions working in
local communities in Nicaragua. The mechanism has the additional benefit of buildmg local capacities
through a learning-by-doing methodology. Because poverty, and particularly extreme poverty, are more
severe in remote and rural areas, building local capacity is essential for increasing the participation of rural
comumties in their own development. The only subprojects that have doubtful and in some cases negative
results are those for poultry and traditional grain crops. However, the latter were mainly in response to the
emergencies caused by Hurricane Mitch and by severe droughts that isolated the country during
implementation.
The following table summarizes the overall economic evaluation, weighting each type of subproject with
the resources invested in the corresponding category.
-26 -



Economic Costs and Benefits
ECONOMIC BUDGET
(In Million C6rdobas)          Without Project               With Project
1      3       5      10      1      3       5     10
Main Production
Basic Grains                         921    921     92.1   92.1    92.1  139.7   1179 1025
Oilseeds                             32 5   32 5    32.5   32 5    32 5   48 7   43 7  40 8
Vegetables & Rotos                     -       -      -       -      -     1 0    0 4  -0 0
Milk                                 24 9   24 9    24 9   24.9    24 9   344    45 2  62 6
Animal Products                      91 5   91 5    91 5   91.5   91 5    94 0    96.9 101 0
Comerce                                 -      -      -       -     0 1    05      1 0  1 2
Other                                 86     86      86     86      86     93      91   91
Sub-total Main Production             249.7  249 7   249 7  249.7   249 8  332 3  322 3 318 9
Subsistanse Products
Basic Grains                         73 8   73 8    73.8   73.8    73.8  1089     91 5  76 8
Oilseeds                              36     3.6     3 6    3.6     36     40      4 3  4 3
Milk                                  33     33      33     33      33     93     147  229
Sub-Total Subsistanse Products         807    807     80.7   807     80.7  1221    1105 1040
NetValueof Production                 1691   1691    1691   1691    1692   210.2   2118 2149
Consumption
Basic Grains                          0 0    00      0.0    00      00     1 6     07   00
Milk                                    -      -       -      -       -    00      00   00
Sub-Total Purchased Consumption         0 0    0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0    1 6     0 8  0 0
INCOME                              1691   1691    169.1  1691    1692   2086    211 1 2149
Production Costs
Investments
Sub-Total Investments                 -      -       -      -    10.0   23.2    21 2  2.0
Labor
Labor                                                           1 0     1 1    10    00
Sub-total Investments                   -      -       -      -    11 0   24 3    22 3  2 0
Operating
Sub-Total Purchased Inputs         54 9   62.4    69 6   75 2    54.9   97 5    82.5  78.5
Labor
Labor                           125 6   125 6  125 6   125 6  125 6   138.7  132 8 128 7
Sub-total Operating                 180 5   188 0  195 2   200 8  180 5   236 2  215.3 207 1
Sub-Total Production Costs            180 5  188 0   195 2  200 8   191 5  260 5   237 6 209 1
Other Costs
Other Project Components                -      -       -      -    30.2    30 0   10 0    -
Services                                -      -       .      -     4 5    9 3
AccessRoads                           00     00      00     00      28     49      05   05
Instalations                           -       -       -      -     1 2    10        -    -
Sub-Total Other Costs                   0 0    0 0     0 0    0.0    38 7   45.1    10 5  0 5
EXPENSES                            180 6  188 0   195 2  200 8   230 2  305 7   248.1 209 6
Cash Flow                             -115   -18 9   -26 1   -31 7  -61 1   -97 1  -37 0  53
Net Economic Benefits                  69 2   61 7    54 5   48 9    19.6   25 0    73 5 109 3
ERR = 14 4%, NPV = 83.94
-27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
09/1994                  2   TM (I); NATURAL
RESOURCES ECONOMIST (I)
12/1994                  2   TM (1); NATURAL
RESOURCES ECONOMIST (1)
06/1995                  4   SOCIAL SCIENTIST (I);
NATURAL RESOURCES
ECONOMIST (1);
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/1995                  4   TM (1); DISBURSEMENT
(I); NATURAL
RESOURCES SPECIALIST
(1)
11/1995                  2   LAWYER (1); INDIGENOUS
PEOPLES SPECIALIST (1);
01/1996                  4   TM (1); PROCUREMENT (I);
NATURAL RESOURCES SPEC.
(I); FAO (1)
02/1996                  5   TM (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
NATURAL RESOURCES
SPECIALIST (I); FAO (I);
SOCIAL (1)
07/1996                  5   GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
(5)
Supervision
01/22/1997                2   PROJECT MANAGEMENT             HS          HS
(I); PROCUREMENT (1)
02/10/1997                3   TASK MANAGER (I);              HS          HS
NATURAL RESOURCES (1);
PARTICIPATION (I)
03/9/1997                 2   TASK MANAGER (1);              HS          HS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1)
06/02/1997               11   TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC       HS          HS
FINANCE (1); SECTOR
LEADER (1); MICROFINANCE
(1); PROCUREMENT (1);
COUNTRY ECONOMIST (I);
TM (I); NATURAL
RESOURCES (I);
ENVIRONMENT (1);
PARTICIPATION (I);
PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1);
ENV. ECONOMICS (1)
10/14/1997                3  TASK MANAGER (1);               HS          HS
-28-



PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1);
NATURAL RESOURCES (1)
12/01/1997             6   TASK MANAGER (1);           HS         HS
AGRICULTURIST (1);
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
(1); MUNICIPAL FINANCES
(1); ENVIRONMENTAL
SPECIALIST (1);
INDIGENOUS PEOPLE SPEC
(I)
02/19/1998             3   TASK MANAGER (I);           HS         HS
PROJECT MANAGER (1);
ECONOMIST (1);
ENVIRONMENTAL
ECONOMIST (I)
05/29/1998              6  SECTOR LEADER (1);          HS         HS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT (I);
ENVIRONMENT PLANNING
(1); TASK MANAGER (I);
DECENTRALIZATION (1)
09/20/1998              4  TASK MANAGER (1); MIS (2);  HS         HS
INSTITUTIONAL
SPEACIALIST (I)
12/19/1998             3   TASK MANAGER (I); MIS (1);  S           S
INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
(1)
06/15/1999             10  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S          S
ENV. SPECIALIST (I);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST;
(1); RURAL DEVELOPMENT
(1); INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT (I); SOCIAL
SPECIALIST (2); PRINCIPAL
CONSULTANTS (2)
12/15/2000             4   TASK TEAM LEADER (I);        S          S
PROCUREMENT (I); ENV.
SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
SCIENTIST (1)
04/05/2001              1  TASK MANAGER (1)             S          S
10/16/2001             2   TASK MANAGER (1);            S          S
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
S          S
ICR
04/13/2002             3   OPERATIONS ANALYST           S          S
(I); CONSULTANT/ ENV.
SPEC. (1); AG.
ECONOMIST (I)
11/2002                4   CONSULTANT/ ENV. SPEC.
(1); AG. ECONOMIST (I);
-29 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
ICR
Total
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro polhcies                       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Sector Polhcies                       O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
Z Physical                             O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
Z Financial                            * H   O SU O M   O N  O NA
F Institutional Development            0 H   * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                        O H OSUOM        O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction              O H   *SUOM      ON   O NA
El Gender                        O H OSUOM        O N  * NA
O Other (Please specif)          O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Private sector development           0 H O SU O M     0 N   O NA
F Public sector management             0 H * SU O M     0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               0 H   O SU O M   0 N   * NA
-31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performnance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS       Otu   OHU
LO Supervision                                      OHS Os       OLU   OHU
Oi Overall                                          OHS Os       O u   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
OI Government implementation performance            O HS O S     O U    0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       O u    O HU
Oi Overall                                          OHS Os       Ou    O HU
- 32-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Gonzalez, Mary Lisbeth, "Evaluacion de Proyecto de Municipalidades Rurales," Nicaragua 1998.
Guadagni et al, "Local Governments and Sustainable Rural Development", (Latin America and Caribbean
Region Sustainable Development Working Paper No. 11, December 2000).
INIFOM, Implementation Report: 48 Municipalites in the North of the Country Affected by Mitch,
Program and Project Coordination, July 1999.
Nicaragua Rural Municipalities, Project Staff Appraisal Report, August 14, 1996.
Nicaragua Second Rural Municipal Project, Project Appraisal Document, February 21, 2001.
PROTIERRA/INIFOM, "Reglamento Operativo," March 1999.
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. Partner Comments 
Informe de Cierre: Instituto Nicaraguense de IFomento Municipal
1.  I[NTRODUCC16N
Antecedentes.
En marzo del anio 1994, el Gobiemo de Nicaragua, solicit6 la asistencia del IDA para la preparaci6n de
un proyecto que: (i) tuviera un gran impacto social sobre los grupos mas pobres en las principales
regiones agricolas del pais (Departamentos de Le6n y Chinandega en la regi6n del pacifico) y (ii)
retomara asuntos sobre recursos naturales en estas regi6n y en las areas forestales mas amenazadas por
la expansi6n agricola (Departamento de Rio San Juan y partes del Departamento de Chontales y de las
Regiones Aut6nomas del Atlantico Norte y Sur). Los departamentos y regiones propuestos ya habian
sido categorizados como de alta prioridad en el Plan de Accion Ambiental Nacional del pais, el cual se
complet6 en 1993 y fue apoyado por el IDA.
El Consejo Nacional Agricola (CONAGRO), solicit6 un proyecto que simultaneamente manejara la
pobreza rural y los recursos naturales y el cual fue consistente con la estrategia para paises del IDA.
La preparaci6n del proyecto financiado por el Gobierno de Jap6n, el Fondo para los Enfoques
Innovativos del Desarrollo Humano y Social (FIAHS), el Fondo de Fideicomiso Aleman y el Facilidad
Ambiental Global (GEF) comenzo en diciembre de 1994 y fue realizada por un equipo de consultores
bajo la supervisi6n del Consejo Nacional Agricola (CONAGRO), con la Asistencia de la Unidad
Regional para la Asistencia Tecnica del Desarrollo Agricola y Rural en Centro America (RUTA III).
Una misi6n pre-valorativa del IDA revis6 el proyecto en Agosto de 1995 y la misi6n de valoraci6n se
realiz6 en Febrero-Marzo del anio 1996.
Durante la preparaci6n, los objetivos de reducci6n de la pobreza rural y mejoramiento del manejo de los
recursos naturales permanecieron sin cambios, pero pronto result6 claro que estos objetivos se podian
alcanzar solo si en el proyecto se pusiera un fuerte enfasis en el mejoramiento de la capacidad de las
instituciones locales de las areas rurales (gobiernos municipales, ONG'S locales y organizaciones
comarcales) para desarrollar una comunidad coherente y planes de inversi6n municipales dentro de los
cuales sub-proyectos viables pudieran ser disefiados e implementados.
El proyecto entr6 en efectividad en el mes de Abril de 1997, y el lanzamiento del mismo ocurri6 en
Octubre de ese nusmo ano.
2.  OBJETIEVOS DEL PROYECTO
Los principales objetivos del proyecto que fueron propuestos, eran: reducir la pobreza rural y mejorar el
manejo de los recursos naturales. Estos objetivos podian ser delimitados mas especificamente a lo
siguiente:
o   Establecer un mecanismo basado en los gobiemos municipales y en la organizaci6n comunitaria
para reducir la pobreza rural a traves de inversiones rurales en infraestructura econ6mica, mejoramiento
del manejo de los recursos naturales y actividades comunales productivas de pequenia escala.
- 34 -



*   Asegurar que las instituciones del gobierno central adquirieran la capacidad de proveer una
estructura global y coherente para la realizaci6n y cumplimiento de politicas en recursos naturales que
respondan a prioridades ambientales globales, regionales y nacionales.
*   Promover en el largo plazo la integndad de un corredor a lo largo de la vertiente Atlantica de
Nicaragua, conservando valores claves de la biodiversidad mundial.
3. DESCRIPCCI6N
El Proyecto de Municipios rurales, se dividi6 en dos componentes, el de Desarrollo de Municipios
Rurales con un monto asignado de US$ 35.3 millones de d6lares y el Componentes de Politicas e
instituciones en Recursos Naturales con un monto asignado de US$ 5.1 millones de d6lares,
* correspondiendo el primer componente al INIFOM y el segundo al MARENA.
El primer componente de Desarrollo de Municipios rurales, tuvo a su vez, el Desarrollo Institucional de
Mumcipalidades, cuyo monto asignado inicialmente correspondi6 a US$ 5.8 millones, el "Desarrollo
Institucional con US$ 3.3 millones, *Informaci6n, participaci6n y Capacitacion a comunidades y al
Sector privado local con US$ 2.8 millones, y por ultimo, "Donaciones para sub-proyectos comunales y
municipales con un monto asignado de US$ 23.4 millones.
4. EXPERIENCIA DE EJECUCI6N
Organizaci6n.
En vista de la poca capacidad existente tanto tecnica como Administrativa-Fmanciera, en el nivel central
y en las delegaciones del INIFOM, se constituy6 una Oficma central que manej6 el proyecto, que se
conoci6 como Unidad Tecnica Institucional (UTI), y 4 Oficinas Departamentales, que se conocieron
como Coordinaciones Territoriales, una por cada departamento (Chinandega, Le6n, el propuesto
Departamento de Zelaya Central, y Rio San Juan).
Tanto la UTI, como las CT, fueron concebidas como unidades muy pequefias, que pudiesen apoyar al
INIFOM en el manejo del proyecto, sin embargo, por la apremiante necesidad de acompafiar a las
municipalidades en su proceso de planificaci6n municipal, y todo el proceso inversionista, estas
unidades fueron creciendo en personal y por supuesto en gastos operativos, llegandose a constituir, al
finalizar el proyecto (mes de Junio del anlo 2001), en unidades paralelas a las Delegaciones Territoriales
del INIFOM.
En el mes de Octubre del afio 1998, ocurri6 en Nicaragua, el Huracan Mitch, que afect6 fuertemente a
la infraestructura productiva y a la misma producci6n en los 23 municipios correspondientes a los
Departamentos de Chinandega y Le6n, por lo que el Gobiemo de Nicaragua a traves del INIFOM,
solicit6 a lo inmediato de la afectaci6n de dicho fen6meno climatico, la No Objeci6n al Banco Mundial
para atender con medicamentos, frazadas, lintemas, plastico negro y otro equipamiento de urgencia, a la
poblaci6n afectada. Pasada una semana del huracan, una Misi6n del Banco Mundial, se reuni6 con
todos los proyectos que dicho orgamrsmo fmanciaba en ese momento en Nicaragua, y se decide en
conjunto con el Gobiemo de Nicaragua, destinar una partida maxima de 11 millones de d6lares para
hacer frente a la reparaci6n de infraestructura vial, infraestructura productiva, y pequefnos proyectos
productivos, esto para los departamentos de Chinandega, Le6n, Matagalpa, Jinotega, Esteli, Nueva
- 35 -



Segovia y Madriz, y se autoriz6 fmanciar proyectos para la siembra de Apante a los municipios de
Zelaya Central y Rio San Juan, para lo cual se tuvo que elaborar agilmente, un reglamento operativo de
emergencia que fue sometido a No Objeci6n del Banco Mundial, asi mismo se solicit6 subir el techo del
fondo que se manejaba en el proyecto hasta US$ 3.5 millones, con lo cual se tuvo acceso a los recursos
de forma casi inmediata.
Cabe mencionar que en el uso de estos recursos financieros, se contemplaron los 48 municipios de los
departamentos de Matagalpa, Jinotega, Esteli, Nueva Segovia y Madriz, que fueron tambien seriamente
afectados por el fen6meno climatico, y adicionalmente 11 municipios de las Regiones Aut6nomas del
Atlantico.
Se fij6 para la ejecuci6n de los proyectos de emergencia un plazo maximo de tres meses, que luego se
extendi6 hasta 6 meses, y para el caso del Atlantico sobrepas6 los 8 meses de ejecuci6n. En los
municipios de los Departamentos de Matagalpa, Chinandega, Esteli, Nueva Segovia y Madnz, se
ejecutaron mas de 200 sub-proyectos, por un monto aproximado de US$ 2.3 millones, y en el caso de
los municipios de la Costa Atlantica cuya ejecuci6n se realiz6 a traves del Proyecto Corredor Biol6gico
del Atlantico manejado por MARENA, se invirti6 aproximadamente US$ I mill6n en casi 8 meses de
operaci6n.
Concluida la etapa post-Mitch, se suspendi6 el financiamiento para sub- proyectos en los 48 municipios
del Norte, continuando el proyecto su atenci6n a los 32 municipios establecidos en el Convenio de
prestarno.
Inversiones. Sub-proyectos
Durante sus cuatro anios de ejecuci6n en los 32 municipios, se llevaron a cabo 808 sub-proyectos,
invirtiendo un monto total US$ 10.25 millones de d6lares.
Del total de sub-proyectos ejecutados, corresponden 60 para el Departamento de Rio San Juan, que
equivale en terminos porcentuales al 7.4%, 29 sub-proyectos para el Departamnento de Zelaya Central,
correspondiendo al 3.5%, 375 sub-proyectos para el Departamento de Le6n, correspondiendo a 46.41%,
y 344 sub-proyectos para el Departamento de Chinandega que corresponde al 42.57%.
En tenninos de desembolso para los 808 sub-proyectos en los 4 afios, estos corresponden a 3.67% para
Rio San Juan, 9.04% para Zelaya Central, 43.18% para el Departamento de Le6n, y 44.09% para
Chinandega.
La ejecuci6n por afio para todo el proyecto en cuanto a niumero de sub-proyectos se refiere, se realiz6 de
la siguiente manera: 10.89% en el aino 1997, 34.77% en el 1998, 30.2% en el anlo 1999, 16.7% en el afio
2000, y 8.04% el afio 2001.
La ejecuci6n por afio para todo el proyecto en cuanto a recursos financieros se refiere, ocurri6 de la
siguiente manera: 10.52% para el afio 1997, 34.35% para el afio 1998, 26.54% para el afio 1999,
16.77% para el afio 2000, y 10.89% para el afno 2001.
En lo que se refiere al nuimero de beneficiarios, se contabilizaron 546,159 beneficiarios en los 32
municipios en los 4 afios, correspondiendo de la siguiente manera: 10.94% para el afio 1997, 27.89%
para el afio 1998, 33.64% para el afio 1999, 21.62% para el afio 2000, y 5.88% para el afio 2001.
-36 -



Planificaci6n Municipal.
En cuanto al tema de Planificaci6n Municipal, el Proyecto Protierra, contrat6 a las firmnas consultoras
"Consorcio BIT, FIDER- y AMAGUARTI, para que acompafiaran a las municipalidades de los
Departamentos de Chinandega, Le6n y Sureste (Zelaya Central y Rio San Juan) respectivamente, en la
elaboraci6n de sus Planes de Desarrollo Municipal y sus Planes de Inversi6n Municipal. Dichas
consultorias de acompafiamiento se Ilevaron a cabo por un espacio de aproximadamente 8 meses
continuos, teniendo como resultado los Planes de Desarrollo Municipal (PDM) de los 32 municipios y
los Planes de Inversi6n Municipal (PIM) correspondientes a los mismos 32 municipios para el anio 1999.
En defmitiva el resultado principal de esta consultoria no fue el obtener estos productos solamente, sino
llevar a cabo todo el proceso de capacitaci6n en elaboraci6n de Planes de Desarrollo Municipal y Planes
de Inversi6n Municipal tanto a autondades municipales como a sus tecnicos. Esto correspondi6 a la
16gica del fortalecimiento municipal y estuvo acorde al componente de Desarrollo Municipal que se
estableci6 en el disefio del proyecto.
En vista de que este proceso no podia quedar estancado, se diseiiaron terminos de referencia para llevar
a cabo una continuaci6n del mismo a traves de capacitaci6n a las munucipalidades en los Planes de
Gesti6n Municipal.
En el anio 1999, se 11ev6 a cabo el proceso de elaboraci6n de los Planes de Gesti6n Municipal y una
capacitaci6n en la elaboraci6n e implementaci6n de los mismos. Dicha consultoria fue llevada a cabo
por la Universidad Thomas More. Como resultado de esta consultoria se obtuvo: a) Capacitaci6n a los
32 municipios beneficiarios del proyecto en la elaboraci6n y ejecuci6n de los Planes de Gesti6n
Municipal (PGM), y b) Los Planes de Gesti6n Municipal (PGM) elaborados en los 32 muncipios.
En este proceso no solo se obtuvieron los 32 documentos PGM, sino que se lograron conformar las
estructuras participativas en todos los municipios beneficiarios, que se les llam6 de diversas maneras,
entre ellas Comisiones de Trabajo, que hoy en dia han pasado a ser las mesas de concertaci6n municipal,
como parte del Sistema de Planificaci6n Municipal (SPM).
En el afno 2000, se inici6 un proceso de Sistematizaci6n de las experiencias de Planificaci6n Municipal
que se habian Ilevado a cabo a traves del proyecto. Se constituy6 un grupo de consultores, entre los que
particip6 la Universidad Thomas More, conducidos por el Arquitecto Jorge Otero Reyes, Consultor
Intemacional del proyecto, y luego de aproximadamente 6 meses de trabajo, se logr6 tener sistematizado
todo el proceso de planificaci6n municipal que incluy6 la elaboraci6n de los Planes de Desarrollo
Municipal, Planes de Inversi6n Municipal y Planes de Gesti6n Municipal, escrito en 7 tomos.
Sistemas Informalticos Municipales.
Cuando inici6 el proyecto Protierra, no se pens6 en desarrollar Sistemas Informaticos para los
Municipios. Esta necesidad vino surgiendo en la medida que se comenz6 a generar mas y mas
informaci6n tanto a nivel municipal como en las Coordinaciones Territoriales y a nivel central. Se cre6
una secci6n dentro del proyecto, especializada en Informatica Municipal, la que se encarg6 con el
concurso de consultorias extemas y el personal de planta de desarrollar los diversos sistemas
informaticos. Se inici6 con el Sistema de monitoreo y seguimiento de proyectos, que se convirti6 en el
SIAP, y luego se vinieron sumando una serie de sistemas como los de Contabilidad y finanzas (SIAF), el
Sistema de Adquisiciones, el Sistema de Informaci6n Municipal (SIM), que sumado a los que ya
existian en las diversas Alcaldias, resultaron en un interesante abanico de sistemas que apoyaron el
- 37 -



fortalecimniento municipal. Cada uno de estos sistemas informniticos tuvo la intenci6n de apoyar un
proceso de gesti6n municipal, asi pues el SLAP (Sistema de Admimstraci6n de Proyectos), vino a
mejorar sustancialmente el monitoreo y seguimiento de los Planes de Inversi6n de los municipios y de los
proyectos de inversi6n, el Sistema de Informaci6n Municipal (SIM) apoy6 el proceso de planificaci6n
municipal y el Sistema de Administraci6n Financiera (SIAF) coadyuv6 al mejoramiento de las finanzas
municipales.
Otras consultorias.
Durante los casi cuatro afios de ejecuci6n del proyecto, se llevaron a cabo una serie de consultorias,
algunas de corta duraci6n, otras de mediana y larga duraci6n. Para efecto de tener una idea general de
las mimas mencionaremos las mas importantes.
Aiio 1997: 1) Disefio del Sistema de Control Intemo y Contabilidad. Consultor: Mauricio Ariuz. 2)
Diseiio y Montaje del Programa Informatico para el Sistema de Monitoreo y Seguimiento. Consultor:
Juan Carlos Espinoza. 3) Revisi6n de Proyectos de Desarrollo Rural. Consultora: Ema Budinich. 4)
Disenlo de modelos de manejo financiero de sub-proyectos productivos. Consultor: Dagoberto Rivera. 5)
Evaluaci6n de Sub-proyectos de Occidente. Consultor: Francisco Berrios. 6) Organizaci6n Comunitana,
Planificaci6n local participativa de proyectos. Consultor: Francisco Berrios. 7) Auditoria Financiera.
Consultor: Price Waterhouse. 8) Consultoria Anteproyecto de la Ley Organica del INIFOM. Consultor:
Yali Molina. 9) Analisis e Interpretaci6n de la Ley de Reformas a la Ley No. 40. Consultor: Raul
Palacio Roman. 10) Interpretaci6n de la Ley Tributaria. Consultor: Oriel Soto Cuadra. 11) Evaluaci6n
de Consultoria Disefio del Sistema de Monitoreo y Seguimiento de Proyectos. Consultor: Dernus
Chavarria G. 12) Evaluaci6n de Sub-proyectos. Consultor: Emilio Martinez Sotelo. 13) Capacitaci6n
del Programa Informatico para el seguimiento de Monitoreo y Seguimiento. Consultor: Juan Carlos
Espinoza.
Ano 1998: 1) Consultoria Genero. Consultora: Zulma Bustos Gonzalez. 2) Evaluaci6n Social de
Protierra. Consultora: Mary Lizbeth Gonzalez. 3) Taller de Analisis de la situaci6n organizacional de
Protierra. Consultor: Dagoberto Rivera. 4) Evaluaci6n Social de Protierra-Consultor Nacional.
Consultora: Ana Julia Moreno. 5) Auditoria Financiera. Consultor: Price Waterhouse. 6)
Descentralizaci6n, finanzas municipales y reformas fiscales. Consultor: Hemando Garz6n. 7) Revisi6n y
actualizaci6n del Reglamento Operativo de Protierra. Consultor: Dagoberto Rivera. 8) Valoraci6n de la
descentralizaci6n en Nicaragua. Consultor: Dagoberto Rivera. 9) Elaboraci6n de propuesta de Politica
Nacional de Descentralizaci6n y Estrategia de divulgaci6n. Consultor: Pedro Abarca Loasiga. 10)
Elaboraci6n de propuesta de Politica Nacional de Descentralizaci6n y Estrategia de divulgaci6n.
Consultor Ana Soledad Roman. I 1) Elaboraci6n de propuesta de Politica Nacional de
Descentralizaci6n y Estrategia de divulgaci6n. Consultor: Carlos Duarte Areas. 13) Reestructuraci6n
del Sistema de Administraci6n Financiera. Consultor: German Escobar. 14) Diseno e Implementaci6n
del Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial. Consultora: Maria de los Angeles Ponce. 15) Desarrollo del
Sistema Financiero. Consultor: Roberto Bland6n. 16) Reestructuraci6n del Sistema de Planeaci6n y
Presupuestaci6n. Consultor: Armando Murillo Guzmtan. 17) Desarrollo del software de subproyectos y
monitoreo. Consultor: Ives Chaix. 18) Estrategia de divulgaci6n. Emergencia Mitch. Consultor: CLS.
19) Capacitaci6n a municipalidades en tematica forestal. Consultor: CIFOR. 20) Disefio y aplicaci6n
del Software financiero-contable. Consultor: Cornelio Hopman.
Anio 1999: 1) Capacitaci6n PDM-PIM en los municipios del Departamento de Le6n. Consultor: FIDER.
2) Capacitaci6n PDM-PIM en los municipios del Departamento de Chinandega. Consultor: Consorcio
BIT. 3) Capacitaci6n PDM-PIM en los municipios del Departamentos de Zelaya Central y Rio San
- 38 -



Juan. Consultor: AMAGUARTI. 4) Coordinaci6n de la Secretaria Tecnica de la CSD. Consultor:
Carlos Duarte Areas. 5) Elaboraci6n de la Tipologia Municipal nicaragiiense. Consultor: Pedro Abarca
Loasiga. 6) Realizaci6n de estudios sobre expenencias en descentralizaci6n del pais. Consultora: Ana
Soledad Roman. 7) Difusi6n de las acciones realizadas por la CSD. Consultora: Estrella del Alba Treto.
8) Elaboraci6n de prototipos de sub-proyectos de Infraestructura. Consultora: Marta Lizbeth Agurcia.
9) Elaboraci6n de prototipos de sub-proyectos productivos. Consultor: Joel Zamora. 10) Estudio
expeditivo obras hidraulicas en municipios afectados por el Mitch. Consultores: Jesus del Vallin,
Willian Martinez, y Carlos Lainez 11) Auditoria UTI. Consultor: Price Waterhouse. 12) Auditoria 16
Alcaldias. Consultor: KPMG. 13) Capacitaci6n en formulaci6n de Planes de Gesti6n Municipal.
Consultor: Universidad Thomas More. 14) Reforma del INIFOM. Consultores: Marcos L6pez, Elinor
Alvarado, Carol Castillo. 15) Evaluaci6n de Impacto Social. Consultora: Mary Lizbeth Gonzalez. 16)
Propuesta de Reforma del INIFOM. Consultor: Universidad Thomas More. 17) Auditoria 48
municipios. Consultor: KPMG. 18) Capacitaci6n de lideres comunales. Consultor: Vox Populy. 19)
Encuesta Evaluaci6n de Impacto. Consultor: CEEN. 20) Ordenanzas Mumcipales. Consultor:
Consorcio BIT. 21) Evaluaci6n de Impacto Social. Consultores: Mary Lizbeth Gonzales, Marvin Jose
T6rres. 22) Evaluaci6n Administrativa Financiera de Municipalidades. Consultor: Roger Cerda y
Asociados. 23) Elaboraci6n Programa de Fortalecimiento Delegaci6n IX INIFOM. Consultor: Juan
Ram6n Rosales.
Afno 2000: 1) Sistematizaci6n del proceso de Planificaci6n Municipal. Consultor: Universidad Thomas
More. 2) Auditoria UTI y Alcaldias. Consultor: KPMG. 3) Preparaci6n Segunda Fase Proyecto
Protierra. Consultores: George Wite, Casto Luis Olivares, Guadalupe Walllace, Mauricio Leonelli,
Silvio Cerda, Leonardo Garcia, Salvador Aguilar. 4) Evaluaci6n financiera proyecto productivos.
Consultor: INPYME. 5) Consultorias Secretaria Tecnica de la CSD. Consultores: Pedro Abarca
Loasiga, Ana Soledad Roman, Estrella del Alba Treto, Carlos Duarte Areas. 6) Apoyo al proceso de
implementaci6n de los Planes de Gesti6n Municipal. Consultores: Orlando Duarte, Dalila Martinez. 7)
Electnficaci6n Rural. Consultor: NRECA. 8) Evaluaci6n de Proyectos productivos y propuesta de
nuevo modelo. Consultor: Jaap Van Der Zee. 9) Practicas 6ptimas. Consultor: Salvador Aviles. 10)
Consultoria de Genero. Consultora: Alicia Medina. 11) Elaboraci6n del Plan de Divulgaci6n del
INIFOM. Consultor: Leonel Gallardo. 12) Continuaci6n Consultoria Genero. Consultora: Elena
Edwards.
Anio 2001:1) Consultores de la Secretaria Tecnica de la CSD. Consultores: Carlos Duarte Areas, Pedro
Abarca Loasiga, Ana Soledad Roman, Estrella del Alba Treto. 2) Levantamiento de Linea de Base
SPDMR. Consultor: ESA Consultores. 4) Consultoria Planificaci6n Financiera. Consultor: Jose lgnacio
Flores. 5) Apoyo al Director General y Director de Operaciones. Consultor: Dagoberto Rivera. 6)
Evaluaci6n de puestos, funciones y remuneraciones. Consultor: Donkin y Arguello. 7) Consultoria
Divulgaci6n. Consultor: Fundaci6n Andemos. 8) Consultoria en Planificaci6n Operativa. Consultor:
Eliseo Arauz.
A como puede apreciarse en el detalle anterior de todas las consultorias efectuadas durante los anios
1998, 19999,2000 y 2001, muchas correspondieron al componente de Desarollo Municipal, sin-embargo
otras vinieron a reforzar el fortalecimiento institucional del INIFOM y de la Secretaria Tecnica de la
Comisi6n Sectorial de Descentralizaci6n.
5.  ASESORAMIENTO DE RESULTADOS (Impacto final del proyecto)
A como hemos podido observar en el punto anterior donde se han enumerado las consultorias llevadas a
-39 -



cabo por el proyecto y se han descnto los sub-proyectos de inversi6n, durante los casi cuatro anios de
vida del mismo puede decirse con toda certeza que este proyecto ha tenido un impacto final muy
satisfactono. Ya la evaluaci6n de medio termino, tanto en los aspectos de la evaluaci6n social como de
los sub-proyectos, nos arrojaba una buena ejecuci6n, y de estos estamos hablando en el anlo 1999. En
terrninos generales se considera que el impacto final del proyecto se observa en los tres componentes
inicialmente planteados: Inversiones en las municipalidades a traves de los sub-proyectos, Desarrollo
Municipal y Desarrollo Institucional. A continuaci6n veremos esto en detalle.
Inversiones.
En cuanto a inversiones se refiere, ya mencionamos antenormente que se ejecutaron en el area del
proyecto, mas de 800 sub-proyectos, arrojindonos un promedio de mas de 25 sub-proyectos por
municipios. El impacto que esto tuvo no solo fue en el sector de infraestructura, con la construcci6n de
pequefias obras como puentes peatonales, vados, reparaci6n de caminos rurales, letrinas, reparaci6n de
escuelas y puestos de salud (en los casos en que el FISE no tenia recursos destinados a esos municipios),
casas comunales, etc, sino tambien en el sector productivo. Es importante mencionar que se Ilevaron a
cabo mltiples proyectos pequefios de vacas paridas, cerdos, aves, producci6n de patio, viveros, siembra
de primera, postrera, humedad y Apante en la zona de Rio San Juan, para mencionar algunos. Estos
proyectos no solo impactaron positivamente en las economias familiares, sino que dieron un valor
agregado, "el Capital Social". Es importante mencionar que actualmente hay una disponibilidad de mas
de US$ I mill6n en los 32 municipios que fueron beneficiados por la primera fase del proyecto, lo cuAl
constituye la semilla para el Desarrollo local de esos municipios.
Desarrollo lInstitucional Municipal
Podemos decir que en cuanto a Desarrollo Municipal, en los 32 municipios que fueron beneficiados por
el proyecto, se logr6 un salto cualitativo en esta materia, logrando entre otras cosas conformar los
Equipos Tecnicos Municipales (ETM) los cuAles quedaron bien capacitados no solo en elaboraci6n de
Planes de Desarrollo Municipal y Planes de Inversi6n Municipal, Leyes Municipales, organizaci6n y
gestion municipal, finanzas municipales, sino tambien en Sistemas InformAticos Municipales, con lo
cual se dot6 a dichos equipos de las herramientas tecnicas necesarias para su adecuada gesti6n.
Desarrollo l[nstitucional del INIEFOM
Es importante mencionar que el Proyecto Protierra apoy6 decididamente el fortalecimiento del INIFOM,
de tal fornna que se logr6 preparar la Segunda fase de dicho proyecto, ya de manera institucionalizada.
Si bien es cierto al inicio del proyecto, quizAs durante los afios 1997, 1998 y 1999, Protierra funcion6
como una Unidad Ejecutora bastante independiente del INIFOM tanto a nivel central como al nivel
desconcentrado (UTI y CT respectivamente), a partir del afno 2000, se inici6 un proceso de integraci6n
gradual de las Unidades (UTI y CT) en la instituci6n. Es importante mencionar que el Proyecto
Protierra desde el afio 1998, apoy6 a la Comisi6n Sectorial de Descentralizaci6n casi en su totalidad con
el financiamiento de todo el equipo de tecnicos que constituy6 la Secretaria Tecnica de dicha comisi6n.
Durante los casi cuatro anios de ejecuci6n del proyecto, se financi6 a la instituci6n con gastos operativos,
incluyendo pago de personal permanente, no solo a nivel central, sino tambien en las delegaciones que
correspondian al area del proyecto. Asi mismo se financiaron una serie de consultorias entre ellas la que
correspondi6 a la ultima propuesta de reforma institucional, que dio origen al ultimo organigrama
aprobado por el Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico en el anlo 2001.
-40 -



El fortalecimiento Institucional lleg6 a su punto maximo cuando tanto la UTI, como las CT, se
integraron al INIFOM en las diferentes estructuras institucionales. Esto ocurri6 en el mes de Mayo del
ahio 2001. Los ejemplos mas claros de esta integraci6n fueron los siguientes: El Coordinador del
Proyecto pas6 a ser el Director General del INIFOM, el Vice-Coordinador pas6 a ocupar la Direcci6n
de Operaciones, los Coordinadores Territoriales se constituyeron en los Delegados Tecnicos
institucionales de sus respectivas delegaciones. Personal que trabaj6 como tecnicos en el proyecto
quedaron con responsabilidades en la jefatura de departamentos de las direcciones del nuevo INIFOM.
La que funcionaba como la Coordinaci6n Administrativa-Financiera de Protierra, se transform6 en la
Unidad de Manejo de Recursos Extemos de la instituci6n. Con todo esto se garantiz6 que el Banco
Mundial diera su visto bueno para que el INIFOM manejara el SPDMR de manera institucionalizada.
6. DESAFIOS, FORTALEZAS, VENTAJAS, DESVENTAJAS, DIFICULTADES
El principal desafio para el INIFOM, serA ejecutar el SPDMR con el mismo o mayor exito con el que se
desempefi6 el proyecto Protierra, y mantener y/o mejorar toda la capacidad instalada que el proyecto
esta dejando a nivel municipal en materia de inversiones por medio de los sub-proyectos tanto de
infraestructura como productivos.
Con la integraci6n de la UTI y las CT en el INIFOM, esta instituci6n cuenta con la gran ventaja de tener
los recursos humanos que ya tienen experiencia en el manejo del primer proyecto del Banco Mundial, y
tambien de contar con los instrumentos necesarios (manuales de procedimientos, sistemas informaticos,
etc) para el manejo adecuado del nuevo proyecto.
La desventaja actual es que si no se maneja bien el proceso de reforma (la continuaci6n), se puede
perder la experiencia acumulada en el primer proyecto.
Las dificultades que se pueden presentar en la instituci6n son el perder al personal que llev6 a cabo el
proyecto Protierra y que tiene la experiencia acumulada por casi cuatro anios, asi como el perder los
instrumentos y herramientas generadas en el proyecto Protierra.
7. MAYORES FACTORES QUE AFECTARON EL PROYECTO
Entre los mayores factores que afectaron el proyecto podemos mencionar los siguientes:
a) No se cont6 desde el inicio con el personal calificado para conformar la Unidad Ejecutora a nivel
central y desconcentrada. Este se vino contratando paulatinamente y/o formando durante la operaci6n.
b) No se cont6 desde el inicio del proyecto, con los Sistemas Informaticos adecuados para apoyar el
trabajo tecnico y administrativo-financiero.
c) No se cont6 con un Sistema Contable financiero desde el inicio del proyecto, lo cuAl gener6
retrasos fundamentales en los reportes.
d) El Huracan Mitch constituy6 un factor que impact6 positivamente por un lado en el proyecto y por
otro lado de manera negativa. Lo positivo fue que se agihz6 la ejecuci6n de sub-proyectos en las zonas
beneficiarias del proyecto, pero por otro lado fue negativo porque rompi6 un tanto el esquema ornginal
del proyecto, destinandose recursos a otras zonas del pais, causando inconformldades en los municipios
beneficiarios y agotando mas rapidamente los recursos financieros.
e) Algunos cambios en funcionarios del Banco Mundial y dentro del proyecto, generaron algunos
retrasos en algunos casos sigmficativos pero en otros sin mucha relevancia.
8. RESUMEN DE HALLAZGOS
-41 -



Es importante mencionar que pese a algunos problemas que se presentaron durante el proyecto como
veiamos en el punto anterior, el balance que se puede hacer de Protierra es bastante positivo, de tal
forma que se logr6 disefiar una segunda fase basandose en los exitos y en los desaciertos de la primera
fase. Muchos de los procesos como el de Planificaci6n Municipal, sirvieron para disefiar Sistemas
actualmente vigentes, como el Sistema de Planificacion Municipal (SPM). Sistemas Informaticos como
el SIAF, el SIM y el SIAP, estan sirviendo a la instituci6n para evolucionar a sistemas mas complejos y
completos, complementandolos con otros sistemas utilizados por otros proyectos municipalistas.
En materia de procedimientos y procesos administrativos-fmancieros, estos seran diagnosticados en el I
trimestre del 2003, en base a un convenio de asistencia tecnica recientemente suscrito con el MHCP y
contaran con el asesoramiento del proyecto de la reforma a la administraci6n financiera conocida por las
siglas SIGFA, los cuales seran ajustados a las necesidades de INIFOM y a los requerimientos del
SIGFA antes de iniciar su proceso de institucionalizaci6n.
9.  SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
En cuanto a la sostenibilidad del proyecto en la esfera institucional, se considera viable, si la direcci6n
de INIFOM esta dispuesta a conservar, a un pequenlo grupo de consultores clave provenientes del
proyecto Protierra, una vez finalizado el SPDMR, y pueda ser financiado con recursos del Gobiemo
Central para el funcionamiento normal de INIFOM. Este personal seria sometido a una evaluaci6n al
desempefio y se le mantendrian similares condiciones de remuneraci6n, asi como institucionalizar los
procedimientos utilizados con exito en la primera fase.
En cuanto a la sostenibilidad del proyecto en los municipios, debemos hablar de la necesidad de que la
instituci6n sensibilice tanto a las autoridades municipales, a los Equipos Tecnicos Municipales, y a la
poblaci6n acerca de la necesidad de conservar a los proyectos de infraestructura municipal y comunal a
traves del mantenimiento preventivo. En cuanto a los proyectos productivos implementados por
Protierra y acerca del fondo existente de US$ I mull6n aproximadamente, es imnportante que el INIFOM,
lleve a cabo subsecuentes estudios para disefiar un nuevo modelo que permita la utilizaci6n efectiva de
esos recursos para el Desarrollo Econ6mico Local. Es importante que se garantice por parte de las
municipalidades la sostenibilidad de los proyectos productivos, creando los mecanismos adecuados para
ello.
10. EVALUACI[6N AL BANCO MUNDIAL
En definitiva si el proyecto Protierra, presenta un balance bastante positivo en sus resultados, es
imposible evaluar positivamente a la Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto, y a la instituci6n responsable del
mismo y no hacerlo de la misma forna al Banco Mundial.
Es fundamental mencionar que sin el apoyo concreto y decidido del Banco Mundial hubiese sido muy
dificil alcanzar el exito del proyecto Protierra, sin embargo es importante reflexionar sobre la necesidad
de crear mecanismos mas agiles en las No Objeciones a las solicitudes y en los tramites de desembolso y
reembolso. En el caso del proyecto Protierra, hubo quizas unas tres o cuatro ocasiones en que se
atrasaron contrataciones o pagos por no disponer de la No Objecion correspondiente, o por no disponer
de los recursos financieros necesarios. Se considera que esto puede ser facilmente corregido disefiando
mecanismos mas agiles dentro del Banco o dando mas libertad de decisi6n a las Unidades Ejecutoras o
en su defecto a las instituciones que manejan los proyectos.
-42 -



11. AUTOEVALUACION
Nuevamente, pese al logro obtenido, es unportante evaluar la ejecuci6n del proyecto por parte de la
Unidad Ejecutora y de la instituci6n misma. En terminos.generales se considera que se pudo haber sido
mas agil y efectivo con muchos de los tramites burocraticos tales como desembolsos para sub-proyectos,
pagos a los consultores, pago a proveedores, etc. Quizas hubiese sido convenlente reforzar el equipo
tecnico a nivel central para dar mejor seguimiento en las Coordinaciones Territoriales o haber iniciado
desde el anto 1998, la institucionalizaci6n paulatina del proyecto, dando mas responsabilidades en la
ejecuci6n del mismo a las Delegaciones Territoriales y a las Gerencias del nivel central del INIFOM.
Posiblemente algunos retrasos en las No Objeciones y en los reembolsos que se mencionaba en el punto
anterior, sea compartido entre la UTI y el Banco Mundial, sin embargo en terminos generales, se
considera que las Unidades tanto del nivel central como desconcentradas, vinieron mejorando en sus
procesos, en su metodologia y por lo tanto mejorando tambien gradualmente en sus resultados. Para
mencionar un ejemplo de esta situaci6n, a inicios del afio 1998, posiblemente en marzo, se habian
ejecutado apenas 23 sub-proyectos, sin embargo 3 afios y medio despues esta cifra alcanz6 los 808
sub-proyectos, lo cual demuestra el avance que se tuvo en afinar mecanismos y en producir resultados
con eficiencia.
12. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
QuizAs se puedan mencionar un sm numero de lecciones aprendidas en este proyecto, sin embargo se
mencionaran las mas importantes y se hara por componentes.
Inversiones.
No ser paternalista ni con las Alcaldias ni con los beneficiarios de los proyectos de inversi6n. Es
necesario brindarles capacitaci6n pero no hacerles el trabajo directamente, y en este tema es importante
referirse en la identificaci6n de los sub-proyectos a traves del proceso de planificaci6n municipal y el de
ejecuci6n de los mismos. Quizas al inicio se comentan muchos errores, pero con ello se aprende, por lo
tanto es importante no menospreciar las capacidades locales.
DesarroHo Institucional Municipal.
En cuanto al fortalecimiento municipal, se puede mencionar que una de las principales lecciones
aprendidas es que si dotamos a las Alcaldias de los insumos, materiales y herrarnientas necesarias, y los
capacitamos en como llevar a cabo procesos, ellos los van a garantizar. Esto ha sido una lecci6n para el
proyecto Protierra, murucipalidades extremadamente incapaces al inicio, se transformaron en
municipalidades fuertes, consolidadas y respondieron con resultados concretos.
Desarrollo Institucional del INIFOM.
En lo relativo al fortalecirniento institucional, se puede decir que la principal lecci6n aprendida es que
para fortalecer una instituci6n mediante la institucionalizaci6n de proyectos de cooperaci6n extema, es
necesario definir primero el rol estrategico y operativo basado en la ley org6nica del INIFOM y otras
leyes que le asignan competencias como Convenios de Credito (BM 3480-NI), Contratos de Prestamos
(BID 1056- SF/NI) Ley de Regimen Presupuestario Mumcipal y la Normativa de las Transferencias
Municipales. Una vez definido este rol, definir y estandarizar procesos, instrumentos, recursos humanos
etc, que tome en cuenta los requerimientos de cada proyecto y luego proceder a su institucionalizaci6n e
intemalizaci6n para finalrnente redimensionar el tamafio de la organizaci6n a nivel central y a nivel
-43 -



territorial.
Sin embargo la institucionalizaci6n de proyectos, no se hace simplemente integrando fisicamente a los
recursos humanos y decretando dicha institucionalizaci6n, esta debe ser gradual y obedecer a un plan
previamente elaborado con politicas y objetivos claros, que orienten una estrategia de implementaci6n
respaldada con un presupuesto con recursos suficientes para cubrir los costos de su ejecuci6n y que
tenga como metas estandarizar procesos e instrumentos, nivelar salarios y motivaci6n del personal,
incluyendo el pago de prestaciones sociales e indemnizaciones del personal a cesantear. En vista de lo
anterior, la instituci6n debe comprometerse con ella misma a respetar ese plan con el fin de hacer
eficiente y eficaz dicho proceso.
Implementation Completion Report: Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (1ARENA)
PROJECT DATA
A.1    BASIC INFORMATION
Date of report:              December 2001
Name:                        Rural Municipalities Project
Country/Department:          Nicaragua / Le6n, Chinandega and Rio San Juan (INIFOM)
National (MARENA)
Sector/Sub-sector:           Municipalities
Environment
Credit Number:               2918-NI
Region:                      Central America
Key Dates
Initial evaluation (Appraisal)  August 14, 1996
Effective Approval           October 1, 1996
First disbursement           May 2, 1997
Planned closure              March 31, 2002
Borrower                     Government of Nicaragua
hnplementing agency of       Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development (INFOM)
Component I
Imnplementing agency of      Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA)
Components II and III
A,2    BRIEEF DESCRIlPTION OF THE PROJECT
I.     The Rural Municipalities Project (PROTIERRA) was an initiative of the Government of
Nicaragua supported by the World Bank. Its aim was to help alleviate poverty and protect the
environment. Its area of action was located in Le6n, Chinandega, Rio San Juan and the Atlantic Region
and it was made up of three components: Development of Municipalities, Natural Resource Policies and
Institutions and the Biodiversity Corridor in the Atlantic (developed as an independent project).
-44 -



A.2.1 Component I: RURAL MUNICIPALITIES DeVELOPMENT
2.     The objective of this component was to strengthen the municipal governments, NGOs and local
communities and to support sustainable economic growth in the rural areas to reduce rural poverty,
conserving and restoring the natural resources and the environment. The focal point of this component's
strategy was the development of the municipalities, which consisted of implementing investments in
economic infrastructure, improvements in natural resource management and small community productive
projects through the municipal governments and communal organizations. The main activities of this
component were dissemination of information, citizen participation and training, implementation of
sub-projects and fostering of the institutional development of INIFOM, which is responsible for the
implementation of this component.
A.2.2 Component II: natural resource policies and institutions
3.     This component was designed to improve the central government administration and ensure that the
public and private stakeholders consider the environmental variable in decision-making. This component
thus supported the institutional development of MARENA in drawing up environmental policies; planning
and monitoring the state of the environment and of land use; and management of protected areas. The
project included an inter-institutional technical assistance program whose purpose was to improve
MARENA's capacity to assist other government entities in charge of implementing and complying with the
environmental policies and attain harmonious application of the environmental management policies and
instruments in the institutions.
4.     In the wake of the disaster caused by Hurricane Mitch, an Emergency Assistance Program
designed to rectify the damage caused by Hurricane Mitch in the Atlantic Region was added to this
component. The program consisted of restoring, reactivating, improving and transforming the
socioeconomic infrastructure destroyed and/or damaged by the hurricane. With this objective, the
Government of Nicaragua, in common accord with the World Bank, reassigned approximately US$ 1.0
million of the funds earmarked to Component I, implemented by INIFOM, to MARENA so this program
could be implemented through the Coordinating Unit of the PROTIERRA/ABC-MARENA Project.
A.2.3 Component III: atlantic bioLOGICAL corridor
5.     The objective of this component was to ensure environmentally sustamable land use within a
biodiversity corridor. To this end, the drafting of a proposal for a specific project called Atlantic
Biological Corridor of Nicaragua was programmed through the PROTIERRA project with help from the
World Bank for submission to the Global Environment Facility (GEF) for financing. In addition, there
were plans to support fulfillment of the conditions in effect to get the funds disbursed for this new project.
B.     PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Outcome                              Satisfactory
Sustainability                       Satisfactory
Institutional Development Impact      Satisfactory
Bank Performance                      Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory
Quality at Entry                      Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time              no
-45 -



C.     ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN AND OF QUALITY
AT ENTRY
6.     The project's development objective largely corresponded to the country's needs and to the
World Bank's strategy. By contributing to the development of institutional policies, instruments and
institutional structures for better natural resource management, PROTIERRA helped the government, local
institutions and communities consider regionally, nationally and globally important environmental aspects
in their decisions. As a consequence, the project contributed to the institutional development of the
norm-setting and regulatory entity with respect to the environment, as well as that of others with an impact
on environmental management, thus promoting the improvement of national institutionality, an extremely
important aspect for Nicaragua's sustainable development.
7.     The project design was not substantively revised with respect to its proposed objectives and
results. There were, however, certain adjustments to Component II, to be implemented by the Ministry of
the Environment and Natural Resources, that grew out of the very nature of the project, characterized by
influencing MARENA's institutional development process and inter-institutional relations. For this reason,
it had to be adapted to the changes derived from this process. In addition, as indicated above, a new
program was added to Component II in the course of implementation to address the emergency caused by
Hurricane Mitch n the Atlantic Coast. Notably absent from the project design were coordination
mechanisms between MARENA and INIFOM when CONAGRO did not function, causing some delays.
Given that the Technical Assistance category concluded one year before it was planned, it can be deduced
that the implementation capacity was highly satisfactory and that to a certain degree the project design
underestimated MARENA's implementation capacity.
8.     The quality of the project implementation at the entry experienced some problems deriving from
the above-mentioned lack of coordination mechanisms between MARENA and INIFOM. That required a
stage of adjustment and connecting that caused some delays. The quality of implementation was also
affected by the fact that the project document (SAR) was originally written in English and translated into
Spanish by INIFOM a year and a half later. This hindered appropriation of the project by municipal
government officials and those of a lower rank. The change of municipal authorities also had an effect,
since the workshops had to be repeated in all municipalities to explain again what the project consisted of.
The work in the territory was limited at the beginning and expanded in the second year of the project. In
view of the diverse characteristics of the authors involved, different forms of relations had to be
implemented. Some institutions that should have participated in the inter-institutional strengthening
program were not very receptive and the project had to dedicate considerable efforts to raising awareness
and providing information regarding the importance of and need for incorporating the environmental focus
in their institutional management.
D.     ASSESSMENT OF THE PERFORMANCE OF COMPONENTS l AND III AND THEIR
RESULTS
D.1    THE PERFORMANCE OF COMPONENT U AND ITS RESULTS
D. 1.1. RESULTS AND PRODUCTS OF THE PROGRAM TO STRENGTHEN MARENA
9. The most relevant result of this project was its contribufton to the institutional strengthening of the
Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources and the Ofilce of the Attorney for the
Environment and Natural Resources. This was achieved by technically, materially and financially
facilitating the generation of a proposal for institutional processes and arrangements that make fulfillment
of MARENA's mandate viable and that served as a reference in regulating the part of Law No. 290
corresponding to the ministry's organization and functions. In this framework, technical assistance was
-46 -



provided help prepare instruments for the technical-administrative management of the ministry and make
them official. The creation and development of a legal advisory service for MARENA was supported and
the construction of the ministry's training center, rehabilitation of installations and provision of basic office
and transport equipment were financed. All of this has been vital for the functioning of the ministry.
Similarly, PROTIERRA encouraged and expedited the draffing of agreements and accords between
MARENA and other entities, particularly in the sphere of protected areas. It also supported the
formulation and negotiation of Component II of the Second Rural Municipalities Project, geared to
decentralizing environmental management, whose implementation will also be the responsibility of the
environrmental mmistry.  The support to the ministry's Planning Division was shared with other
institutional strengthening projects of MARENA and the specialized technical support prioritized other
areas such as top management, the General Division of Protected Areas, the General Division of
Biodiversity and Natural Resources (DGBRN) The DGBRN was created by Law 290. and the General
Division of Environmental Quality.
10. In addition, the project collaborated in the formulation of studies that supported the analysis of
Nicaragua's ecological problematic in key environmental management spheres and made it possible to
define policies and judicial instruments and plan actions to detam and counteract the deterioration of
natural resources and the environment. These spheres include biodiversity, protected areas, forestry sector,
terrtorial planning, climatic changes and vulnerability, the struggle against desertification, environmental
impact, emissions control, education and training in environmental themes, international relations and a
national environment fund, among others. The project also encouraged legal and regulatory initiatives to
support the decentralization and deconcentration of environmental management, natural resource
management and titling of indigenous lands. In this context, the project expedited the preparation and
discussion of some legislation and supported the outreach and appropriation processes geared to the actors
responsible for its fulfillment and application (see Annex No. 1.1).
11. With respect to MARENA's strategy for Deconcentrated Functioning, the project promoted the
technical training and institutional strengthemng of MARENA's Regional Delegations in Le6n,
Chinandega, Rio San Juan and the Atlantic Region, which in turn facilitated implementation of the
PROTIERRA project components. In this regard, the MARENA delegations were provided office
equipment, transport and rehabilitation of their physical installations. One important result was the
ongoing traming and legal technical assistance processes for the MARENA delegates and technicians in the
field, especially regarding the admirnistrative procedures related to Law 217 and its corresponding
regulations. In this process, provisional administrative instruments were prepared, such as formats to
apply for administrative sanctions, inspection reports, notifications and administrative writs, which were
later standardized and formalized.
12.    At the local level the project also contributed to the holding of participatory workshops with the
population on environmental issues and the Territorial Plan (POT) for the departments of Le6n and
Chinandega. Another important product of PROTIERRA was the National Ecosystem and Plant
Formation Map based on interpreting satellite images. It was the result of an integrated national and
Central American effort and provides the referential basis for formulating biodiversity conservation
activities, environmental planning and ecosystem and plant formation management. The project also
cooperated with the design and setting up of the Information Subsystem on Biodiversity and Protected
Areas and facilitated a study for the conceptual development and Redefinition of the National System of
Protected Areas.
13.   In addition, the project supported the process of conceptualizing the National Environment Fund
created by articles 48, 49 and 50 of Law 217.
-47 -



D. 1.2 RESULTS AND PRODUCTS OF THE INTER-INSTITUTIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
14.    PROTIERRA provided ongoing technical assistance to both the National Assembly presidency
and its Environment and Natural Resources Commission. This assistance consisted of the preparation and
review of legislative proposals related to the environment and natural resource management, as well as
other topics affecting environmental management.This support strengthened MARENA's advocacy work
and resulted in faster approval of envirorunental laws and the consideration of environmental aspects in
laws relating to other issues. In addition to four permanent advisers, two for the presidency of the National
Assembly and two for the Environment and Natural Resources Commission, the project provided basic
office equipment and financed training activities on enviromnental aspects, trips for legislators to other
countries to exchange experiences and some administrative expenses.
15.   In the inter-institutional support provided by PROTIERRA, the contribution to the establishment,
organization and performance of the Office of the Attorney for the Environment and Natural Resources
stands out. This support consisted of basic office equipment, financing of the initial professional team,
training of the departmental ombudsmen in aspects related to application of environmental laws,
participation of an official in a masters program on environmental legislation, technical assistance in
managing cases consulted by the Office of the Attorney for the Environment and collaboration in
organizing and holding the II Gathering of Environmental Prosecutors for Central America and Panama in
Managua. This contribution was fundamental to institutionalizing Office of tne Attorney for the
Environment and Natural Resources. As one product of it, the Office of Attorney General for Justice,
the body to which it belongs, understood its importance and assumed its mission as part of its substantive
activities. This environrnental body is now largely financed by the general budget of Nicaragua and has
attracted international cooperation for financing some of its activities.
16.    The project participated in holding training workshops on environmental legislation and
management for the Supreme Court justices and provided basic teaching equipment to the Judicial
School. The training of the justices was very well received, awakened interest and received a positive
evaluation. Nonetheless, the issue of enviromnental law is not identified in the assessments of training
needs in the judicial branch, probably because there is no strong demand for justice on this issue, even m
the most degraded and contaminated areas. This indicates that continuing work must be done in this
regard. In addition, with the demand for environmental management that the Second Rural Municipalities
Project will generate, there will probably be a greater number ofjudicial actions for environmental damages
and violations of the legal norms of environment and natural resource protection, which will demand the
involvement of the justices.
17. Beyond what had been initially planned in the project, the curricular content of Environment and
Development issues was also fonnulated for incorporation into the different educational programs of the
National Police Academy, in the Superior Center of Military Studies and in the National SchooR of
Sergeants. Technical reference material was prepared for developing the theme in each center and teachers
of these institutions were trained to offer the environmental themes. Sessions were also developed for
information, training and education on environmental management for police and army commanders and
scholarships were provided for the participation of army officers in graduate studies and masters programs
on environmental themes. All of this sought greater sustainability of the environmental management
activities of these military institutions.
18. In the case of the Army of Nicaragua, the training workshops for field commanders produced excellent
-48 -



results, partly because they were prepared according to local needs. In Chinandega, for example, issues
related to the protection and use of coastal zones were addressed, particularly the theme of fishing. In
contrast, particular emphasis was put on the issue of protected areas in Rio San Juan. In addition, the
participants were not only army officers but also police officers, mayors and other local authorities invited
to share the training and work toward greater coordination of activities on the ground. In general, the army
has been appropriating the environmental issue and demonstrates awareness of the nexus between
sovereignty and environment. It has a Department of Ecology and Environment within the Civil Affairs
Division. It also has training programs in agro-ecology for retired army personnel, publishes literature on
the issue for officers, holds expositions and photography competitions, participates in forest fire prevention
and control, protection of natural reserves and control of trafficking in protected species. It is also
promoting the creation of nurseries in military units, among other activities. With support from the project,
a Manual of Endangered Fauna, a soldier's pnmer and informative folders were prepared, a traveling
photographic exposition was organized, traming workshops were held on environmental management for
retired armny personnel and another training workshop was held on project formulation, among other things.
19.   The results had less impact in the National Police, probably due to the intensity of police work,
which by its very nature involves continually responding to emergencies, which limited participation in the
project. Another influence was that, in accord with the mter-institutional agreement, the relationship with
MARENA takes place through the Public Security Division, and since this is one of the most operational
divisions, the coordination was not sufficiently fluid. This limited the effectiveness of the contact with the
Police Academy, causing some delays in including the environmental theme in the curriculum and, more
fundamentally, in making use of other available resources. Despite all this, the results are considerable.
The police Academy now has a general module on the environmental theme that extracts the contents
accordmg to the level and specialization of the courses and based on the needs of the participants' areas of
origin. It should be stressed that the Academy also now has a specific module for the Chiefs of
Municipal Delegations that includes environmental law, and a pilot module is being tested for
upper-level technicians. In general, it can be stated that the Academy is continuing to improve the
mcorporation of the environmental theme into the police education curriculum, trying to infuse greater
ecological awareness in the National Police and strengthen the education role that the institution can
exercise with the citizenry regarding the environment.
20.   In addition, PROTIERRA supported the functional delimitations on environmental aspects between
MARENA and other central government bodies in accord with their respective mandates and helped define
the development of the concept and specific delimitations of the Sectoral Environmental Units in the
corresponding institutions. It also held discussion workshops about the scope and legal framework of the
government institutions on environmental aspects. In this context, the project promoted and supported the
drafting and signing of collaboration agreements between MARENA and other entities involved in
environmental management. In addition to these Bilateral Agreements, an Inter-Institutional Agreement
to support local environmental management that involves MARENA, the Association of Municipal
Governments of Nicaragua (AMUNIC), the Institute of Municipal Promotion (INIFOM), the Office of
Attorney General of Justice, the National Police, the Army of Nicaragua and the National Forestry Institute
(INAFOR) stands out. In the framework of this agreement, 12 seminars geared to local officials were held
in different departments of the country. In addition, support was given to the Municipal Governments with
training and technical assistance on the roles and responsibilities in managing natural resources and the
environment.
21.    The project also promoted the reorganization of the Indigenous Lands Demarcation
Commission and supported the preparation of the reform to the decree creating this body and the initiatives
-49 -



to get it approved. As part of the support for the participatory formulation of the indigenous lands
demarcation bill, sessions of the commission were organized and financed and national and intemational
technical assistance was contracted for drafting it, together with trips to study and share experiences with
other Latin American countries. Support continued to be provided later to the commission designated by
the executive branch to analyze the bill and the project participated in it until the President's office
submitted the bill to the National Assembly. In addition, the support provided to establishing the National
Sustainable Development Commission (CONADES) was extremely important for the implementation of
effective environmental policies.
D.1.3  Results AND    PRODUCTS     OF   THE   EMERGENCY       ASS1[STANCE    PROGRAM
REGARDING DAMAGE CAUSED BY HURRICANE MITCH IN THE ATLANTIC REGION
22.   In the wake of the disaster caused by Hurricane Mitch, MARENA coordinated the implementation
of emergency activities in the Atlantic Coast, signing agreements with INIFOM and the governments of the
North and South Atlantic Autonomous Regions. In both regions, social and productive infrastructure
projects were implemented at a cost of US$972,409, which benefited 90 indigenous and peasant
communities. In addition to the direct benefits to the affected communities, implementation of this
program strengthened the capacities of some regional economic sectors, stimulating the local economic
dynamic. Nearly all of the goods and services needed were acquired from local suppliers, generating a
demand that activated employment. The sectors experiencing the strongest impact were construction,
commerce, transport and employment for professionals (consultancies and designs). The best results were
observed in the construction sector and in the case of the South Atlantic Autonomous Region (RAAS) the
contractors satisfactorily fulfilled the commitments. In the North Atlantic Autonomous Region (RAAN),
the project concentrated on constructing infrastructure such as walkways (900 linear meters), wells (210)
and fertilizing latrines (166). In the RAAS, on the other hand, the construction of three rice threshers and
storage warehouses stood out, although there were also infrastructure works that provided remunerated
community employment. Similarly, the projects to construct a mini-aqueduct and a cacao dryer had a
strong effect on the local productive systems. In addition, a turtle conservation project was implemented,
training and community organizing activities were carried out and a revolving fund was designed and set up
to finance small-scale fishing.
D.2    THE PERFORMANCE OF COMPONENT I1 AND ITS RESULTS
23.    In the framework of Component III, it was PROTIERRA's responsibility to formulate and
mobilize funds for the Atlantic Biological Corridor (A.BC) project. To this end, the project did base
studies, facilitated the drawing up of the project, sought financing and succeeded in getting a donation of
US$7.1 million from the GEF and a loan of US$3.5 million from the Nordic Development Fund. In
addition, it negotiated US$600,200 as a National Government counterpart, US$570,200 in counterpart
funds from the Regional Governments and US$395,300 as a contribution from the beneficiaries of the
subprojects. The most important result of this component is the ABC project itself, which is approved and
being implemented. The formulation of the organizational bill that regulates the Communal Property
System of the Atlantic Coast and Bosawas was a priority in this process. The law is vital to defining
ownershup in the most important protected areas of Nicaragua and being able to implement conservation
and sustainable use measures. In addition, the disbursements for the ABC depended on presenting this
proposal to the National Assembly. This presentation constituted the culmination of an intense process of
consultation and negotiation on an extremely controversial and difficult issue of national policy. In this
process, experiences of other countries were taken into account through advisory services and sharing of
experiences on organizing and developing indigenous communities with Bolivia and Colombia.
- 50 -



E. ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPACT AND COST-BENEFIT RELATION OF COMPONENTS II
AND III
E.1    IMPACT ON THE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE TARGET GROUP
ENTITIES
24.    PROTIERRA'S impact on the institutional development of the entities involved in
environmental policy and management has been relevant. Its strongest impact was on the Ministry of
the Environment and Natural Resources, the Office of the Attomey for the Environment and Natural
Resources and the Army of Nicaragua. To a lesser degree it also had repercussions in the National
Assembly, the Supreme Court of Justice (Judicial School), the National Police, the Municipal Governments
and other nmnistries and entities of the state.
25.    In the case of the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources, the project contributed
to the taking of significant steps that have allowed the ministry to better assume its new standard-setting
and regulatory role assigned in Law 290. In fact, the different products generated in the interactive
process supported by PROTIERRA had a combined effect whose impact consolidated the style of
multidisciplinary and inter-sectoral work, strengthening its institutional development. MARENA
consequently improved both the technical profile of its human resources and the assignation of posts in
accord with the capacities and specialties of the officials and the requirements of the functions to be
performed. The ministry's territorial network was also strengthened, although to a lesser degree.
MARENA's Territorial Delegation (DTM) technicians have received training and now apply the
environmental management tools with more sense of ownership thanks to the project's judicial
accompamment process, which was very close and culminated with the DTMs internalizing the
administrative procedures in accord with the General Environmental Law and corresponding regulations.
Despite personnel rotation, the majority of delegations now understands the process and only need
occasional specific technical assistance for the most complex cases. Legal assistance to the Territorial
Delegations now forms part of the regular activities of the ministry's legal advisers. Developing the
capacities of the delegations has raised the level of MARENA's authority m the territories. The businesses
now perceive that the DTMs are able to proceed administratively to enforce the General Environmental
Law.
26.    In addition, the ministry designed and made official a series of substantial instruments that
allow more coherent environmental management with greater possibilities of efficiency and
effecfiveness. Thils represents a more solid starting point for influencing public policy and society as a
whole. In fact, MARENA has had an impact on sectoral policy, specifically forestry, fishing, water
resources, territorial planning, infrastructure and transport. It is also promoting and supporting the
formulation of other decisive environmental policies, such as those on agriculture, tounsm and mining. In
addition, starting with the initial support of the project and now continuing through the ABC, the concept
of biological corridors is being promoted as a strategy to conserve the ecosystems and use the natural
resources in a sustainable manner. This is being done through publicizing agricultural production
- 51 -



systems, the use of non-lumber-yielding forest products, the sale of environmental services and clean
technologies. The support to improve the ministry's advocacy impact in these aspects continues to be
provided through the ABC project.
27.    An important achievement of PROTIERRA was its impact on the institutionalization of the
National System of Protected Areas (SINAP). The project helped fill the vacuum of managerial
instruments. It also induced international cooperation to collaborate in intensifying the standardizing,
ordering and regulating processes for conserving, managing and sustainably using the protected areas and
their buffer zones initiated with PROTIERRA's support. The methodology for drawing up the
management plans in protected areas is now more scientific, technically consensual and incorporates
experiences from other countries. Although these instruments have not yet been internalized to the depth
required by the officials responsible for their application and the methodology for preparing the
management plans in protected areas has not been made official, it is in the process of being applied for its
validation. Substantive progress has been made in this direction, which has a positive repercussion on
conserving the biodiversity of the protected areas and their buffer zones. In this context, the participatory
process with the population and private owners in the protected areas in defining the conservation
zones and sustainable use of these areas and their buffer zones can be considered an indicator of the
impact and sustainability of the activities promoted by the project in this sphere.
28.    At this time, 9 private reserves have been legally constituted, 4 more are being processed and a
network of Private Reserves has already been created. MARENA's presence has expanded from 8
protected areas to 28. In addition, 8 Management Plans are being formulated and include the design of
socioeconomic proposals based on fann production systems with an ecosystem approach. The
co-management figure is also being developed and applied, which will emphasize economic
development, fostering of farm planning, stabilization of the agricultural areas, incentives for
conservation and payment for environmental services. The effects generated by PROTIERRA in the
protected areas sector will have continuity in the promotion that the Second Rural Municipalities
Project will give to formulating incentive proposals for conservation and to fostering investigation in
these territories. This project also includes encouraging the creation of Municipal Ecological Parks as a
modality of environmental service. At the time of drawing up this report, the Terms of Reference were
being formulated for the payment of environmental water service in the natural reserves of Datanli, El
Diablo and El Arenal in the department of Matagalpa.
29.    Furthermore, MARENA also improved its project formulation capacity in the case of the ABC
project and the Second Rural Municipalities project. The latter was drawn up in a participatory manner
and will be implemented by MARENA's own substantive areas in a deconcentrated and decentralized way.
In fact, the process of designing the second project and the way of implementing it indicate a qualitative
leap in the ministry's institutional capacity, which is moving beyond the need for a coordmating unit
parallel to the institutional structure. It is opportune to stress that PROTIERRA also helped develop
national capacities, since advisers, consultants and national experts largely facilitated the implementation
with little support from international consultants.
30.    At both a central and territorial level, the ministry also improved its endowment of material and
financial resources. Many current expenses assumed by the project are now part of the ministry's
ordinary budget. Nonetheless, although the Project Coordinating Unit (UCP) is technically integrated into
MARENA's overall mission, its costs are too high to be defrayed by the ministry's budget. It should be
mentioned that PROTIERRA's support to the ministry's institutional strengthening process motivated other
donors to contribute to this process, inducing a chain reaction.
- 52 -



31.    The Inter-institutional Assistance Program developed by PROTIERRA was influential not only
at an individual level, as in the cases of institutionalizing the Office of the Attomey for the Environment
and Natural Resources and incorporating environmental material into the curricula of the army and police
academies. It also fostered inter-sectoral communication, cooperation and work. A joint reflection process
was organized through the training program facilitated by PROTIERRA that created awareness and
sensitized the officials to the responsibility of their institutions with respect to the environment. The
different roles were discussed and the sphere of competencies of each institution was clarified, which helped
surmount the isolation and the conflicts due to competition and made the importance of working in
coordination on the issue of the environment comprehensible. This expedited the drafting ofjomt work
plans, which were in fact implemented. This process also involved organizations of civil society, thus also
strengthening the environmental initiative at a social level.
32.    With respect to the Emergency Assistance Program to clean up the damage caused by
Hurricane Mitch in the Atlantic Region, the project contributed to the Regional Governments'
accumulation of experiences and became a learning factor regarding governmental management of
emergency situations and implementing projects to strengthen and develop the local economic circuits.
33.    The formulation, approval and start-up of the ABC Project is facilitating the development of
biodiversity and natural resource management capabilities, as well capacities for sustainable
development in the Atlantic region of Nicaragua. This contributes to the development and sustainability of
the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC).
E.2    COST-BENEFIT RELATIONSHIP
34.    Due to the nature of the project, financial indicators were not calculated in its design. Nonetheless,
in view of the fact that the majority of the project results were achieved (see point E. l and annex 1) and
additional results and products were attained, and that the project's administration costs only represented
12.2% of the total amount executed (see annex 2), it can be stated that the project's cost-benefit relation
was satisfactory.
F. MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
35.    Over the course of the project, no major factors affected implementation of the activities or
attainment of the expected results and impact. It can be stated that the project implemented its components
satisfactorily, although with a certain degree of complexity since many of the products did not depend
directly on the implementing body. In some cases, bureaucracy hindered greater results while in others the
cooperation was fluid and the results optimal. The process of formulating the bill for the Organic Law to
Regulate the Communal Property System of the Indigenous Communities of the Atlantic Coast and
Bosawas was complex since many controversial viewpoints existed with respect to titling lands in favor of
the indigenous peoples. Nonetheless, as indicated above, the outcome was that the Executive finally
submitted the legislation to the National Assembly.
*36.   It was also difficult to persuade the municipal governments to gear their investments to the
environment as they had other priorities, such as constructing health centers, bridges, roads, etc. In the
face of this difficulty it was decided to strengthen municipal capacities by hiring technicians so they could
support the incorporation of the environmental focus into the investment projects to be financed by the
INIFOM-implemented component. The effects of Hurricane Mitch on Nicaraguan territory did not hinder
implementation of PROTIERRA and were dealt with in an emergency program for the Atlantic Region. Its
- 53 -



implementation was satisfactory despite the zone's own difficult conditions, the almost complete absence of
infrastructure and the limited institutional development of the Regional Govermments.
37.    Other factors that presented obstacles did not depend completely on the implementing body, but
those that made intervention difficult were surmounted. These factors, although complex at certain points,
did not impede satisfactory implementation of the project or attainment not only of the achievements
proposed but also additional results. In reality, component II of the project was not at any considerable
risk during its implementation, although at one point there were some difficulties with the transfer of World
Bank funds to the accounts in the national banks because of the embargo on the government of Nicaragua.
G. SUSTAINABILITY
38.    The activities implemented by the project geared to strengthening institutions relevant to
environmental management now largely form part of the substantive mission of these entities. Virtually
all of the environmental management instruments whose formulation and formalization were supported
by PROTIERRA are being applied. In the future they will probably contribute to a substantial
improvement in environmental management and help imprint an ecological focus on both national and local
policy decisions. Their impact and social sustainability can be better appreciated in the medium future
, as environmental management starts generating more instruments that stimnulate sustainable use of the
national patrimony, help overcome poverty and reduce one of the major focal points of pressure on the
natural resources and enviromnent.
39.    With respect to sustainability of the impact on MARENA's institutional strengthening, it can be
observed that MARENA has institutionalized the majority of the activities and is making use of the
management instruments for which the project supported the design, consensus-reaching and officializing.
In addition, several of the experts contracted by PROTIERRA to provide technical assistance are now
ministry officials and a large part of the running expenses of different dependencies, 80% of which were
financed initially by the project funds, now form part of its ordinary budget. In addition, PROTIERRA
promoted the formulation of the Second Rural Municipalities Project and supported the initiatives to
finance it. Through it, the aim is to complete the pending environmental management instruments and
continue the activities initiated by PROTIERRA related to decentralizing environmental management and
deconcentrating MARENA's functioning.
PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA
40.   In general terms, the World Bank, as the financing body for the PROTIERRA project, performed
satisfactorily. It was sufficiently flexible to adapt to the circumstances in which the project had to operate
and to the very nature of the intervention, as support to a strengthening process necessarily implies
continual changes in the target group institutions, thus generating new demands and posing new challenges
for the project. MARENA had a very efficient, highly participatory official who facilitated consensus
building and was technically able to assess the technical viability of the activities. Nonetheless, the fact
that there was another official for INIFOM made coordination more complex and prevented the Bank from
having an overall understanding of the intervention, a situation that changed in the last 18 months of project
implementation. With respect to disbursements, the World Bank's performance was satisfactory.
41.    For its part, Nicaragua, as borrower of the credit, satisfactonly supported the project's
implementation.
- 54 -



LESSONS LEARNED
42.    The experience accumulated by the project indicates that to improve the quality of environmental
management, duly officialized technical, legal and administrative instruments must be available. It is
also necessary to strengthen deconcentrated and decentralized functioning, designing and standardizing the
management instruments to be applied in the territories, as in the case of those used in the administrative
procedures employed by the DTMs in accord with Law 217.
43.    It is not enough to generate instruments for effective environmental management. It is also
necessary for the officials and social and economic stakeholders to internalize their content, manage them
properly and employ them effectively m carrying out their functions. The technicians must appropriate
the mandates of their institution, learn all about the procedures that they must follow to comply with
them and know how to apply them correctly.
44.    To achieve the success of projects involving diverse actors, it is necessary to reach consensus on
the work plans, activities and resolutions. This facilitates the appropriation and sustainability of the
results. In the case of territorial projects or activities, they need close accompaniment and technical
assistance to the municipal governments to formulate projects with an environmental focus, plan the
budget and above all foster participation and material support by the communities, such as labor, local
materials, etc., for implementing the activities.
45.    Work processes carried out by multidisciplinary and inter-institutional teams have better
results. Products generated as the fruit of consensus and participation have greater possibilities of being
internalized by the institutions, since the main stakeholders also feel they are authors of the instruments to
be applied. For these instruments to be sustainable over time, however, they require that all technical
personnel responsible for their application appropriate them. Given the importance of the Protected Areas
to the environment, it is necessary for the technicians to apply the technical, judicial and normative
planning instruments for these areas and their buffer zones correctly and systematically. This must be done
both in the institutional supervision of the design of the management plans and in their later
implementation.
46.    The work of the Police and National Army is vital to environmental protection, above all at a
territorial level. This makes it necessary to keep working with these bodies in the way already begun with
PROTIERRA. There is a lot of receptivity m the two institutions and a willmgness to deepen the
sensitizing and awareness-building of their members around the ecological theme. This makes it important
to learn more about the nature of these entities, above all the Police, and consider the national demands put
on them and the conditions in which they operate.
47.    To make the activities induced by the projects truly sustainable, they must respond to the real
needs of the institutions. The material and financial support must not cover all the needs. The form
adopted by the Bank, of initiating financing at 80% to later reduce it annually until the mstitution assumes
it completely, demonstrated its validity.
48.    To strengthen the sustainability of the results, the projects must not function parallel to
institutions, but mserted in the areas and spheres of the institutions appropriate to their activities. When
there are changes of project directors, they must continue with the objectives and strategies laid out before,
which have been the product of previous studies and consensus building, to avoid reducing efficiency and
setting back the effectiveness of the interventions.
- 55 -



49.    Personnel rotation affects the sustainability of processes, as occurred in the strengthening of the
DTMs. This suggests the need for a civil service law that ensures the necessary suitability and
stability of officials in their post.
50.   It is important for the project officers of the financing agencies to be familiar with the general
conditions and particularities of the country to be able to make necessary adjustments during the
implementation of projects.
J. RECOMMENDATIONS
51.    It is very important to continue going forward in creating instruments of institutional and
environmental management as well as deepening the training of local actors to be able to apply and fulfill
them.
52.    Given that the instruments generated have not yet been sufficiently internalized by the technicians
responsible for their application in practice, it would be appropriate to initiate a process of profound
study and assimilation of the management instruments generated so far. In other words, through
intensive study, generate technical capacities to interpret situations and apply the instruments that formalize
previous consensual decisions. It would be optimal for this learnng process to be based on the individual
motivation of the technicians, who should be stimulated to strengthen their capacities. On that basis, a
performance evaluation system should be introduced that links work performance with incentives regarding
both the positioning of the professionals in the institution and from a matenal perspective.
53.    It is necessary to disseminate the environmental management instruments more widely at a national
and international level. One suggestion would be to include the list of products whose generation was
supported by PR(DT[ERRA, as well as others already existing, in the MARENA Web page.
54.    The civil service law is important to improve governmental management and it would be very
useful for the Central Bank to support the Government of Nicaragua in this direction. In addition, the
implementation of projects should be continued with the collaboration of national advisers, consultants
and experts to ensure the sustainability of the impact at a national level.
55.    For greater effectiveness of the decentralized environmental management, the National Army and
National Police should be involved more as support to the agencies with a legal mandate for the different
environmental management activities. The agreement between MARENA and these two organizations
would have to be reviewed and a ministry official named who would be responsible for closer cooperation
with both military bodies. Similarly, the Second Rural Municipalities Project should include activities that
intensify this relationship at a national and territorial level. It is also important to continue supporting the
deconcentration process of the Office of the Attorney for the Environment and Natural Resources
since this institution is important to environmental management and requires support to continue its
institutionalization process. Support to the Judicial School should also be taken back up to develop
capacities in the judicial system and be able to deal with the demand for environmental management that
the Second Rural Municipalities Development Project will generate.
56.    The projects that involve two or more institutions as implementers must clearly define the
coordination mechanisms in the project document and explicitly delimitate competencies to avoid
discrepancies and delays in implementation.
57.    As it has done in relation to the PROTIERRA project, the World Bank must maintain its
- 56 -



flexibility to adjust the projects to the often-changing circumstances in which they operate. It is also
recommnendable that the Bank name project officials who understand the theme of the intervention and
will play a strong protagonist role in supporting the implementation of the actvities.
58.    It is necessary to constantly and widely disseminate the pertinence, target group, objectives,
activities, results and products of the projects, above all in the area of action, so that the general society
can Learn how the governmnent of Nicaragua's resources and those of cooperation are being invested in.
- 57-



ACRONYMS
AMUNIC                Association of Municipal Governments of Nicaragua
ABC                   Atlantic Biological Corridor of Nicaragua
CONAGRO               National Agricultural Commission
DANIDA                Danish Development Agency
DGAP                   General Division of Protected Areas
DGCA                   General Division of Environmental Quality
DTM                   Territorial Delegations of MARENA
INAFOR                National Forestry Institute
GEF                   Global Environment Facilities
INIFOM                Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Promotion
MARENA                 Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources
MBC                    Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
SDR                   Special Drawing Right
SINIA                 National System of Environmental Information.
POAT                  Territorial Environmental Plan
RAAN                  North Atlantic Autonomous Region
RAAS                   South Atlantic Autonomous Region
UCP                    Project Unit Coordinator
-58-



1.      Maria Victoria Urquijo    Consultant for legal aspects  and  institutional development of
PROTIERRA and ABC projects
2.      Beda Solares              Consultant on PROTIERRA and ABC projects
3.      Maria Marta Abaunza       Consultant on PROTIERRA and ABC projects
4.      Elsa Olga de Icaza        In charge of Acquisitions and Contracting for PROTIERRA and ABC
projects
5.     Jorge Lorio                Financial officer for PROTIERRA and ABC projects
6.     Josefina Balladares        Legal Adviser for support to the MARENA Territorial Delegations,
PROTIERRA project
7.      Ver6nica Arana            Technical Assistant to the ABC project and ICR facilitator
8.      GermAn Cruz               Former Director of Norms and Control for SINAP-MARENA       an
Consultant of the ABC project for promoting and developing secto
licies with an environmental focus
9.      Mauncio Fonseca           General Director of Protected Areas
10.     Ezzard Urbina             General Director of Territorial Coordination
II.    Marlon Perez               General Deputy Director of Territorial Coordination
12.     Hilda Espinoza            Director of DGCA Environmental Evaluations
13.     Marianela Rocha           National Ombudsperson for Defense of the Environment and Natural
Resources
14.    Gilberto Paez              Head of the Ecology and Environment Department of the Division of Civil.
Affairs, High Command, Army of Nicaragua
15.    Javier Davila              Head of Supenor Studies of the Police Academy
16.    Juan Antonio Serrano       Methodologist of Superior Studies of the Police Academy
17.    Joaquin Talavera           Director of the Judicial School
- 59 -



18.     Jose Parra                Main Technical Advisor of the Second Rural Municipalities Project
-60-



-61 -



