Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15562-NI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
August 14, 1996
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Nicaraguan Cordoba 1.0 = US$0.1212 (April 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC           Proposed Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor Project (GEF)
AMUArIC       Nicaraguan Association of Municipalities (Asociaci6n Nicaraguiense de
Municipalidades)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CERAP         Executive Committee fbr Public Sector Reform (Comite Ejecutiw para la
Reforma de la Administraci6n Pzublica)
CONAGRO    National Agricultural Council (Comisi6n Nacional Agropecuaria)
CSC           Community Supervision Committee (Comite Comarcal de Apoyo y
Supemvisi6n de Proyectos)
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
ECODESMIC National Strategy for Conservation and Sustainable Development (Estrategia
para la Conservaci6n y Desarrollo Sostenble en Nicaragua)
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment (Evaluacion de Impacto Ambiental
ELUP          Regional Environment and Land Use Plan
EOAT          Strategy for Environment and Land Use Planning
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FINNIDA       Finnish International Development Agency
FIAHS         Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development
FISE          Nicarguan Social Emergency Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social
de Emergencia)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GON           Government of Nicaragua
GTZ           German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IAF           Inter American Foundation
IA            Inter-community Assembly (Asamblea Intercomarcal)
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IDB           Inter-Amnerican Development Bank
IDF           Institutional Development Fund
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
INAA          Nicaraguan Institute of Water and Sanitation (Instituto Nicaraguense de
Acueductos y Alcantarillados)



INIFOM        Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development (Instituto Nicaragfiense de
Fomento Municxpa!)
INRA          Nicaraguan Institute of Agrarian Reform (Instituto Nicaragfiense de Reforma
Agraria)
INTA          Nicaraguan Institute of Agriculture Technology (Instituto Nicaraguense de
Tecnologla Agropecuaria)
IREJNA        Natural Resources Insttute (Instituto de Recursos Naturales)
IPDP          Indigenous People Development Plan
IRA           Institutional Restructuring Agreement (Acuerdo de Reestructuraci6n
Institucional)
LDC           Local Development Committees
LIB           Limited International Bidding
MAG           Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio de Agnculturay
Ganaderia)
MARENA        Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (4inisteno del Ambiente y
Recursos Naturales)
MAS           Ministry of Social Affhirs (WMinisterio de Asuntos Sociales)
MCT           Ministry of Construction and Transportation
MEDE          Ministry of Economy and Development (Winisterio de Economiay
Desarrollo)
MIFIN         Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Finanzas)
MIP           Municipal Investment Plan
MTU (UTAM)  Municipal Technical Unit (Unidad Tecnica Municipal)
NBS           National Biodiversity Strategy
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NEAP          National Environmental Action Plan
NGO           Non-Government Organization
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
NRDP (PNDR) National Rural Development Program (Programa Nacional de Desarollo
Rural)
PUG           Project User Group
RAAN          North Atlantic Autonomous Region (Regi6n Autonoma del Atkintico Norte)
RAAS          South Atlantic Autonomous Region (Regi6n Aut6noma del Atklntico Sur)
RRA           Rapid Rural Appraisal
RUTA          Regional Unit for Technical Assistance for Central America Agriculture and
Rural Development
SA            Special Account
SDC (CSD)    Sectoral Decentralization Commission of GON (Comision Sectorial de
Descentralizaci6n)
SDR           Special Drawing Right
SIDA          Swedish Intemational Development Agency
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
TFAP          Tropical Forestry Action Plan
TOR           Terms of Reference
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
UNDP          United Nations Development Program






NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. BACKGROUND ....................................................1
A. PR OJECT ORIGiN ...................................................                                                                                                                    I
B. EcoNoMIc AND SOCIAL CONTEXT ...................................................                                                                                                       3
C. LAND USE, RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE DEGRADATION ............................................4
2. INSTITUTIONS AND POLICIES ...................................................                                                                                                         5
A. OVERALLRESPONSIBILITIES ...................................................5 
B. SECTOR COORDrNATION ...................................................                                                                                                               6
C. NAT                 URAL  RE SOURCES INSTITUTIONS AND POLICIES ...................................................                                                                    6
D. RURAL  DECENTRALIZATION  ............................................................................................................ 8
E. LOCAL CAPACITY .....................11
F. BANK GROUP LENDING IN NICARAGUA ...............................................                                                                                                      13
3. THE PROJECT ...............................................                                                                                                                          13
A. PROJECT OBJECnVES ............................................... 13
B. PROJECT SUMMARY DESCRIPTION ...............................................                                                                                                          14
C. PROJECT DETAILED DESCRIPTION ................................................                                                                                                       14
Rural Municipalities Development Component ................................................                                                                                        14
Natural Resources Policies And Institutions Component ...............................................                                                                             17
Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor Component (GEF) ...............................................                                                                                    18
4. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ................................................                                                                                                               20
A. PROJECT BENEFICIARIES AND PARTICIPATION ................................................                                                                                            20
B. GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE ...............................................                                                                                                               2 1
C. COMPLEMENTARITY BETWEEN THE IDA AND GEF COMPONENTS ................................................ 22
D. LESSONS FROM PAST BANK LENDING ................................................                                                                                                     23
E. RATIONALE FOR IDA AND GEF INVOLVEMENT ...............................................                                                                                               25
F. BENEFICIARY SUPPORT ...............................................                                                                                                                 28
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN ...............................................                                                                                                    28
A. PROJECT COSTS ...............................................                                                                                                                        28
B. FINANCING PLAN ................................................                                                                                                                     29
C. RECURRENT COSTS ...............................................                                                                                                                     29
6. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT ...............................................    30
A, PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................................................... 30
B. POVERTY TARGETING ....................................                                                                                                                               37
C. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE .....................................                                                                                                                       37
D. PROCUREMENT ....................................                                                                                                                                     38
E. DISBURSEMENTS ....................................                                                                                                                                   42
F. FINANCIAL CONTROLS, ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING ....................................                                                                                                       44
G. SUPERVISION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION .....................................                                                                                                        46
7. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................                                                                                                                    47
A. SOCIAL IMPACT .....................................                                                                                                                                  47
B. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .....................................                                                                                                                            49
C. ECONOMIC AND FISCAL IMPACTS ........................0.........................                                                                                                   ... 50
D. SUSTAINABILITY .......................                                                                                                                                               52



ii
E.RisKs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .4
E .  R ISKS   ..................................................................        ..................... 54
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ...................................                                                     55
ANNEXES
BACKGROUND
ANNEx 1. THE POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL CONTEXT FOR DECENTRALIZATION
ANNEx 2. NATURAL RESOURCES ISSUES AND THE PROJECT AREA
ANNEX 3. SOCIAL ASSESSMENT: POVERTY, GENDER AND INDIGENOUS ISSUES IN THE WESTERN REGION
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
ANNEX 4. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
ANNEX 5. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES STRATEGY
ANNEX 6. SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN
ANNEX 7. PROJECT COSTS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
ANNEx 8. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
ANNEX 9. CONTENTS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN, OPERATIONAL MANUAL AND TRAINING MANUAL
ANNEX 10. PROJECT MONITORING REPORTING AND EVALUATION
ANNEx 1 1. PROJECT SUPERVISION
PROJECT ANALYSIS
ANNEX 12. ECONOMIC IMPACTS
OTHER INFORMATION
ANNEX 13. REPORTS IN PROJECT FILE
MAPS
MAP IBRD 27444 NICARAGUA - PHYSIOGRAPHY
MAP IBRD 27445 NICARAGUA - ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS
MAP IBRD 27446 NICARAGUA - AREAS OF POVERTY
MAP IBRD 27447 NICARAGUA - NATURAL FOREST COVER
MAP IBRD 27448 NICARAGUA - IDA PROJECT AND ASSOCIATED GEF PROJECT AREAS
This report is based on an appraisal mission carried out in February/March 1996 and on a pre-appraisal mission carried out in August 1995.
The Bank core team included Luis Constmntino (task manager), Hemando Garz6n (consultant, public finance), Douglas Graham
(Biodiversity Specialist - GEF), Maurizio Guadagni (participation), Marta Molares-Halberg (legal), Valeria Pena (social assessment),
Teresa Roncal (procurement and disbursements), Jorge Uquillas (indigenous peoples) and James Smyle (natural resources, RUTA II). The
following Bank staff and international consultants participated in identification, preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal missions and
directly or indirectly contributed to this report: Mark Cackler (portfolio manager), Silvia Castro (financial analyst), Ken Chomitz (land use
planning - GEF), Olga Corrales (consultant, environment), Maria Correia (consultant, gender), Mary Lizbeth Gonzalez (consultant,
indigenous people), Silvio de Franco (consultant, institutions), Pablo Gutman (consultant, environuental economics), Gabriel Keynan
(agricultural economics), Robin LeBreton (consultant, agriculture), Jorge Le6n (monitoring and evaluation, RUTA  I), Kathy MacKinnon
(biodiversity specialist - GEF), Juan Morelli (consultant FAO, costs and economic analysis), Jorge Otero (consultant, participation), Luis
Olivas (agronomist, RUTA I), Cecile Ramsay (financial controls), Roque Roldan (consultant, indigenous law), Daan Vreugdenhil
(consultant, protected areas), Thomas Wiens (economist) and Andy White (consultant, community development). Local project preparation
coordinator is Mr. Eduardo Marin (Advisor, MARENA) and local project preparation advisors are Ms. Ana Soledad Roman (Executive
Director, MNIFOM) and Mr. Denis Corrales (consultant, planning). The Country Department Director is Ms. Donna Dowsett-Coirolo and
the Sector Leader is Mr. Mark Cackler.



iii
NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJ1ECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of Nicaragua
Implementing Agencies:    Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(MARENA) and Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal
Development (INIFOM)
Poverty Category:        Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                   SDR 20.9 million (UJS$30 million equivalent)
Lending Terns:            Standard IDA, with 40 year maturity
Commitment Fee:           Standard
Financing Plan:           See para. 5.2
Net Present Value:        See para. 7.13
Associated GEF Project ID: NI-GE-41790
Maps:                    IBRD Nos. 27444, 27445, 27446, 27447 and 27448
Project Identification No.: NI-PA-7790






NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES' PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A. PROJECT ORIGIN
1.1   In March 1994 the Government of Nicaragua requested IDA assistance in
preparing a project that: (i) would have a large social impact on the poorest groups in
the country's main agricultural region (Departments of Le6n and Chinandega in the
Pacific region); and (ii) would address natural resource issues in this region and in the
forest areas most threatened by agricultural expansion (Department of Rio San Juan,
and portions of the Department of Chontales, and the Autonomous Regions of the
South and North Atlantic). The proposed Departments and Regions had already been
categorized as highest priority in the country's National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP), completed in 1993 and supported by IDA.
1.2   The National Agricultural Council's (CONAGRO) request for a project that
would simultaneously tackle rural poverty and natural resources was consistent with
IDA's country strategy. Nicaragua is the second poorest country in Latin America
and poverty is essentially a rural phenomenon. The rural poor are located in areas of
fragile natural resources. There is an intimate link between rural poverty and natural
resource (environmental) degradation. Rural poverty is an immediate cause of natural
resource degradation and natural resource degradation constrains the economic
opportunities of the rural poor. Lagging rural investment in the heavily populated
Pacific region is a factor underlying the increased migration to the especially fragile
Atlantic region.
1.3   Project preparation, financed by the Government of Japan, the Fund for
Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development (FIAHS), the Dutch Trust
Fund and the Global Environment Facility (GEF) began in December 1994 and was
carried out by a team of consultants under the supervision of the National Agricultural
Council (CONAGRO), with assistance from the Regional Unit for Technical
Assistance for Agriculture and Rural Development in Central America (RUTA III). An
IDA pre-appraisal mission reviewed the project in August 1995, and the appraisal
mission took place in February/March 1996.
The term municipality is used throughout this report as a translation for the Spanish municipio.
As used in most of Latin America the municipio refers to a geographical and admninistrative
division that includes both urban and rural areas.



2
1.4   During preparation, the objectives of rural poverty reduction and improved
natural resource management remained essentially unchanged, but it became very clear
that these objectives could be met only if the project placed a strong emphasis on
improving the capacity of local institutions in rural areas (municipal governments, local
NGOs and community organizations) to develop coherent community and municipal
investment plans within which viable subprojects could be designed and implemented.
This view was supported by the following considerations:
*  Growing evidence from Bank projects in Latin America that decentralized
rural development can be a successful strategy for reducing rural poverty.
*  Field assessments carried out during preparation indicating that local
institutions have a clear understanding of the needs of rural populations
and the priorities for natural resource management.
*  The lack of sustainable capacity in Nicaragua, at either the local or
national level, to assist the rural poor, to apply and enforce natural
resources policies, to manage protected areas, to ensure preservation of
key biodiversity values or to deal with the serious issues of indigenous
land tenure, especially in the Atlantic Region.
*  The on-going reform of local government, supported by IDA's
Institutional Development Credit (Credit No. 2690-NI), the formation of
the Sectoral Decentralization Commission (SDC), and the partial reform
of the Constitution (June 1995) including fiscal decentralization and the
proposed new Municipalities Law now in the National Assembly.
1.5   Given these factors, preparation focused strongly on the technical and
institutional needs of local government to develop viable subprojects aimed at rural
poverty alleviation and natural resource management. At the same time, it was
recognized that rural decentralization does pose environmental risks. Local
institutions do not easily internalize issues which extend beyond the local level.
Therefore, project preparation continued to develop components which would address
global, national and regional issues, as follows:
*  Global issues, of which conservation of biodiversity in the Atlantic is the
most important, are to be addressed by an associated project which will be
submitted to the GEF Council for funding by the end of 1996.
*  National issues are addressed through a technical assistance component
designed to enable GON to carry out a coherent policy and institutional
framework for natural resources and the environment.



3
Regional issues are addressed through an environment and land use
planning and monitoring system included in the project.
1.6   Preparation of the associated GEF project started in November 1995,
immediately after the National Assembly ratified the Convention on Biological
Diversity. It is expected that the GEF proposal will be submitted to the GEF Council
for endorsement before the end of 1996 and that appraisal will take place in early
1997. This timing is consistent with the proposed phasing of the project, which
consists of three phases, the first two supported by IDA and the third phase supported
by both IDA and GEF. The GEF supported activities are conceived as an integral part
of phase 3 of the Rural Municipalities Project (paragraph 6.24).
B. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT
1.7   During the last four years the Nicaraguan economy has undergone a
stabilization effort accompanied by a strong fiscal adjustment. Recently the economy
has begun to turn around as demonstrated by a 3.3% GDP growth in 1994 and 4.2%
in 1995 due in part to recovery of the agricultural sector. In the agricultural sector
basic grains (corn, beans, rice and sorghum) account for approximately 40 percent of
total agricultural GDP. A similar proportion of agricultural GDP is accounted for by
livestock. The primary sector accounts for about 33% of total GDP.
1.8   From the outset the proposed project was seen as a means of alleviating rural
poverty. Nicaragua is the second poorest country in Latin America. Per capita
income in Nicaragua was halved during the 1980s to less than US$400 (World Bank,
Review of Social Sector Issues, 1993). In 1993 infant mortality was over 70 per 1,000
live births and illiteracy affected over 20 percent of the population. According to the
IDA's Poverty Assessment (1995), more than 50 percent of the population is below
the poverty line and almost 20 percent below the extreme poverty line, defined as an
inability to afford minimum calorie intake. These poverty statistics are far worse than
for any other country in Central America.
19   In Nicaragua, as in most poor countries, the incidence of poverty is especially
high in rural areas. A high proportion of the total population (41 percent) and of the
poor (63 percent) and extremely poor (78%) lives in rural areas. Seventy six percent
of the rural population are poor and 36 percent extremely poor, compared to 32
percent and 7 percent, respectively, for the urban population. Sanitary services are
available to only 16 percent of the rural population, and drinking water to only 19
percent (UNDP, Report on Human Development, 1993). The poorest rural regions
are Segovias and the Northern Region, followed by the Western Region. The lowest
incidence of poverty is found in Managua and in parts of the relatively unpopulated
Atlantic Region.
1.10  Economic growth, particularly in the rural sector, will help alleviate rural
poverty. But the rural poverty problem is so serious and widespread in the country



4
that without specific initiatives targeted at reducing rural poverty it is unlikely that the
conditions of the rural poor will improve for many years.
C. LAND USE, RuRAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE
DEGRADATION
1.11  Nicaragua's natural resources are under increasing threats from expanded
agriculture, livestock and forestry production in fragile areas. The country's total land
area is approximately 12 million hectares, of which only 1.3 million hectares are
considered arable. However the land area actually used for agriculture is almost 2
million hectares, far in excess of the sustainable potential. A further 4.4 million
hectares of extremely poor quality land has been cleared for pasture. Another 2.6
mnillion hectares are classified as "production forests", but are mostly subject to
unmanaged exploitation and few resource rents accrue to local communities. About
3.4 million hectares, or 28 percent of the national territory, mostly in the Atlantic zone,
a region known for its pristine tropical rain forests and wetlands and the fragility of its
soils, is untouched, except by the subsistence activities of indigenous communities.
1.12  In addition to problems caused by the expanding agricultural frontier, a major
problem is the inappropriate use of those lands which have already been cleared,
notably in the Pacific Zone and in the poor Northern Region. Rural areas are
decapitalized due to lagging investment, deterioration of the physical capital and
degradation of the natural capital. Farming and grazing systems tend to be extensive
with low inputs of labor, fertilizer and water per unit of land. Livestock is reared on
mostly unimproved pastures with stocking rates ranging from about I animal unit per
hectare in the humid Atlantic Zone to 1.5 animal units per hectare in the sub-humid
Pacific Zone.
1.13  Despite deep, fertile volcanic soils, in Nicaragua's Pacific Northwestern zone
(Le6n and Chinandega) unemployment is high and land productivity low. This zone
contains about 15 % of the total land area and 25% of the country's population with
nearly 100 people/km2. In the target communities of Le6n and Chinandega, the
available farming land can only sustain about one third of the population at current
levels of technology. A typical farm household (of about 5.7 people living off a farm of
fewer than 7 hectares) derives an income of about US$130 per capita, which is well
below the extreme poverty line, and in one of the target areas of the project 31% of
the population lives in households with fewer than 1.4 hectares (average income of
US$220 per family per year) or with no land at all (9%).
1.14  In contrast, in the Atlantic zone soils are typical of the high rainfall humid
tropics, i.e. highly weathered, acidic and of low fertility and there are also natural pine
savannas of very poor soils and a complex system of wetlands. This zone contains
almost 50 percent of the total land area of the country, but only 6 percent of its people
with a density of only 3 people/km2. The majority of inhabitants of the Atlantic region



5
are indigenous (43%) and of African origin (15%) and the total population is about
250,000 people.
1.15  Traditionally, the Atlantic has been a zone of forest exploitation, mining,
fisheries, limited migratory agriculture and indigenous subsistence activities, but this
situation is changing. Recent years have seen a sharp rise in its population, as poor
families have migrated from the Northern and Western region and as Government has
sought land on which to settle ex-combatants. This has resulted in a high rate of forest
clearing for subsistence farming, followed by expansion of extensive livestock
operations, as farming has proven to be unsustainable.
1.16  The interaction of poverty and resource degradation is illustrated, not only by
the destructive use of the Atlantic forests, but also by a high rate of soil erosion, which
is a particular threat to sustainable agriculture in the Pacific zone. Nationally, 7.7
million hectares (64% of the country) are affected by erosion with 1.1 million hectares
suffering from serious water erosion and 155,000 hectares, 27% of the best
agricultural lands, subject to wind erosion. Adding to the pressure on land is the
return of demobilized soldiers and refugees, of whom it is estimated that 250,000 will
seek land in the near future. These new settlers will join the ranks of poor farmers in
the hillsides of the Pacific, Northern and Segovia regions or will seek subsistence on
the fragile lands of the Atlantic zone.
2. INSTITUTIONS AND POLICIES
A. OVERALL RESPONSIBILITIES
2.1   Three different levels of government intervene in rural development and natural
resource management. Nicaragua is divided into 141 municipalities. These
municipalities are grouped in Regions and Departments, but these do not have
administrative roles except for the two Autonomous Regions in the Atlantic.2
At the national level, the National Assembly has responsibility for elaborating decrees
and laws, which may be initiated by legislators or by the President of the Republic,
who may also publish executive decrees in administrative matters, regulate the laws
and legislate by delegation of the National Assembly. The govermnents of the
autonomous regions, North Atlantic Autonomous Region and South Atlantic
Autonomous Region (RAAN and RAAS) have legal jurisdiction over the use of water,
forests, community (indigenous) lands and their environmental protection. Through
the Regional Councils regional governments issue "regional directives" (ordenanzas
regionales) which regulate regional affairs. Municipal governrments legislate through
2   Regions and Departments were eliminated in the Partial Reform of the Constitution of 1995,
with the exception of the Autonomous Regions of the Atlantic.



6
"municipal directives" (ordenanzas municipales) in matters expressly stated in the
National Municipalities Law.
B. SECTOR COORDINATION
2.2   CONAGRO. The National Agricultural Council (CONAGRO) was created in
1993 by presidential decree to coordinate policies and activities in the rural sector.
Since 1994 CONAGRO has grown in importance, having assumed the key role for
rural development, coordinating the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG),
the Institute of Natural Resources (IRENA, now assumed by a Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources -- MARENA), and the National Institutes of
Agrarian Reform (INRA) and Agricultural Technology (INTA), with financing from
the IDA Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project (Credit No. 2536-
NI). CONAGRO has placed high on its agenda issues relating to the management of
natural resources. CONAGRO also oversees the PNDR (Programa Nacional de
Desarollo Rurat), which was recently created to coordinate an IDB financed project
of the same name.
C. NATURAL RESOURCES INSTITUTIONS AND POLICIES
2.3   MARENA. In January 1994, a new Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources (MARENA) was created out of the former IRENA by Presidential Decree
1-94. It now has the authority to: (i) coordinate and direct all public policy towards
natural resources; (ii) promote sustainable use of natural resources; and (iii) propose
laws, regulations, standards and strategies for sustainable use and protection of natural
resources and the environment through participatory processes.
2.4   These changes in the institutional structure for natural resources are a step
forward, but they do not in themselves change the fact that at the national level there is
a severe lack of capacity to develop policy or to implement it. The principal needs in
MARENA are the strengthening of the (i) unit for monitoring the use of natural
resources or the observance of laws and regulations governing their use; (ii) unit for
formulation and analysis of policies; (iii) unit in charge of tracking the implementation
of international treaties on climate and the environment; and (iv) unit overseeing
protected areas. In addition MARENA needs to develop (i) a strategy for dealing with
indigenous peoples issues; and (ii) its capacity to oversee the process of land use and
environmental planning. Finally, MARENA needs to assert its leadership in the sector
by providing training and technical assistance to other institutions on environmental
matters, in particular to: the National Assembly, charged with reviewing and
approving all environmental and natural resources legislation; the judicial system
(Supreme Court of Justice and the Attorney General's Office), charged with applying
it; specialized police and armed forces, which play an important part in enforcement
and which have already established agreements with MARENA for the monitoring of
parks and biological reserves, control of illegal logging, control of illegal trade in
wildlife, monitoring of turtle landings, and preventing and fighting forest fires; and



7
local governments which, given their expanding role in rural development and
envirornment, need a clearer understanding of their competencies and obligations.
2.5   Legal Frameworlk The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) notes
that the laws and policies governing ownership and use of natural resources are out-
dated. Nicaragua inherited from the eighties a legal framework based on central
planning and public ownership and control of natural resources which needs to be
reformed. This legal framework is inconsistent with current GON's strategy of
reducing the size of central government focusing its institutions on normative aspects,
it is inconsistent with the thrust towards privatization of important sectors of the
economy, and it is inconsistent with the rights of indigenous peoples and roles of
Regional and Municipal Governments as expressed in the Constitution and Autonomy
Law of 1987, the Partial Reform of the Constitution of 1995 and the proposed
Municipalities Law.
2.6   Nicaragua has already made some progress in rationalizing the legal
framework. Various laws are in draft form and proposals for laws covering forestry,
fisheries, mining, energy and contaminants are under discussion in the National
Assembly. A General Environmental Law was ratified in April 1996 covering a wide
range of subjects including natural resources and land use planning, the creation of a
National Environment Committee, an Environmental Fund and an Environment Unit in
the General Attorney's Office, the creation of a National System of Protected Areas,
the Environment Impact Assessment process and general guidelines on biodiversity,
forests, wildlife, water, soils and mnineral resources. The law gives MARENA the main
role in overseeing its implementation of the law and it also establishes new roles for
municipal governments in particular in executing land use and natural resources plans
and overseeing natural resources.
2.7   The General Environmental Law needs to be supplemented by complementary
regulations. New laws governing natural resources not well covered in existing
proposals (coastal zones, biodiversity, protected areas, soils and water) are also
needed as are regulations for each law (forests, mines, fisheries, coastal zones,
biodiversity, protected areas, soils, water, contaminants and energy) and support for
enforcement. New laws and regulations should help clarify the rights and obligations
of the private, social and public sectors as well as where local and regional
governments responsibilities begin and central government responsibilities end.
Significant conflict arises in the forestry and fishery sectors between local authorities
and communities, who want to reap the benefits from natural resources in their areas,
and natural resource users who capture most resource rents, but contribute little to
local development. The rights of communities inside protected areas also need to be
clarified and the inconsistencies between the rights of indigenous communities
expressed in the Constitution of 1987 (amended in 1995) and Autonomy Law of 1987
and existing and proposed natural resources legislation need to be resolved. However,
the technical capacity of GON to propose and regulate, and of the Assembly itself to



8
review these proposals and to legislate on them is limited and technical assistance is
needed to support the legal and policy reform process.
2.8   Natural Resources Strategies. Government has made progress in developing
a national strategy for the environment and natural resources. A National Forestry
Action Plan (TFAP) was approved by Presidential Decree 246-92 on September 7,
1992. In the same decree, approval was given to the National Strategy for
Conservation and Sustainable Development (ECODESNIC) and a Strategy for
Environmental and Land Use Planning (EOAT). A National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP) was approved by Presidential Decree 261-93 on December 3, 1993.
Together these plans provide a reasonable framework within which the following
priorities have been established for investment and institutional development (Annex
2): (i) soil conservation, water resource management and forestry; (ii) targeting of
resources to the Pacific Western Region, to the western part of the non-metropolitan
Managua Region, to the Segovias and Northem Regions and to the Atlantic Region;
(iii) integration of policy reform, coordinating the activities of the line ministry
(MARENA), the National Assembly, and the judiciary and enforcing agencies; (iv)
giving municipal governments and communities a say on how resources in their
jurisdictions are utilized and managed, decentralizing implementation of projects to the
municipal level; (v) participatory planning at the local level to guide public investment,
and (vi) better targeting of the benefits of resource use to local communities. All of
these aspects would be supported by the proposed project. MARENA has also issued
a draft Biodiversity Strategy which is now undergoing a process of public
consultation. This strategy assigns top priority to the conservation of a biological
corridor in the Atlantic region which would be supported by the GEF component of
the proposed project.
D. RURAL DECENTRALIZATION
2.9   Rationale. Centralized public investment and natural resource management
decisions are one of the problems in the rural sector. Many local rural institutions --
local governments, NGOs and community organizations -- are weak because until
recently they have been side-stepped by public investment and natural resources
programs managed from the center. Decentralization of responsibility for planning and
investment decisions to the local level is extremely important for improving rural
development programs and the situation of the rural poor because it makes more likely
that genuine local development needs are met. Today this view is shared by the
Government, NGOs and foreign donors and is consistent with the process of reform of
central government institutions, which is being supported by IDA's Institutional
Development Credit (Credit No. 2690-NI). The principles underlying current thinking
on decentralization are that national priorities should be satisfied through broad
thematic and zonal targeting of investment resources and that local mechanisms should
be used for their specific disposition. In the few cases where "local choice"
mechanisms through municipal government and communities have already been



9
functioning in Nicaragua the results have been generally positive. The GTZ/INIFOM
(Municipal Autonomy Project/Proyecto de Fortalecimiento de la Autonomia
Municipal) is one example, and the SIDAMINIFOM development programs for
infrastructure and community works in periurban poverty zones are another. There is
also an expanding body of evidence elsewhere on the advantages of decentralized rural
development solutions, several of which are being supported by the World Bank in
Latin America, for example, in Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia and Mexico. (See paragraphs
4.6 through 4.7 on lessons from experience).
2.10  Legal Framework. The foundation for local government action in local
economic development has until now been the Municipal Law of 1988 (Ley de
Municipios - Ley No. 40). This law authorizes local government to provide services
and exercise administrative authority over: (i) environmental protection; (ii) regulation
of urban development and land use; (iii) solid waste management; (iv) reforestation;
(v) oversight of natural resource use and protection; and (vi) creation of mechanisms
for popular participation in local decision-making. Several larger and/or better funded
Municipal governments (e.g., Le6n, Chinandega, El Castillo) have begun to exercise
these powers through the establishment of municipal environmental offices, employing
technical specialists, and the creation of environmental and natural resource advisory
committees. In a number of foreign donor-assisted projects as well, municipal
governments are beginning to function in their expanded roles.
2.11  Constitutional Reform. The 1995 Constitutional Reform (Reforma Parcial
de la Constituci6n) had important implications for local government. Key aspects of
the constitutional reform include: (i) regions were eliminated as administrative units
with the exception of the RAAS and RAAN; (ii) municipal governments were given
broad responsibilities over socioeconornic (rural and urban) development within
municipalities; (iii) municipal governments must now be consulted regarding natural
resource use contracts in their jurisdictions; (iv) mayor, vice-mayor and councilors
will all be elected directly for a period of four years; and (v) a percentage of the
national budget will be transferred to those municipalities with lower resource
mobilization potential. Following this reform of the Constitution, a new
Municipalities Law currently being discussed by the National Assembly would, inter
alia: regulate the election process; more clearly define competencies between
municipal and central government; comrnit the GON to transfer a percentage of
national public revenues to local governments according to pre-established formulas.
IDA has maintained an active dialogue with the GON on the decentralization process
in the context of the Institutional Development Credit (No. 2690-NI) and the
preparation activities for the proposed Rural Municipalities Project. IDA has also
financed technical assistance on decentralization and local public finance issues (see list
of reports in project file in Annex 13).



10
2.12   Fiscal Transfers3. The constitutional reform described above creates
conditions under which the proposed project could be sustained, by guaranteeing
disadvantaged municipalities a financial base on which to build their planning and
implementation capacity. Fiscal transfers from central government to municipalities are
currently insignificant (3% of total municipality revenues in 1994), and in their absence
disadvantaged municipalities rely on programs of line agencies or specialized
institutions such as the Nicaraguan Social Investment Fund (EISE), over which they
have little control. In 1994, 74% of all municipal finance originated from taxes and
fees, with the bulk coming from sales taxes and business registration fees. These taxes
are predominantly collected in trading centers where businesses are located, usually
cities and towns, which capture a disproportionate share of the country's local
revenues. As a result of this bias, the fourteen more urbanized municipalities in the
country, including 49 percent of the population, account for 75 percent of all
municipal expenditures. The municipality of Managua alone, which has 24% of the
Nicaraguan population, accounts for 42% of all municipal expenditures. While urban
municipalities such as Le6n and Chinandega invest more than US$4.00 per capita per
year and have total expenditures of more than US$20.00 per capita per year, the more
rural ones invest less than US$0.50 per capita per year and have total expenditures of
less than US$2.00 per capita per year.
2.13   Central Government Coordination of Municipal Affairs. The key
institution in charge of municipal issues at the central government level is the
Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development (INIFOM). INIFOM is a financially
autonomous institution created by Decree No. 497 of March 2, 1990. It has clear
objectives: to strengthen municipal govermment and to promote municipal
development. Accordingly, INIFOM provides training and technical assistance to
municipal govemments; is in charge of inter-institutional coordination between
municipalities and central government agencies; carries out studies and research
related to municipal issues; and channels centrally financed projects to municipalities.
INIFOM is also the key institution coordinating the decentralization strategy of the
govemment, the President of INIFOM being Chairman of the GON Sectoral
Decentralization Commission (SDC). IN1FOM is an unique institution in Latin
America. Its President has the rank of Minister and sits in cabinet meetings, but is
chosen by and responds to a Board of Directors composed of 32 people, six chosen by
the GON and the other 26 being elected mayors representing municipal governments.
INIFOM is therefore an agency both of the GON and of the local governments and is
the defacto representative of local governments at the cabinet level. This is
INIFOM's main strength. A recent report done for IDA's Institutional Development
3  Details on municipal financing are in the background papers in the project file: (15) Hacienda
Municipal y Decentralizacion"; (3) Capacidad lnstitucional de las Municipalidades"; (26)
"A signaci6n y Recursos para Inversi6n Municipal"; and (44) Estudio de Diagnostico
Institucional y Reestructuraci6n - INIFOM, Municipalidades".



I1
Credit4, which is supporting the strengthening of 1NIFOM, identified a series of
weaknesses related to administrative functions and to the capacity to assist municipal
governments, which are summarized in Annex 1 and which would be addressed by the
Institutional Development Credit (Credit No. 2690-NI) cofinanced by the World Bank
and DANIDA, and by the proposed project.
E. LOCAL CAPACITY
2.14   Rural Development and Natural Resources. Municipal governments are
being given ever increasing roles in economic activity, but for the most part have
serious limitations in their ability in assuming those roles. In the proposed project
regions, with several notable exceptions (e.g., Le6n, Chinandega) municipal
governments do not have the technical capacity for rural development and natural
resource planning and management. During project preparation a typology of
municipalities was developed (Annex 1), based on the relationship between municipal
capacity and revenues. Within the 32 project municipalities already selected for the
proposed project, the capacity to assume increased responsibility over poverty, natural
resource management and economic development ranges from "extremely limited" to
"limited". Le6n is the only exception. And it is the only municipality with a
medium-term, strategic development plan and with the administrative, managerial and
technical capacity to implement it. After Le6n, the municipality of Chinandega is the
most capable in terms of technical/administrative resources and financial status. The
other municipal governments are generally weak financially, administratively and
technically. Not unexpectedly, a negative correlation exists between the degree (and
costs) of on-going environmental degradation and municipal government capacity.
The smallest and poorest municipalities often are located in the more sensitive zones
(e.g. near remaining forests, in upper watersheds, in coastal zones, etc). While these
municipalities would tend to be of higher priority in the proposed project, they would
also be the municipalities with the least capacity to assume responsibility for planning
and managing the kind of investment envisaged under the project.
2.15  Financial Management. Adequate experience of financial management is only
present in those municipalities which have been able to raise and manage substantial
local revenues of their own. During preparation, an evaluation was carried out of the
financial control systems in 32 municipalities proposed for the project. In each
municipality procedures, staff qualifications, and practices were evaluated against the
Bank's norms and guidelines contained in the Financial Accounting, Reporting and
Auditing Handbook (FARAH). Of the 32 municipalities in the proposed project only
Le6n and Chinandega met the FARAH criteria. The study was used to develop an
indicator of financial management standards which is presented in Annex 1, Table
Al.4 and Annex 10, Figure AlO. 1. The study also proposed an action plan, to be
4  "Estudio de Diagn6stico Institucionaly Reestructuraci6n - INIFOM, Municipalidades". In
project file, see Annex 13.



12
supported by the project, to bring financial controls up tc Bank standards5. All project
municipalities do have at least rudimentary financial accounting and control systems.
About 70% of project municipalities have their defined organizational structure
completely staffed. Some 40% of them have manuals of municipal government
functions and 30% have terms-of-reference and manuals of procedures for municipal
employees. All but one municipality maintains a set of books which are current, and
the majority (80%) have contracted external, independent audits within the last three
years.
2.16 Non-Government Organizations (NGOs). Supported by numerous donor
programs, NGOs have assumed a key role as implementing agencies at the local level.
The term NGO, as used in Nicaragua, refers to a wide range of organizations - public
garden user groups, women's groups, farmers' cooperatives, religious groups,
environmental advocacy groups, and donor focused organizations. The NGO
movement has developed mainly where government is weakest, in particular in social,
rural development and environmental activities, with most growth occurring between
1990 and 1992. Today, there are more than 300 NGOs in Nicaragua. Most are
legally established. Most traditional NGOs have their own revenues from either
government transfers, membership fees, charges for services or international funding.
Some, more recently, have tended to rely on voluntary contributions and voluntary
work. NGOs dependent on international funding tend to be fairly well equipped, while
local ones are usually very weak. Nevertheless, collectively, the NGOs have assumed
an important role in the rural landscape and have acquired a high visibility (see Annex
1 for more details on NGOs).
2.17  Community Organizations. There is a wide variety of participatory systems
in Nicaragua, reflecting the recent history of the country, the political inclinations of
local government and the influence of donor programs. The most basic unit for
community participation in non-indigenous areas is the comarca, a non-administrative
geographical unit with roughly 500 people. On average, there are 50 comarcas per
municipality. In most comarcas there is an informal community assembly, the most
important community decision structure. In some municipalities comarcas elect a
community member to represent them at the municipal level or in inter-community
assemblies. By law some of the municipal council meetings, and in particular those
involving key budgetary decisions, are open to all the inhabitants of the municipality.
Municipal councils also hold extended meetings where community representatives are
invited to participate. The indigenous conmmunities in the project area (the Sutiabas in
the Pacific and several groups in the Atlantic) maintain most of their traditional
decision-making structures, but also participate in the non-indigenous structures where
these are operational. A constraint to decentralization beyond the municipal level is
the cumbersome process needed for communities or groups of individuals to achieve a
legal status, which requires approval by the National Assembly. This constraint would
be addressed by the proposed project.
5  "Evaluaci6n/Diagn6stico Contable de 32 Municipios, INIFOMy MARENA



13
F. BANK GROUP LENDING IN NICARAGUA
2.18 Cumulative Bank/IDA lending as of end-June 1996 totaled US$ 702 million for
28 Loans, 19 Credits, and 4 Supplementary IDA Reflow Credits. Of these, 28 Loans
and 10 Credits were approved and fully disbursed by FY80, and 9 Credits and the 4
Supplementary Credits were approved during FY92-96. There have been three IFC
operations that have been fully disbursed. The Board approved credits to support: an
Economic Recovery Credit in FY92, a First Social Investment Fund in FY93, an
Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project and a Health Sector Reform
Project in FY94; an Education Project and an Institutional Development Credit in
FY95 and a Second Social Investment Fund, a Second Economic Recovery Credit and
a Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project in FY96. Due to the break in project
implementation in Nicaragua during the 1980s, there is relatively little recent
experience from which to draw lessons on design or implementation. As far as can be
judged to date, however, the experience has been generally good. As of December
1995 there were no problem projects in Nicaragua and four out of seven projects were
rated highly satisfactory. The only project in the rural sector, the Agriculture
Technology and Land Management Project, is rated highly satisfactory.
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTWES
3.1   The main objectives of the proposed project are to reduce rural poverty and to
improve natural resources management. These objectives can be narrowed down
more specifically to the following:
*  To establish a mechanism based on municipal governments and community
organizations for reducing rural poverty through rural investment in
economic infrastructure, improved natural resource management and
small-scale communal productive activities.
*  To ensure that central government institutions acquire the capacity to
provide a coherent overall framework for natural resource policy making
and enforcement, accounting for global, national and regional
environmental priorities.
*  To promote the long-term integrity of a biological corridor along the
Atlantic slope of Nicaragua, conserving key global biodiversity values.



14
B. PROJECT SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
3.2   To meet these objectives, the project would have three components:
*  Rural Municipalities Development (US$35.3 million including
contingencies) would include: (i) institutional development of
municipalities; (ii) institutional development of INIFOM, as the principal
coordinating body; (iii) information, participation and training for
communities and the local private sector; and (iv) grants for community
and municipality subprojects.
*  Natural Resources Policies and Institutions (US$5.1 million including
contingencies) would include: (i) institutional development in MARENA
including policy making, enviromnent and land use planning and
monitoring and protected area management; and (ii) an inter-institutional
technical assistance program.
*  Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor (GEF)6 (to be determined, expected to
be about US$10.0 million including contingencies) would seek to ensure
environmentally sustainable land use within a biodiversity corridor and
would include: (i) involvement of local communities, indigenous groups
and municipal and regional governments in biodiversity management
through communication, participation and training; (ii) land use and
biodiversity planning, monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) a financial
mechanism to promote the sustainability of the corridor and to finance; (a)
protected area management; (b) biodiversity subprojects; and (c)
demarcation of indigenous territories.
C. PROJECT DETAILED DESCRIPTION
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Institutional Development of Municipalities (US$5.8 million)
3.3   Activities. The project would finance minor equipment and works (office
upgrading), consultants, training, seminars, workshops, study tours and other training
expenses and incremental salaries and other recurrent costs to help:
* Create/strengthen a Municipal Technical Unit in each eligible municipality
composed of at least one project specialist, one participation specialist and
one accountant/financial controller.
6  Although conceptually part of the same project, the GEF component would constitute a distinct
financing operation processed and supervised separately from the IDA components.



15
* Technical assistance to and training of municipal staff in: (i) design and
planning of rural development, natural resources and environment
programs; (ii) community participation; (iii) the Subprojects cycle; (iv)
municipal accounts, financial controls and monitoring and evaluation
systems; and (iv) aspects of local government management including
financial management, administration, procurement, personnel, accounting
and auditing, legal, local revenue generation and cost recovery for
maintenance activities.
Institutional Development of INIFOM (US$3.3 million).
3.4    Activities. The project would finance minor office works, equipment,
consultants, studies, training, seminars and workshops, study tours and incremental
salaries and other recurrent costs for:
*  Establishment of a Component Implementation Unit in INIFOM including
an implementation coordinator, a technical assistance and planning
advisor, a participation and gender specialist, a procurement specialist, a
disbursements specialist and an internal auditor.
*   Strengthening the Directorates of Planning, Technical Assistance,
Projects, and Information and Technology Services, and the regional
delegations, to improve INIFOM's capacity to implement the project.
*   Technical assistance for the design of: (i) a decentralization strategy; (ii)
reform and regulation of the Municipalities Law, including a section on
fiscal transfers for disadvantaged municipalities; (iii) proposals to facilitate
the legalization of communities and their representative structures; (iv) a
Municipal Workers Code; (v) study on the costs and benefits of
decentralization and (vi) other unidentified studies as approved by IDA.
CERAP (Executive Committee for Public Sector Reform) will be
supported for the carrying out of (i), (ii) and (v).
Information, Participation and Training for Communities and the Local Private
Sector (US$2.8 million)
3.5    Activities. The project would finance consultants, training and training
materials, dissemination materials, seminars, workshops, study tours and other training
expenses, and travel expenses for:
* Promoting and disseminating the project at the community level through
town meetings, radio, TV, videos, written materials, other informal
communication devices and seminars and workshops.



16
*   Operating inter-community assemblies (IA), and community supervision
committees (CSC) and participatory planning. (See Diagrams 1 and 2 in
section 6, Annex 4, and Operational Manual for roles of these community
structures).
*   Training selected community members, local NGOs and consultants in: (i)
all aspects of the subproject cycle; (ii) participatory planning; (iii) technical
aspects of natural resources and rural water subprojects; (iv)
methodologies for technology transfer; and (v) subproject and fund
administration.
*  Establishing and monitoring a registry of service providers at the municipal
level.
Grants for Community and Municipality Subprojects (US$ 23.4 million)
3.6    Activities. The project would finance small grants for eligible subprojects
proposed for financing by groups of beneficiaries, legal representatives of rural
communities, municipalities and groups of municipalities in the Pacific and Atlantic
regions and approved by municipalities within a municipal financing ceiling (see para.
6.16) through a demand driven and participatory decision-making mechanism covering
the following thematic areas:
*  Environment and natural resources, including investments in the control of
spill-over effects of soil erosion, protection of water sources, control of
wind-erosion, natural reserve protection, wetlands and mangrove
protection and management, riparian management, control of agro-
chemical pollution and control of water contamination.
*  Municipal infrastructure, including rehabilitation of municipal and
community rural roads, bridges and related infrastructure, municipal
markets, small water and sanitation and other subprojects to be maintained
and operated by municipal governments.
*  Community infrastructure, including small irrigation and drainage works,
community water supply, small processing, warehouses and distribution
infrastructure and equipment, community roads and other subprojects to be
maintained and operated by groups or communities of the rural poor.
*  Community productive subprojects for the rural poor, including collective
soil and moisture conservation, reforestation, farm forestry, subsistence
agriculture inputs, subsistence livestock inputs, wildlife farming,
ecotourism, subsistence fishing inputs and micro-enterprises.



17
Capacity building, including technical and legal assistance, training,
education, extension and applied research on all the above subproject
categories, on operation, maintenance and cost-recovery aspects; orn other
aspects of municipal and community management; and on the elaboration
of community land demarcation proposals.
NATURAL RESOURCES POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS COMPONENT
Institutional Development of MARENA (US$3.0 million)
3.7    Activities. The project would finance minor equipment, consultants, studies,
training, seminars and workshops, study tours and other training expenses and
incremental salaries and other recurrent costs for:
*  Establishment of a Project Implementation Unit in MARENA including an
implementation coordinator, an indigenous peoples specialist, a
procurement specialist and a disbursements specialist.
*  Strengthening the Directorate of Planning, Division of Policy and Planning,
the Division of Inter-institutional Relations, the Division of Protected
Areas and the regional delegations in project areas.
* Preparation and dissemination of municipal and regional environmental and
land use plans (ELUP) and a system for monitoring threats to natural
resources and compliance with the plans with full involvement of regional
and local governments and consultations and participation of indigenous
and non-indigenous communities.'
* Preparation, consultations, participation and dissemination related to
legislative proposals, regulations and studies covering the following
themes: (i) regulation of the General Environmental Law; (ii) proposal and
regulation of a Protected Area and/or Biodiversity Law; (iii) proposal and
regulation of a Forestry Law; (iv) contributions to the proposal and
regulation of a Fishery Law; (v) initiatives for the harmonization of
decentralization, natural resources and indigenous peoples legislation; (vi)
analysis of relations between rural poverty and environmental degradation
and other unidentified studies as approved by IDA.
7   The General Environmental Law of March 1996 assigns to MARENA and INETER the role of
issuing norms covering these plans and to municipal governments the role of elaborating and
executing them.



18
Inter-institutional Assistance Program (US$2.1 million)
3.8    Activities. The project would finance training, workshops, study tours,
technical assistance and minor equipment for inter-institutional assistance to be
provided by the Division of Inter-institutional Relations of MARENA to other
agencies: (i) the National Assembly, in reviewing legislative proposals related to
natural resources and environment; (ii) the Judiciary, by preparing trainers, curricula
and training materials, and training of about sixty Supreme Court and other judges in
environmental matters; (iii) the Office of the Attorney General, through the
establishment of an Environmental Affairs Unit (created by the General Environmental
Law of 1996); (iv) police environmental units, by preparing trainers, curricula and
training materials on control of illegal logging, wildlife trade and contamination from
mining and other industries; (v) army environmental units, by preparing trainers,
curricula and training materials on monitoring of turtle landings in the Pacific, control
of forest fires and monitoring of resource degradation and of protected areas; (vi) legal
offices of central government agencies, through training and technical assistance in
environmental and natural resources legislation and regulation; and (vii) thirty-two
municipal governments, by preparing trainers, curricula and training materials,
providing training in the role and responsibilities of municipalities in natural resource
and environmental management, including local natural resource taxation and
elaboration, use and monitoring of environment and land use plans. A detailed
workplan for this program is in the Project Implementation Plan in the project files.
ATLANTIC BIODIVERSITY CORRIDOR COMPONENr (GEF)8
3.9    During final preparation of this component a detailed environment and land use
plan for the Atlantic region of Nicaragua will be finalized including a delineation of the
biodiversity corridor and a proposal for the strategic use of resources in the Atlantic
including protected areas, buffer zones, forest reserves, indigenous traditional
territories and areas for economic development activities. This environment and land
use plan referred to in this document as the ABC strategy would be the basis for
defining kinds of subprojects to be promoted or excluded and source of financing,
either the grants included under the rural municipalities development component or the
grants included under the financing mechanism for the sustainability of the corridor
discussed below.
8   Although conceptually part of the same project, the GEF component would be managed as a
separate operation, with different timing, project documentation, legal agreements and
supervision reports. The GEF component is still under preparation, is expected to be submitted
for Board approval in FY98, and, if approved, implementation would start with phase 3 of the
IDA components. The component description presented here is preliminary and could be
changed during further preparation of the component.



19
Involvement of Local Communities, Indigenous Groups, NGOs and
Governments in Biodiversity Management
3.10  Activities. The project would finance consultants and training for: (i)
disseminating information on project activities among indigenous and non-indigenous
communities in the Atlantic region and involving them in project implementation; (ii)
training indigenous and non-indigenous communities in sustainable biodiversity use
and protection; (iii) assisting indigenous communities in pursuing formal recognition
for their land and natural resources rights; (iv) training and technical assistance to
municipal and regional governments for the implementation of the ABC strategy; and
(v) training of central government agencies on the ABC strategy.
Biodiversity Planning, Information, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.11  Activities. The project would finance equipment, consultants, studies,
workshops, training and dissemination materials, travel expenses and incremental
salaries and other recurrent costs for (i) continued land use planning within the ABC;
(ii) implementing a biodiversity monitoring system in coordination with communities
and local and regional governments to warn of threats to biodiversity; and (iii)
establishing a system for evaluating potential impacts on the ABC of development
activities (such as roads and other infrastructure and logging, mining and fishing
concessions) and for proposing and enforcing mitigating measures.
Subprojects for Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Use9
3.12  Activities. The project would finance (i) equipment, consultants, training,
workshops, seminars, studies and study tours for the establishment and operating costs
of a financial mechanism to promote the long-term sustainability of the ABC and
ensure coordination between the programs supported by different agencies; and (ii)
grants for sub-projects covering the following themes:
*  Management of protected areas, including protection investments,
management plans and recurrent costs related to the maintenance of the
protected areas of Bosawas, Cayos Miskitos, Indio-Maiz, Cerro Silva and
Wawashan.
*  Subprojects of sustainable use of biodiversity submitted by indigenous and
non-indigenous communities, municipalities, NGOs and the private sector
for areas included in the ABC in a way similar to the matching grants
described under the Rural Municipalities Component. Matching grants
would only finance subprojects that have a clear positive impact on
biodiversity and the integrity of the ABC, including training and technical
assistance for communities in biodiversity protection and sustainable uses,
9  The nature of the financing mechanism will be defined during preparation of this component.



20
demarcation of key areas, biodiversity monitoring and inventories, vigilance
systems, environmental education, ecotourism, sustainable uses of
biodiversity, etc. These subprojects could be financed as quid pro quo
agreements, whereby the recipient commits to sustainable resource use and
conservation practices in exchange for support for their development
needs. More traditional community development projects not specifically
tied to biodiversity would be eligible for financing under the Rural
Municipalities Component.
Subprojects, submitted by indigenous communities, for demarcation of
indigenous lands or territories which include biologically important
habitats.
4. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. PROJECT BENEFICIARIES AND PARTICIPATION
4.1   Beneficiaries. The main project beneficiaries are communities of rural poor
within municipalities of the Western (Le6n and Chinandega) and Atlantic regions,
including indigenous communities, who would receive grants for community
development projects prioritized by them. Through the project these conmmunities
would be able to play a more important role in planning and investment decisions at
the level of municipal governments. Other beneficiaries would include municipal
governments which would receive technical assistance to run municipal affairs and
which would approve and finance subprojects prioritized by communities, and NGOs
and local private sector service providers, which would receive training and assist
communities and local governments with the design and implementation of
subprojects. Government institutions would benefit from technical assistance to
strengthen their normative role in decentralization and natural resources. The entire
Nicaraguan society would benefit from improved management of natural resources.
Finally the world would benefit from biodiversity conservation in the Atlantic slope of
Nicaragua.
4.2   Participation. Project design included a large number of participatory events
involving local communities, local governments, NGOs and central government
agencies. One key objective of the project is to strengthen participatory mechanisms
at the level of local governments to increase the ability of the rural poor to voice their
demands and of local governments to meet them. Project preparation included and
implementation would include the following categories of activities to foster
participation:
* Information Sharing: seven workshops and many meetings took place
during preparation in the Departments of Le6n and Chinandega in the
Pacific region and of San Carlos, Bluefields and Nueva Guinea in the



21
Atlantic region. More than 94 different organizations, including 32
municipal governments and more than 50 NGOs, participated. During
implementation the project would continue to be widely disseminated
among eligible beneficiaries using appropriate technologies (paragraphs
3.5 and 3.10).
*  Consultation: a process of consultations with beneficiaries has been going
on since project identification, regarding project design, investment
priorities and local decision-making mechanisms. Social Assessments that
included rapid rural appraisal of target populations (indigenous and non-
indigenous) were carried out as part of preparation for the proposed
project. An Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for the communities of
the Atlantic region is well advanced as part of the preparation for the
Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor Component (GEF). The results of the
Social Assessment are summarized in Annex 3, and the Indigenous
Peoples Strategy to be supported by the project is summarized in Annex 5.
On-going consultations with beneficiaries to monitor the extent to which
the project is reaching them have been programmed during
implementation.
3  Participation in implementation is one key project objective that focuses
on strengthening local decision-making structures: the Intercommunity
Assembly made up of representatives of comarcas and indigenous
communities within a municipality; and the Community Supervision
Committee to increase the local accountability of municipal governments.
Furthermore, technical assistance to GON agencies will include
strengthening the process of local participation and consultations
regarding policy matters and the Project Implementation Unit in INIFOM
and MARENA, the Division of Interinstitutional Relations of MARENA
and the Municipal Technical Units would include participation specialists.
*  Ownership will be promoted because most local investments will be
chosen, implemented and operated by the beneficiaries themselves.
B. GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE
4.3   The project would concentrate on the Western Region (90% of local
investments) and the Atlantic Region (10% of local investments). First, these were
the two priority regions identified by CONAGRO and they are also priority regions in
the National Environmental Action Plan. Second, Leon and Chinandega is a region of
high population density, unemployment and poverty, and also the region with the
highest agricultural potentiallo. Thus, the project is likely to have a large social impact
0 See the following project preparation documents in the project file: (I) Descripci6n del Area
del Proyecto; (27) Ordenamiento Ambiental del Territorio; (5) Caracterizaci6n Econ6mica,



22
in the region. Third, in Le6n and Chinandega there is a relatively well-developed
local administrative capacity, NGOs and legally established community structures
(associations, cooperatives, etc.)"'. Moreover GON views this project as a pilot for
the proposed fiscal transfers to disadvantaged municipalities contemplated in the 1995
Constitution. Those fiscal transfers (block grants) would, if and when the new
Municipalities Law is enacted, benefit the 141 municipalities in the country and it is
important for GON to develop a working model of decentralized decision-making
mechanisms in a smaller number of municipalities to be later extended to the rest of the
country. Local governments and communities are much weaker in the Segovias and
Northern regions, where most of the extremely poor are located, and those regions
would not serve well for a model to be replicated. Fourth, in Segovias and Northern
regions there are already other donor projects, including two large IDB projects
focused on rural poverty and development (the PNDR and the recently-approved
Watershed Management Project). Finally, the project also extends to the Atlantic
because of the richness of its biological heritage, and the need to include Atlantic
municipalities in the capacity building and decentralization process, while at the same
time securing the conservation of critical global biodiversity values.
C. COMPLEMENTARITY BETWEEN THE IDA AND GEF COMPONENTS
4.4    The two IDA components, rural municipalities development and natural
resources policies and institutions, and the GEF component, Atlantic Biodiversity
Corridor, are all critical for achieving the project's interdependent objectives of
reducing rural poverty and improving natural resources management, including
conservation of biodiversity in the Atlantic.
F First the project would focus institutionally on strengthening the capacity
of rural municipal governments and communities to identify, design,
approve and manage eligible investments. In light of the current process
of reform of the state supported by IDA's Institutional Development
Credit (Credit No. 2690-NI) which is helping increase the quality and
efficiency of public services through restructuring and rationalization of
central government institutions and improve the financial and personnel
management systems, the use of decentralized mechanisms for channeling
local investments is necessary. This strategy is also consistent with the
Bank's experience elsewhere with rural poverty projects and with the
expanding the role of local government in the Nicaraguan economy.
However decentralization needs to be accompanied by the strengthening
of the normative and enforcement role of central governrment over natural
Le6n-Chinandega; (6) Uso Potencial y Actual de la Tierra, Le6n y Chinandega; (7) Recursos
Naturales Renovables, Le6n-Chinandega.
See the following project preparation documents in the project file: (3) Capacidad Institucional
de las Municipalidades; (4) Caracterizaci6n deAlgunas ONGs; (11) Evaluaci6n Social en los
Departamentos de Le6n y Chinandega.



23
resources and the environment. The natural resources sectors are plagued
by environmental externalities that spill over the boundaries of local
jurisdictions and local institutions are not suited for dealing with them. A
clear policy and institutional framework needs to be put in place to
minimize these environmental risks.
*  Second the IDA components would contribute to the Atlantic Biodiversity
Corridor: (i) channeling rural development investments and agricultural
intensification to the heavily populated Pacific region, thereby reducing the
causes leading to out-migration and expansion of the agricultural frontier
into the lowly populated Atlantic region; (ii) preparing critical legislation
on natural resource use and environment and supporting the enforcement
of existing and new legislation when enacted; (iii) through legislative
proposals, legal analyses and studies proposing and helping clarify
responsibilities over natural resource management between GON and
autonomous governments and indigenous communities of the Atlantic
region; (iv) strengthening the protected area system (SINAP) and the
institutional capacity of the Division of Protected Areas of MARENA,
charged with its management; and (v) training and strengthening Atlantic
municipal governments in environmental planning and monitoring and in
providing services to indigenous communities and increasing community
participation.
*  Third the GEF supported activities would complement the IDA
components by: (i) identifying priority areas for conservation and
sustainable use in the Atlantic to guide local public spending (the ABC
strategy); (ii) establishing sustainable mechanisms, including for
biodiversity protection, biodiversity monitoring and biodiversity impact
assessment procedures to ensure that local investment decisions
adequately internalize global biodiversity concerns related to the ABC;
(iii) financing local projects in the ABC related to global biodiversity
benefits; (iv) training local governments and indigenous and non-
indigenous communities in methodologies and technologies consistent
with the overall objective of improved natural resource management
including biodiversity conservation; and (v) as part of the Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan developing the legislative framework for
effective application of the indigenous peoples constitutional rights.
D. LESSONS FROM PAST BANK LENDING
4.5    Beneficiary Participation. There is considerable accumulated experience in
the LAC region on demand-driven development activities, which would be the basis
for the proposed project. A recent Bank review on this type of project in Latin



24
America'2 reported that: (i) by encouraging the active involvement of community
groups, such projects are much more likely to meet the community's needs than if they
are chosen to reflect the priorities of a government agency; (ii) once the communities
develop a sense of ownership of a project, they are willing to share in its costs and to
ensure its maintenance; and (iii) once a community group is given responsibility for
implementing a project that it has helped to design, it shows a great interest in
ensuring that the private contractor executing the project does so well and honestly.
4.6    Rural Decentralization. Experience of decentralized rural development
initiatives in Brazil, Bolivia, Colombia and Mexico has been positive. A recent
dissemination note"3 lists the following positive features: (i) local governments have
proven to be effective in identifying and implementing micro-projects; (ii)
decentralization has improved the response time of local governments to community
needs; (iii) local government action has improved transparency and accountability; (iv)
local governments have often been more effective in targeting the poor by involving
communities in project selection; and (v) in some cases, local governments have been
effective in raising local revenue. (See Section 7E for a discussion of risks of
decentralization and Section 7C for a discussion of costs and benefits of
decentralization).
4.7    A study that reviewed the rules governing three Demand-driven Rural
Investment Funds'4 is under completion by LATAD"5. It compares three projects
implemented long enough to have a track record--Colombia's Fondo DRI, Brazil's
PAC/FUMAC, and Mexico's Solidaridad programs--and explores the extent to which
a carefully-devised rule and incentive structure can replace central control and
centrally-imposed constraints, while assuring that "caudillismo" and "clientelismo"
will not become ascendant. The study demonstrates the wide range of possible
solutions that can be designed to foster accountability and efficiency, and highlights
the need for flexible rules that are grounded in the realities of local circumstances and
can be redesigned based on local experience. Specifically, the lessons learned from the
comparative analysis of these projects are: (i) A gradual process of increasing
decentralization allows individual municipalities to take control of the various aspects
of rural development, enhancing community participation. (ii) Targeting mechanisms
12  Glaessner, Philip, Kye Woo Lee, Anna Maria Sant'Anna and Jean Jacques de St. Antoine.
1994. Poverty Alleviation and Social Development Funds: The Latin American Experience,
World Bank Discussion Papers 261, Washington, D.C.
13  Aiyar, Swaminathan, Andrew Parker and Johan van Zyl. 1995. How Well Has Decentralization
Workedfor Rurtal Development? Dissemination Note No 2, Agriculture & Natural Resources
Department, World Bank, Washington, DC.
14  DRIFs are distinguished from social fund-type projects in that they specifically aim to target
rural populations and support activities that are more oriented towards productive infrastructure
and/or natural resources management.
15  Tom Wiens and Maurizio Guadagni. The Design of Rules for Demand-Driven Rural Investment
Funds: the Latin American Experience. LATAD Studies on Decentralization, 1996. Draft.



25
should be carefully designed both among and within municipalities. For example, the
differentiation of cofinancing requirements according to the income level of
municipalities--requiring a lower cofinancing from poorer municipalities--helps
improving poverty targeting. (iii) The enforcement of a complex set of rules is
essential but problematic. Therefore, particular emphasis should be given to
dissemination, monitoring, and enforcement. These lessons were incorporated in the
design of the proposed project.
4.8   Biodiversity Protection. The design and preparation of the proposed project
has drawn on lessons derived from World Bank experience in implementing
biodiversity projects. World Bank support to parks and protected areas has grown
rapidly over the last five years. The Bank's IBRD/IDA portfolio of biodiversity related
activities for FY92-95 includes some 27 projects with a total loan/credit value of US$
287 million. In addition, the Bank has implemented 31 GEF biodiversity projects
worldwide, for which the GEF participants have allocated $244 million between FY
92-95. A recent World Bank report, Mainstreaming Biodiversity in Development: a
World Bank Assistance Strategyfor Implementing the Convention on Biologzcal
Diversity, highlights some of the key factors contributing to successful project
implementation. These include: institutional strengthening, participation of local
stakeholders, financial sustainability, flexible and iterative processes, and decentralized
management of protected areas.
4.9   To date there have been no GEF projects in Nicaragua, but experiences of
bilateral financed projects in the Atlantic region, by DANIDA and the Netherlands in
the South Atlantic and GTZ and USAID in Bosawas in the North Atlantic, confirm
these lessons. These projects have found that small farmer training for the adoption of
appropriate technologies is the single most cost efficient intervention for
environmental protection in the region. They also found that assistance to indigenous
communities for the recognition of their lands and natural resources rights are an
essential condition for project success where indigenous communities are present.
Other highly successful activities include community development activities, such as
schools, which help to stabilize migrant populations, support for land titling for small
farmers, support on environmental matters to local govemments and to regionally
based representatives of the central govemment, and support to inter-institutional and
NGO coordinating mechanisms. The proposed project includes components and
measures that attempt to incorporate these lessons learned.
E. RATIONALE FOR IDA AND GEF INVOLVEMENT
4.10 Consistency with CAS. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Nicaragua, presented to the Board on May 27, 1994 (Report No. P-6340-NI), has the
following four key objectives: (i) reviving growth; (ii) reforming the public sector and
strengthening institutional capacity; (iii) improving environmental and natural resource
management; and (iv) alleviating poverty and investing in human capital. The
proposed project is consistent with these four objectives.



26
*  First, it would help foster economic growth by providing for public and
private investment in rural areas, targeting investments towards the
country's most productive agricultural region and the most heavily
populated.
*  Second, it would assist in the reform of public sector institutions involved
in natural resource management, strengthen municipal governments and
emphasize decentralization of investment decisions and project
implementation. GON views the local decision-making mechanism to be
supported by the project as a pilot to be replicated in other municipalities
with the implementation of the fiscal transfers mechanism for
disadvantaged municipalities included in the Partial Reform of the
Constitution of June 1995 and in the proposed Municipalities Law in the
National Assembly.
*  Third, it would improve environmental and natural resource management
through assistance for policy reform and specific subproject investments.
The associated GEF component, in particular, would support conservation
and sustainable use of biodiversity in the Atlantic Corridor.
*  Finally, it would assist in alleviating rural poverty and in improving the
skills of rural people and of local institutions that serve them. The project
would also meet a number of specific recommendations for the rural
sector of the recent Poverty Assessment for Nicaragua (Report No.
14038-NI), specifically: (i) strengthening sector implementation capacity
at the national and local levels; (ii) promoting agricultural growth by
removing information, marketing and infrastructure constraints; and (iii)
strengthening agricultural research, training and extension services.
4.11   Consistency with GEF Strategies. The proposed GEF component is
consistent with the guidance from the First and Second Conferences of the Parties
(COP I and COP2) as it would: address in situ conservation; include capacity
building; strengthen conservation, management, and sustainable use of ecosystems and
habitats, including coastal and marine ecosystems and mountain regions; strengthen
the involvement of local and indigenous peoples; and integrate social dimensions,
including those related to poverty. The proposed GEF component would also be
responsive to the objectives stated for the GEF Operational Program targeted to forest
ecosystems (operational program 2) and is part of a specific GEF sub-program
focused on Meso America that aims to protect a biological corridor from Mexico to
Colombia. Related projects are currently under preparation in Honduras and Panama.
4.12  Consistency with Other IDA Operations. The project would complement
four on-going IDA operations that support development of the rural sector, namely: (i)
the Institutional Development Credit (Credit No. 2690-NI), (ii) the First and (iii)



27
Second Social Investment Funds (FISE) (Credits No. 2934-NI and 2767-NI); and (iv)
the Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project (Credit No. 2536-NI).
*  The Institutional Development Credit (Credit 2690-NI) focuses on
supporting CERAP (Executive Committee for the Reform of the Public
Sector) and streamlining and improving management of GON agencies
through organizational reform, reduction of superfluous personnel and
programs and strengthening of management functions. Both MARENA
and INIFOM are included in the group of first six institutions to be
reformed and have recently negotiated Institutional Reform Agreements
(IRA) that would lay the ground rules for these institutions to receive
financial assistance. The proposed project would complement this Credit
by focusing on strengthening the technical functions of those institutions,
which are not covered by the IRAs, and by advancing the decentralization
process, which is one of CERAP's objectives.
*  The FISE, which is supported by both IDA (FISE I, Credit No. 2434-NI,
and FISE II, Credit No. 2767-NI), the IDB and other donors, started in
1993, and so far a high proportion (52 percent) of its investments has
covered social infrastructure (schools, health clinics, etc.), and only 0.2
percent has been directed towards the environment. The proposed project
would be highly complementary, in that it would focus on technical
assistance, natural resources and the environment, productive activities
and economic infrastructure in poor rural communities and it would place
special emphasis on strengthening local institutions -- municipal
governments, NGOs and communities. In the long-term, this process
should help provide a sustainable alternative to the FISE for channeling
local investments.
*  The Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project (Credit No.
2536-NI) focuses on agricultural research, extension and land titling on a
national scale for both small farmers and indigenous communities. The
land titling activities for small farmers are critical for the success of the
proposed project because more secure property rights would contribute to
reducing rural poverty by facilitating local investments. The land titling
activities for indigenous communities would help conserve natural
resources in indigenous lands and slow down the advance of the
agricultural frontier in the Atlantic. The proposed project would
complement this by supporting applied extension in natural resources
matters targeted at small farmers and by providing additional resources in
a demand driven fashion to assist with the demarcation of indigenous
territories, subjects which are not well covered in the on-going project.
4.13  The project would also complement the Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (Credit No. 2871-NI), recently approved by the World Bank, and which aims



28
at strengthening the institutions that are responsible for road transport in Nicaragua
and rehabilitating the Chinandega-Izapa section of the trunk road connecting
Nicaragua with Honduras and Costa Rica, which is in the proposed project main
region. This portfolio of projects in combination with the currently proposed one
would attack not only the social manifestations of rural poverty (poor health services,
sanitation, education), but also its root cause, the lack of technical, managerial and
financial capacity at the local level which underlies much of the rural poverty in the
country and the inappropriate and destructive use of productive resources.
4.14 Consistency with Other Donor Activities. There has been relatively little
leadership in Nicaragua on the matter of donor coordination. However, it is clear that
the proposed project and the on-going IDB/IFAD-financed National Rural
Development Program (PNDR) are central to the GON efforts to address rural
poverty. The PNDR is a newly-created institution through an IDB project which will
concentrate its efforts on the Central Region, providing finance primarily for irrigation,
drainage and economic infrastructure including road rehabilitation. The proposed IDA
project would complement the PNDR in that it focuses on a region of the country not
covered by the PNDR and delegates most decision-making to local institutions. The
proposed project would also support the expansion of successful operations piloted by
bilateral donors and NGOs summarized in Annex 1, if these projects are deemed top
priority by communities or municipalities and are included in municipal plans. The
proposed project would also make use of successful approaches to local government
strengthening supported on a pilot scale by SIDA, GTZ and USAID.
F. BENEFICIARY SUPPORT
4.15  There is evidence of strong support for this proposal. In the workshops
carried out in five departments and 32 municipalities and including NGOs and
community representatives, participants presented a portfolio of un-funded projects or
project ideas of US$31 million, with 38 percent for "green" environmental protection,
26 percent for productive projects of poor farmers, 25 percent for rural infrastructure
and 12 percent for training, research and extension. Past failures in micro-project
implementation were attributed by participants to a lack of trained personnel and to a
lack of adequate financial management, both of which are key constraints to be
addressed by the proposed project.
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. PROJECT COSTS
5.1   The total project cost (excluding the proposed GEF component) is estimated at
US$40.4 million equivalent, including incremental recurrent costs and contingencies
and duties and taxes (US$9.8 million). Base costs are US$38.7 million and
contingencies are US$1.7 million. Project costs are estimated at March 1996 prices.



29
The foreign exchange component would be US$5.9 million. The main expenditure
categories would be goods, works, operating costs (operation and maintenance and
incremental salaries), consultant services, grants for subprojects, training, refunding of
Project Preparation Advance and unallocated. Cost tables are presented in Annex 7.
The costs of the proposed GEF component would be finalized during preparation and
appraisal but are currently estimated at US$10.0 million. GEF funding of US$7.0
million is currently estimated to cover the incremental costs of the project and US$3.0
million would be co-financed by a donor.
B. FINANCING PLAN
5.2   The proposed IDA credit of US$30 million equivalent would finance 74.2
percent of total project costs (excluding taxes and duties) over an implementation
period of 5 years. It would cover 96 percent of foreign costs and 71 percent of local
costs. Local cost financing is justified on account of the high proportion of total costs
accounted for by local expenditures and because of the severe fiscal constraints on
central and municipal governments. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
US$3.2 million (7.9 percent of the total project costs) would be made available by the
GON over the project period as counterpart funding as follows: $243 million in 1997,
$534 million in 1998, $672 million in 1999, $807 million in 2000 and $943 million in
2001. Other local funding would be met from the following sources: municipal
governments, US$2.8 million (6.8 percent of total project costs); and private
beneficiaries (farmers groups, legally established communities, NGOs), US$4.4 million
(10.9 percent). The complete financing plan is shown in Annex 7.
C. RECURRENT COSTS
5.3   Incremental recurrent costs increase from about US$1.3 million during the first
year of the project to about US$1.7 million during the last year and following years.
Most recurrent costs are associated with the salaries of the staff of the Municipal
Technical Units (US$0.6 million to US$1.0 million per year). The salaries of the
Municipal Technical Units of weaker municipalities (type C) would be financed
through the GON budget until the proposed fiscal transfers to disadvantaged
municipalities become effective. Maintenance and operation cost of subprojects would
be financed through municipal budgets or contributions of beneficiaries. These
incremental costs would be covered by a combination of IDA financing on a declining
basis during the project period, GON counterpart funds, increased local resource
mobilization and the proposed fiscal transfers that are expected to be in place before
the project's end.



30
6. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND
MANAGEMENT
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.
Central Government
6.1   Steering Committee. The project's Steering Committee would include the
Minister of Agriculture, representing CONAGRO, the Minister of Finance, the
Minister of MARENA and the President of INIFOM. The Project's Steering
Committee would meet four times a year to: (i) review the project's progress; (ii)
discuss and take action on any development or natural resources issues related to the
project; (iii) coordinate project activities and other donor and GON programs in
natural resources management, rural poverty and rural development; and (iv) support
project implementation activities through its line agencies and representatives at the
regional level, if requested.
6.2   INIFOM. INIFOM would be responsible for the implementation of the Rural
Municipalities Development Component. Its specific responsibilities would include:
*  Managing relations with IDA, CONAGRO and MIFIN; ensuring that
(i) administrative tasks are performed and reporting related to the
project accounts, disbursement applications and audits are carried out;
(ii) legal agreements with implementing municipalities are observed in
the implementation of the component; (iii) adequate counterpart
funding is provided in GON' s budget; (iv) funds are being used for
their intended purposes; (v) agreed procurement procedures are being
followed; (vi) and periodic reports are prepared.
*  Assisting municipalities with the planning and subproject cycle;
overseeing agreements with municipal governments for the execution
of specific subprojects; approving and disbursing against municipal
plans; operating the monitoring and evaluation system; conducting
procurement on behalf of municipal governments; supervising sample
projects and municipal plans; appraising subprojects and/or involving
line agencies or consultants in the appraisal of subprojects beyond the
thresholds; approving subprojects delegating such approval to
municipalities under conditions stipulated in the Operational Manual;
and making decisions regarding increases in the project approval
thresholds of municipal governments.
*  Designing TORs and supervising consultants for the various training
and technical assistance programs under the component, including
assisting municipalities set up the Municipal Technical Units; designing



31
and supervising technical assistance requested by municipalities on
aspects of municipal management; promoting the project with
communities and training community leaders and professionals; pre-
qualifying NGOs and consultants; maintaining updated rosters and
making them available to municipalities; and assisting the
Decentralization Commission of GON. To simplify the technical
assistance tasks, most would be bundled together into a small number
of contracts covering the following three themes: (i) recruitment and
training of MTUs and assistance to municipalities with the financial
control and monitoring and evaluation systems; (ii) promoting the
project and community structures and participatory planning; and (iii)
training of NGOs and professionals and certification of professionals.
Because INIFOM is not a specialized institution it would consult with
GON' s line agencies on aspects related to the training programs and
appraisal of sub-projects beyond the thresholds.
6.3   INIIFOM Project Implementation Unit. To enable INIFOM to perform
those functions, a Project Implementation Unit would be set up in INIFOM in charge
of liaison with IDA and coordinating activities among the various Directorates of
INIFOM involved in project implementation. The INIFOM Project Implementation
Unit would include: the Director of Planning, a Technical Support Group formed by
staff from the Directorates of Projects, Technical Assistance, Financing and
Administration and Regional Delegations of Le6n and San Carlos and other regional
delegations as new regions join the project; and six staff/consultants: implementation
coordinator, planning and technical assistance advisor, participation and gender
advisor, disbursements and accounting officer, procurement officer and internal
auditor and two support staff: secretary and driver. INIFOM's staff working on
project implementation would be located in the various Directorates and would
coordinate project activities through the Technical Support Group.
6.4   MARENA. MARENA would be responsible for the implementation of the
Natural Resources Policy and Institutions Component and the proposed Atlantic
Biodiversity Corridor Component (GEF). Its specific responsibilities would include:
Managing relations with IDA, CONAGRO and MIFIN. This would
involve ensuring that administrative tasks are performed and reporting
related to the project accounts, reimbursement applications and audit. It
would also involve ensuring that agreements, if any, with beneficiary
institutions of the Interinstitutional Assistance Program are being
observed, that adequate counterpart funding is provided in GON's
budget, that funds are being used for their intended purposes, that
agreed procurement procedures are being followed and that periodic
reports are prepared.



32
*  Executing all the activities of the Natural Resources Component
including designing TORs and supervising consultants for the various
training and technical assistance programs, elaborating environmental
and land use plans and involving municipal and regional governments in
the process, disseminating and monitoring them, drafting legislation and
holding public consultations to discuss the proposals, and supervising
studies on natural resources policy matters. To simplify the technical
assistance tasks these would be bundled together into a small number of
contracts covering the following themes: (i) strengthening the
Directorate of Planning and Protected Areas of MARENA; (ii)
environmental and land use planning and monitoring; and (iii) the inter-
institutional assistance program.
  Preparing and implementing the Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor
Component. This would involve finalizing preparation of component
including the ABC strategy in collaboration with municipal and regional
governments, involving communities in preparation activities and
ensuring that all tasks for its implementation are carried out.
6.5   MARENA Project Unit. The MARENA Project Unit would include: the
Director of Planning,; the Director of Protected Areas; and a Technical Support Group
formed by staff from the Directorates of Forestry, Environment and Finance and
Administration. An Implementation Coordinator would be recruited to assist the
Directors of Planning and Protected Areas with reporting requirements and other
matters related to the project. Disbursements, accounting and procurement activities
would be carried out by the relevant Divisions of MARENA under the supervision of
the Component Coordinator.
6.6   Line Agencies. Line agencies such as MAG, INTA, INRA, INAA, and MCT
and special agencies such as FISE and PNDR, would have an important role to play in
assisting with the technical appraisal of sub-projects above the threshold (see Annex 4
and Operational Manual), quality control over and contribution to the training
programs (see Annex 4), and overall coordination of project initiatives with other
activities under their responsibility. The FISE in particular would make available its
computerized subproject monitoring system for adaptation to the proposed project,
rosters of consultants, operational manual and procedures for appraising economic
infrastructure subprojects, and its experience in executing demand driven subprojects
in general. The project would cover incremental travel expenses of staff of these
agencies or the cost of consultants to assist them in appraising projects or in reviewing
or delivering training. The Executive Committee for Public Sector Reform (CERAP)
would assume responsibility for developing the Decentralization Strategy. As a
condition of disbursements: (a) for subprojects over US$50,000 equivalent, INIFOM
would sign (an) agreement(s) with MAG, MCT, MARENA, INRA, INTA, INAA,
PNDR and/or FISE to set forth their respective responsibilities in the revision of



33
subprojects of over US$50,000; and (b) for the preparation of decentralization studies
INIFOM would sign an agreement with CERAP.
Local Government
6.7    Municipal Technical Units (MTUs). The Municipal Technical Units would
be the key project coordinating and implementing structures at the local level. They
would be established or (where they currently exist) strengthened in each participating
municipality to: promote the project, manage the participatory process including
helping communities define needs and identify projects; elaborate municipal plans;
assist communities with recruitment of consultants and NGOs for identification,
preparation, implementation and operation of subprojects in accordance with the
agreed criteria set out in the Operational Manual; appraise subprojects; carry out
procurement tasks on behalf of comrnmunities; supervise subprojects and oversee
agreements with communities; and liaise with INIFOM and other GON agencies.
Each Municipal Technical Unit would report to the Mayor and would include at least
three staff: one professional staff to be nominated Local Project Coordinator (LPC) by
the mayor, subject to no-objection from INIFOM, which would be in charge of all
matters related to the project and which would meet regularly with the Regional
Delegate of INIFOM to review component progress at the municipal level; one
participation specialist responsible for project promotion and conmnunity participation
activities; and one accountant responsible for maintaining project accounts and help
upgrade municipal accounts. These staff would either be municipal staff or would be
specifically recruited for the tasks depending on municipal strength.
6.8    Municipal Council. The Municipal Council, with the assistance of the
Community Supervision Committee and the Municipal Technical Unit, would ratify the
Municipal Investment Plans, approve subprojects included in those plans, ensure that
agreements with INIFOM and communities are being followed and make decisions
regarding unforeseen circumstances affecting subprojects.
Communities16
6.9   Intercommunity Assembly (IA). The Intercommunity Assembly (IA) would
be the key community decision-making structure. It would be formed by
representatives of each comarca and indigenous communities within each municipality
and could include representatives of community organizations such as producers
associations, religious groups, local NGOs, etc. The IA would normally meet three
16  The community structures to be fostered and strengthened by the project are for the most part
informal consultative groups of individuals from different communities and lack juridical
personality. Given that their role in the project would continue to be mostly for consultation and
information transfer, the lack of legal status of these groups is not deemed to be a constraint to
project implementation. Nevertheless the project would support the legalization of community
structures through (i) the preparation of legislative initiatives; and (ii) technical assistance to
communities in seeking legal status.



34
times a year to: (i) discuss and define priorities for community needs; (ii) assist with
the elaboration, discuss and make recommendations regarding municipal plans; and
(iii) elect the members of the Community Supervision Committee.
6.10 Community Supervision Committee (CSC). The CSC is a small structure
chosen by the Intercommunity Assembly whose main role would be to ensure that
municipal governments respect community interests during selection of proposals and
project execution. It would: (i) supervise project and subproject execution on behalf
of communities; (ii) issue monitoring reports on local government activities both to
communities and INIFOM; (iii) assist Municipal Councils in making decisions about
municipal plans and subprojects; (iv) ensure that municipal council decisions are fully
disseminated among community members; and (v) keep the Intercommunity Assembly
informed of project execution at the municipal level.
6.11  Project User Group (PUG). The Project User Group would be composed of
those community members with a direct interest in the subproject. The PUG could be
an informal or formal organization such as a local NGO, depending on the subproject.
The PUG would be responsible for providing assistance for or implementing, operating
and maintaining community sub-projects, either directly or through contractors.
Municipal Planning and Subproject Cycles.
6.12 Local Decision-making Mechanisms. A key objective of the proposed
project is to establish a decentralized mechanism for decisions over local investments
for poverty reduction and improved natural resources management. These mechanisms
are summarized in the planning and subproject cycles shown in Diagrams 1 and 2 and
more extensively discussed in Annex 4 and the Operational Manual.
6.13   Restrictions. Eligibility of and restrictions on subprojects are discussed in
Annex 4 and Operational Manual. Among others: (i) no subprojects would be
financed in towns of more than 10,000 people; (ii) 60% of grants in each municipality
for the project period (5 years) would be for subprojects outside the main town/village
in a municipality (cabecera); and (3) subprojects eligible for financing by commercial
lending institutions would not qualify. Subprojects would also have to be consistent
with Environment and Land Use Plans and with the ABC in the Atlantic (Rural
Municipalities Development Component and Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor
Component).
6.14  Municipal eligibility. To be eligible for project financing, municipalities
would have to enter into an agreement with INIFOM (the INIFOM-Municipality
Eligibility and Financing Agreement; sample included in the Operational Manual), in
which they would agree to: (i) follow the rules in the Operational Manual; (ii) create
or strengthen the Municipal Technical Unit; (iii) establish project accounts and bring
financial controls up to IDA standards as per indicators discussed in Annex 10; (iv)
establish and operate a project monitoring and evaluation system; (v) promote the



35
project with communities and bring the level of community participation and public
accountability up to the standards discussed in the Operational Manual and per
indicators of Annex 10; and (vi) develop municipal investment plans respecting
community priorities and the environment and land use plans (ELUP) developed under
the Natural Resources Policies and Institutions Components.
Diagram 1. The Municipal Planning Cycle17
Participatory Planning            Draft Municipal Plan           Prioritization of Investments
Supported by MTUs and local      MTU elaborates draft investment    MII submits draft plan to IA,
NGOs or consultants.             plan taking into account           which prioritizes investments
Communities prioritize needs     community and municipal            among communities taking into
and investments.                 priorities and develops            account budget constraints.
preliminary feasibility and cost
estimates.
Subproject Cycle              Confirmation of Financing        Approval of Municipal Plan
The subproject cycle starts (see  INIFOM confirms eligibility for   MTU finalizes investment plan
Diagram 2). The M1TU and CSP     IDA (or other) financing, signs    respecting IA decisions and
evaluate subprojects and feed    Implementation Agreement and/or    submits to Municipal Council
information into next planning   Beneficiary Agreement and makes    for approval.
cycle.                           advance payments for subprojects
in municipal account.
6.15   Subproject cycle. The subproject cycle is summarized in Diagram 2 and
detailed in Annex 4 and in the Operational Manual. Subproject proposals would be
submitted according to guidelines described in the project's training manual (being
developed) and, though simple, would include: (i) subproject background and
description; (ii) description of the executing entity and identification of beneficiaries
and project user group(s); (iii) justification; (iv) expected economic, environmental and
poverty reduction benefits including at least one implementation and one impact
indicator; (v) budget and financial plan; (vi) training and technical assistance plan; and
(vii) operation and maintenance plan. Subproject appraisal would include: (1) a
technical evaluation; (2) an environmental evaluation; (3) an evaluation of poverty
reduction potential; and (4) a recommendation for approval, rejection or redesign.
6.16   Financing Ceilings. Each year there would be a financing ceiling per
municipality calculated on the basis of a formula applied to a total annual budget that
increases from the first to the last year of the project. The formula takes into account
population, rural poverty, size of municipality, participation effort, resource
7  IA - Intercommunity Assembly; MTU - Municipal Technical Unit; CSP - Community
Supervision Comniittee.



36
mobilization effort and fixed costs. The formula and annual allocations by municipality
are detailed in the Operational Manual and in Annex 4.
6.17 Penalties and incentives. Quality control would be ensured more through ex-
post mechanisms than through ex-ante controls. First, those municipalities that are
able to implement participation and accountability practices and receive positive audit
reports after one year of operation will be able to approve subprojects up to
US$50,000. The decision to delegate approval of all subprojects between US$25,000
and US$50,000 to municipalities will be taken by INIFOM subject to non-objection by
IDA and based on information submitted by external financial and technical audits and
by the Community Supervision Committees. Second, a municipality that is considered
non-performing by INIFOM, for example due to dishonest practices or refusal to
follow participatory practices or to target the rural poor, would, subject to IDA's non-
objection, lose access to the IDA financed grants and the municipality's communities
would be informed of the decision.
Diagram 2. The Sub-project Cycle'8
Subproject identification          Subproject preparation             Subproject appraisal
Beneficiaries, communities or    Beneficiaries, communities or      MTU appraises or hires NGOs
municipalities assisted by NGOs,  municipalities prepare or hire    or consultants to appraise project
consultants or public agencies   NGOs or consultants from roster     proposals.
identify sub-project and Project  to prepare sub-project proposals
User Group (PUG) if needed,
consistent with MIPs.
Subproject evaluation                                                Subproject approval
MTU, CSC and INIFOM                                                 Municipal Council approves
evaluate subprojects and                                            subprojects. INIFOM approves
disseminate results of evaluation                                   subprojects greater than
among municipalities and                                            US$25,000 (or US$50,000)'3
communities in project.                                             relying on advice of line
,agencies, NGOs or consultants.
Subproject Maintenance and       _                                                ,
Operation                  Subproject implementation             Formal agreements
Beneficiaries, legally established  Beneficiaries or municipality   MTU signs agreements with
communities, NGO, contractor     contractor implement sub-project.  legally established beneficiaries
or municipality maintain and   4    MTU and CSC supervise and  4    for sub-project implementation
operate subproject as per project  monitor implementation. INIFOM   and operation if needed.
maintenance and operation plan.  supervises sample.
is See paragraph 6.17 for discussion of thresholds.



37
6.18  Local Cofinancing. All subprojects (with the exception of capacity building
subprojects) would require matching funds from beneficiaries, whether individuals,
legally established communities, cooperatives, producers' associations, NGOs or
municipalities, in accordance with criteria listed in Table 1. Two types of cofinancing
would be allowed: (i) by beneficiaries, which could be in kind or labor; and (ii) by
municipal governments.
6.19   Operational Manual. The eligibility of beneficiaries, the amount of financing
under a grant, the selection, appraisal, approval, monitoring and evaluation procedures
of the grants/subprojects are contained in the Operational Manual and assurances of its
compliance were obtained during negotiations. Adoption of the Manual is required
before disbursements for the Rural Municipalities Development Component.
Table 1. Subproject cofinancing matrix
Subproject category              Maximum matchin grant (percentage)
Type A and B municipality  Type C municipality
Environment                        75                       90
Municipal infrastructure           60                       75
Community infrastructure           75                       75
Community productive               75                       75
Technical assistance               100                     100
Note: see Annex 1 for definition of types A, B and C municipalities.
B. POVERTY TARGETING
6.20   The overall project would include four general poverty targeting mechanisms
to ensure that the rural poor are the main project beneficiaries: (i) Subprojects would
be identified, approved or endorsed by community members in the Intercommunity
Assembly, which would ensure that the poor have an opportunity to present their
needs. Since the majority of the population in rural areas is classified as poor, it would
be likely that the needs of the poor would receive higher priority in collective
decisions; and since the opportunity cost of participating in the participatory
structures is likely to be higher for the non-poor than for the poor, it is likely that the
poor would be better represented in these structures than the non-poor. (ii)
Subprojects would be limited to a maximum of US$700 per beneficiary. (iii)
Subproject proposals would have to provide evidence that they benefit the poor; and
community productive subprojects would have to specifically target the poor. (iv)
Municipalities with a higher number of poor people would receive proportionally more
resources.
C. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
6.21   The proposed project would be implemented over 5 years and is expected to
be completed in 2001. A detailed cronogram of project activities is included in the
project implementation plan in the project file. These are also summarized in the table



38
of implementation indicators in Annex 10. A detailed operational plan for the first
year of the project is in the project file. To minimize implementation complexity the
project would be developed in three phases, the first phase consisting of further
preparation and the second and third phases consisting of implementation.
6.22  First Phase. The first phase (year 0) is being financed through a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), PHRD Grant and GEF Block B grant and would focus on
capacity building: (i) technical assistance for INIFOM and MARENA including the
establishment of project units; (ii) development of the policy framework for
decentralization and natural resources; (iii) capacity building activities in up to twenty
three municipalities of Le6n and Chinandega; (iv) promotion of the project with
communities, participatory planning on a pilot scale and implementation of two
subprojects per municipality in ten municipalities; (v) training and certification of local
NGOs and consultants to assist municipal governments and communities with the
subproject cycle; (vi) developing municipal environment and land use plans for the
Pacific Region and a regional land use plan and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
for the Atlantic region; and (vii) delineating the ABC in the Atlantic and complete
preparation of the GEF component.
6.23  Second Phase. The second phase would last about two years (years I and 2)
and would continue the capacity building activities and initiate the investment program
in the twenty three municipalities of Le6n and Chinandega in the Pacific region and
provide technical assistance for the nine municipalities of the Departments of San
Carlos and RAAS in the Atlantic already identified (see Maps).
6.24  Third Phase. During the third phase (years 3 through 5), which would start
after the second year review, the project would continue in Leon and Chinandega and
in the nine municipalities of the southeast and would be extended to any new candidate
municipalities mutually agreed to by the GON and IDA, in particular those of RAAS
and RAAN in the Atlantic. The biodiversity protection activities in the Atlantic, which
are expected to be financed by the GEF grant, would also start in the second phase.
Although a large area, the Atlantic is sparsely populated and thus the proportion of
project funds, other than those assigned to biodiversity protection, channeled to the
Atlantic would be rather small. No subproject would be financed in the Atlantic
region until agreement providing for the financing of the GEF component is effective
and IDA has approved an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for the Atlantic
region (see conditions of disbursements in paragraph 8.6).
D. PROCUREMENT
6.25  IDA would finance civil works, goods including machinery and vehicles,
technical assistance, consultants and studies, training, grants for subprojects and
incremental operating costs on a declining basis. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 2. MARENA and INIFOM would carry out procurement for
their own institutional strengthening sub-components. During preparation MARENA



39
has been procuring satisfactorily under a Japanese Grant. MARENA and INIFOM
have managed numerous donor projects and MARENA is currently initiating
implementation of an IDB project. Although both institutions already have some skills
on procurement, these would be fuirther enhanced by having staff in both institutions
undergo IDA sponsored procurement training courses. INIFOM would be responsible
for all procurement carried out under subprojects financed by the $23.4 million grant
facility. In most cases, this responsibility for procurement implementation would be
transferred to the individual Municipal Technical Units (MTUs) under the INIFOM-
Municipality Implementation Agreements described below (para. 6.39) which would
specify that procurement would be according to the relevant Bank Guidelines, and as
detailed in the Operational Manual for the project. Staff of Municipal Technical Units
would also receive procurement skills as part of their training.
Table 2. Procurement Arrangements (USS'000)
Procurement Method
NCB        Other a/   N.B.F.   Total
A. Civil Works                           -           0.2       -        0.2
-         (0.2)      -      (0.2)
B. Goods including vehicles            0.1            1.1      -        1.3
(0. 1)       (1.2)       -      (1.2)
D. TA, Consultants and Studies           -           5.6       -        5.6
(5.6)      -      (5.6)
E. Training                              -            1.3      -        1.3
(1.3)             (1.3)
F. Works, Goods and Technical          0.6          22.4       -       23.0
Assistance for Sub-projects
(0.4)       (16.4)       -     (16.8)
G. Incremental recurrent costs           -             -       -        7.5
-  -  -  (3.4)
H. PPF                                   -             -       -        1.5
-            -       -       (1.5)
Total                                    0.8       31.4 b/      -       40.4
(0.6)       (25.1)       -     (30.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
a/ Includes consultant services, international and national shopping and Limited
International Bidding for computer and vehicles
b/ Excludes incremental recurrent costs and procurement under PPF
6.26 Goods and Works other than for Subprojects. IDA's Procurement
Guidelines (January 1996) will govern the procurement of goods and works financed



40
under the project. No ICB is expected under the project. Small works for the
rehabilitation of the offices of INIFOM, MARENA and municipalities are estimated to
cost US$242,000, and may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified domestic contractors.
Vehicles and computer equipment will be procured through LIB among suppliers with
established maintenance and service in Nicaragua. Contracts for goods (other than
vehicles and computers) would be procured under NCB. Standard bidding documents
(SBDs) issued by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank would be used for all
NCB under the project. Goods estimated to costs less than US$50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$70,000 equivalent, of which
the aggregate of goods other than vehicles should not exceed US$40,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures. Contracts for goods valued below US$25,000 up to an aggregate amount
of US$200,000 (US$100,000 for TNIFOM and US$100,000 for MARENA) would be
procured through national shopping based on price quotations from at least three
bidders.
6.27  Goods, Works and Technical Assistance for Subprojects. The average size
of a subproject is expected to be US$10,000. Few subprojects are expected to exceed
US$50,000. Around 500 subprojects (15 per municipality) would be implemented
each year. Each community would receive about one to two subprojects during the
project's five years. Approximately, 30% of these subprojects will require small civil
works, 30% technical assistance and 40% materials and equipment. Where
communities lack the capacity to make the necessary purchases of materials or do not
wish to do so, or for subprojects of municipalities, municipalities would make
purchases packaging the procurement for several projects whenever possible.
6.28  Procurement for works and goods for subprojects would follow: (1) National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) for goods and works over US$25,000; (2) National
Shopping procedures for contracts of goods below US$25,000 up to an aggregate
amount of US$22 million equivalent; (3) lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations from at least three qualified domestic contractors, for small
works estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount
of US$22 million equivalent; and (4) direct contracting for small works in distant or
scattered rural areas and where competitive proposals cannot be obtained for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$10,000 per subproject, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1 million. Where municipalities are very weak and in the process of being
strengthened the management of procurement activities would be contracted out to a
stronger neighboring municipality, to a private firm or NGO or would be managed by
the Regional Delegation of INIFOM.
6.29  Direct technical assistance to rural communities on all aspects of community
organization and management, training for project operation and maintenance, and
technical assistance for on-farm and off-farm productive activities of the rural poor
would be treated as subprojects. A roster of eligible technical assistance providers



41
would be maintained in INIFOM and in each Municipal Technical Unit. This roster
would be built with assistance from specialized GON agencies and private consultants
and NGOs covering different areas of expertise under criteria acceptable to IDA. It
would include both graduates from the training programs and other eligible
professionals selected on the basis of CV analysis, legal status, past project related
experience and interviews. The community and/or municipality would select a
consultant from this roster, which would be updated quarterly. The Municipal
Technical Units would assist communities with the procedures for selecting local
consultants and/or NGOs.
6.30  Technical assistance, consultants, training and studies would be carried out
according to the Guidelines for the use of Consultants By World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Technical assistance,
consultants, training and studies under the project would amount to US$ 6.8 million
equivalent excluding those to be provided as separate sub-projects. Consulting
services would consist of: (1) small consultant assignments for individuals and firms
providing direct technical assistance to MARENA, INIFOM and municipalities; and
(2) larger tasks for: (a) recruitment and training of MTUs and assistance to
municipalities with accounting and financial controls and monitoring and evaluation
systems; (b) promotion of project, establishment of community participatory
structures and participatory planning; (c) training and certification of NGOs and
professionals; (d) the inter-institutional assistance program; (e) strengthening of the
Directorate of Planning of MARENA; and (f) environment and land use planning and
monitoring. For small tasks MARENA, INIFOM and municipalities would recruit
individual consultants from a short list of at least three candidates for each post. A
sample letter of invitation, award criteria and a sample contract, all acceptable to IDA,
would be included in the Draft Operational Manual. For technical assistance at the
municipal level in the fields of - inter alia - community organization and management,
subproject preparation, and maintenance for on-farm and off-farrm activities of the
rural poor, INIFOM would: (1) on the basis of minimum criteria acceptable to IDA,
establish a roster of organizations with appropriate capabilities; (2) select at least
three organizations included in the roster to be invited to present technical and
financial proposals for the services; and (3) award contracts on the basis of criteria
acceptable to IDA.
6.31  Prior and Post Review Procedures. Although the level of IDA prior review
of procurement would be low (25%), it would be compensated in several ways. First,
the project physical performance evaluation would analyze procurement issues.
Second, financial audits would include procurement aspects. Third, INIFOM's
Regional Delegations would assign a procurement coordinator in charge of helping
communities and municipalities conform to procurement rules. Fourth, both
MARENA and INIFOM and the MTUs would receive training on procurement. And
finally, during IDA supervision, random reviews would be conducted of subprojects,
including field visits and review of subproject documents.



42
6.32 IDA would conduct a prior review of: (1) all LIB contracts; (2) the first two
NCB contracts for goods and works (other than for subprojects); (3) the first contract
each for goods and works for Subprojects procured under NCB; and (4) consultant
selection documentation (terms of reference, short lists, contract, etc.) for consultants
recruited by INIFOM and MARENA with an estimated contract amount of
US$100,000 or more for firms and US$30,000 or more for individuals; (5) terms of
reference for all other consulting services contracts; and (6) all contracts based on a
single source contracting or of a critical nature.
6.33   During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government of
Nicaragua that the above procurement arrangements would be followed.
Table 3. Procurement Prior Review Thresholds
Category                 Type of Procurement           Prior          Contract Value
Review
___________________                             ~~~~~~~~Lim it
Civil Works               Direct contracting under subprojects  None      <USS 10,000
NCB under subprojects             First one    >US$ 25,000
Three quotations (lump-sum)       None          <USS 25,000 and offices
Goods                     LIB for vehicles and computers    All           > USS 150,000
NCB other than for subprojects    First two    >US$ 25,000
NCB for subprojects               First one    >US$ 25,000
Intemational shopping             None         <USS 50,000
National shopping including subprojects  None   <US$ 25,000
Consulting Services       Local and foreign consulting firms  All         > USS I00,000
by Firns
Consulting Services       Local and foreign consulting individuals  All   > US$30,000
by Individuals
6.34 Post-review would be carried out for other procurement by implementing
agencies (INIFOM and MARENA) and municipalities. For this purpose, both
MARENA and INIFOM would recruit auditors, under terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA, who would not only examine financial implementation, but also procurement
procedures, physical implementation and impact on beneficiaries. These auditors
would carry out annual audits on the basis of a sample not lower than 60 percent of
the IDA financed investments in the first project year, 50 percent in the second project
year and 40 percent in later years. For convenience and to avoid overlaps, the same
auditors would carry out an ex-post review of the expenditures and investments
financed by IDA.
E. DISBURSEMENTS
6.35   The project has a 5-year disbursement period and the Closing Date would be
March 31, 2002. (The associated ABC project would have also a 5-year
disbursement period and the Closing Date would be March 31, 2003). Agreed project
activities begun after February 28, 1996 and would be eligible for retroactive financing



43
up to a maximum of USSDR694,000. The estimated disbursement schedule has been
determined by the estimated availability of counterpart funding (see Table in Annex 7,
page 13), and the implementation capacity of the implementing agencies.
6.36  The Credit would be disbursed against eligible project expenditures at the rates
of: (i) 85% for civil works; (ii) 100% for foreign supplied and 80% of locally supplied
or manufactured machinery, equipment, vehicles, and furniture; (iii) 100% for
consultant services, training and studies; (iv) 100% of the amount of the grants for
subprojects (excluding all taxes); and (v) incremental recurrent costs on a declining
basis (80% first two years, 60% third and fourth years and 40% thereafter; see Table
in Annex 7, page 12). A PPF advance of SDR 1,050,000 has been approved and it
will be refinanced upon credit effectiveness.
6.37  Documentation of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made on the basis
of full documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review
by IDA and amendments to contracts for consultant services raising the value of such
contracts above the prior review limits. These contracts are: (i) all LIB contracts for
vehicles; (ii) the first two NCB contracts for goods; and (iii) consultant services
contracts directly procured by MARENA and INIFOM with an estimated contract
amount of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$30,000 or more for individuals. For
all other contracts and expenditures, including training expenditures (tuition, travel
subsistence), disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE)
for which supporting documents would be maintained by MARENA, INIFOM and
Municipal Technical Units and would be available to external auditors and to IDA for
staff review.
6.38  Special Accounts. Two Special Accounts in US dollars would be opened in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Special Account A would be managed by
INIFOM and Special Account B would be managed by MARENA. The initial
deposits in the SA-A will be US$1.7 million and in Special Account B US$400,000
corresponding to about four months of expenditures under the project for each
agency. An initial deposit of up to US$1,000,000 for SA-A and US$200,000 for SA-
B may be requested. Once disbursements have reached SDR2,776,000 for SA-A and
SDR694,000 for SA-B, the balance of the authorized allocation can be requested up to
the authorized limit. The SAs would be replenished monthly on the Borrower's
request (but no less frequently than every three months), or whenever one third of the
authorized amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs first.
6.39 Flow of Funds to Municipalities. IDA Credit funds would be transferred by
INIFOM on behalf of the Government to municipalities for the financing of
subprojects under INIFOM-Municipality Implementation Agreements to be entered
into. Each municipality would open a bank account. INIFOM would transfer funds
(the grants) monthly from the Special Account "A" to each municipality account
under the provisions of the implementation agreements and based on the financial plan
included in the INIFOM-Municipality Agreement reflecting the investment plan



44
approved by the municipality and agreed to by INIFOM. Initial deposits equal to 20
percent of financial requirements would follow immediately after approval of MIPs
and signing of the agreements to enable municipalities and beneficiaries to cover
project preparation costs. Payments from each municipal account to contractors
would be made on the basis of payment authorizations signed by the mayor and the
MTU (local project coordinator). Funds required for central procurement would be
retained by INIFOM in its Special Account. When municipalities would transfer funds
to beneficiaries legally established, communities, NGOs, etc., for communal productive
activities, INIFOM-Municipality-beneficiary agreements would be signed namely for
transfer of ownership and subsequent maintenance of the goods and works financed.
6.40  Documentation. INIFOM and MARENA would be responsible for
submitting regular replenishment requests with appropriate supporting documents for
expenditures under the project. The documents would include: (i) a standard
withdrawal application (Form 1903) for the total amount of eligible project
expenditures (but not the amount advanced to municipalities) to be replenished into
INIFOM's Special Account with a copy of the monthly bank statement for that
account; (ii) SOE form which will provide the summary of category expenditures
(INIFOM and MARENA) including grants for subprojects (INIFOM); (iii) standard
summary sheets (designed for each subproject and included in the disbursement letter)
and supporting documentation for all expenditures above the procurement prior
review thresholds; and (iv) a reconciliation statement for the special account. The use
of grants by municipalities and communities would be monitored through auditing
procedures, the monitoring systems and project and sub-project supervision
arrangements.
F.  FINANCIAL CONTROLS, AccouNTs AND AUDITNG
6.41  Financial Management Capacity. A diagnostic by professional accountants
of the financial capacity of the two implementing agencies (INIFOM and MARENA)
and of the thirty-two municipalities expected to participate in the project showed that
only MARENA, INIFOM and the two largest municipalities would be able to meet
IDA's recommended project accounting procedures. While all municipalities had a
basic cash accounting system that adequately recorded income and expenditure,
primary deficiencies found were: (i) lack of financial information on programs/projects
and no records of municipal assets; (ii) weaknesses in internal control; and (iii) lack
of adequately trained staff. INIFOM also had weak areas, particularly in internal
control, which are being addressed by the Comptroller's Office as part of the
Institutional Restructuring Agreement supported by the Institutional Development
Credit.
6.42 Technical assistance will be provided to each municipality to help implement
new accounting systems and procedures. INIFOM will also prepare revised standard
accounting procedures for municipalities in coordination with the Ministry of Finance
which is implementing the Institutional Development Credit. During project



45
implementation, additional assistance will be provided to weaker municipalities to
further strengthen financial management, particularly in the areas of budgeting and
cash management, so they can effectively manage the increased fiscal transfers
expected by the end of the project period.
6.43   Project Financial Statements and Financial Reporting. Project financial
statements to be prepared by each participating municipality would include a statement
of sources and uses of funds, and a register of project assets or balance sheet where
appropriate. The funds flow statement would indicate sources (IDA, as well as
counterpart) and expenditures in accordance with main project components and
disbursement categories. Where municipalities have multiple subprojects, data would
be shown separately for each subproject to facilitate project monitoring and
preparation of project monitoring indicators. Project financial statements would show
actual and pending payments against budgeted. Information on sources and uses of
funds would be provided monthly. Information reported would also include the value
of contracts signed, i.e. commitments, relative to actual and pending payments.
6.44 The implementing agencies (INIFOM and MARENA) would maintain separate
records and accounts for project expenditures as well as a register of assets purchased
with project funds. They would also have the responsibility for preparing the project's
financial statements, including sources and uses of funds statements, according to
internationally accepted accounting standards. INIFOM would include balance sheets
in the financial statements. MARENA and INIFOM would also receive technical
assistance to help establish accounting procedures acceptable to IDA. INIFOM
would prepare financial statements for its own managed funds as well as consolidated
project financial statements based on the project financial statements submitted by each
municipality.
6.45   Auditing. A process for selection of auditors and the auditor's TOR were
agreed with INIFOM and MARENA during appraisal. The selection process includes
pre-qualifying audit firms, contracting auditors for one year with a provision to extend
for a further two years based on satisfactory performance, and initiating the process
for selection of auditors during project preparation with the objective of having
auditors in place by the start of loan disbursements. Both INIFOM and MARENA
would contract audit firms to audit the consolidated financial statements for the
components of the project.
6.46  The auditors report would include audits of the special account, an opinion on
the use of statement of expenditures (SOEs), confirmation that project
implementation was in accordance with provisions of the legal agreement and
verification of procurement transactions. The auditor's TORs also include a review of
internal controls and preparation of a management letter. Audit reports would be
submitted to IDA up to within six months of the close of the fiscal year. The first
audit reports would cover the first year's disbursement as well as disbursements under
the Japanese grant under separate TORs. Most project funds are expected to be



46
disbursed for a large number of small subprojects averaging about US$10,000 in at
least 32 municipalities, some of difficult access. It is expected that the external
auditors to a large extent will base their work on that of the internal auditors and will
exercise good judgment in selecting municipalities for direct audit to reduce the cost of
the audit.
6.47 Technical audits would be carried out separately. Technical audits would
consist of simple checks of subprojects ensuring that what is purchased is in fact there
and would exclude any assessment of whether resources were used efficiently or
appropriately or any technical issues.
G. SUPERVISION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
6.48  Supervision. Day-to-day supervision of the project would be carried out by
MARENA and INIFOM. IDA and GON would monitor the project's overall progress
during joint supervision missions, annual reviews and an Implementation Completion
Review.
6.49 Because of the large number of sub-projects which would be financed under
the Rural Municipalities Development Component, the demands for close supervision
would be high, and the financing plan includes resources for INIFOM to enable it to
meet them. There would be three supervision mechanisms for activities carried out by
municipal governments including subprojects: (i) by beneficiaries: the Community
Supervision Committee (CSC) would supervise implementation of municipal plans
and agreed projects and issue execution reports for INIFOM and the Intercommunity
Assembly; (ii) by municipalities: the Municipal Technical Units would supervise
subprojects executed by contractors and/or communities while Project User Groups
would supervise contractors implementing sub-projects on behalf of communities; and
(iii) by INIFOM: the Regional Delegation of INIFOM would also supervise
municipality and beneficiary compliance with terms of agreements with INIFOM and
municipal plans and subproject implementation.
6.50 Monitoring. Both MARENA and INIFOM would monitor overall project
progress and provide quarterly reports (March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31) to the Minister of Finance, CONAGRO and IDA. An outline for
quarterly reports is included in Annex 10. Progress would be measured against the
implementation indicators included in Tables A10. 1 to Al0.6 and Figure 10.1, Annex
10. The reports would be furnished to IDA no more than one month after the
completion of each quarter.
6.51  Project Launch Workshops. Upon project effectiveness, GON would
organize four project launch workshops targeted at: (i) MARENA and INIFOM; (ii)
Municipalities; (iii) Community leaders and local NGO representatives; and (iv) other
GON agencies supporting the project. Details are given in Annex 11.



47
6.52 Regular Supervision. Several times a year GON and IDA would organize
joint project supervision missions. Project supervision would provide implementation
assistance. Before each mission, GON and IDA would agree on the major subjects to
be supervised, which would always include an evaluation of the project's progress
based on the monitoring indicators, compliance with legal covenants, and procurement
and financial management supervision. Immediately after each mission, IDA would
send an Aide Memoire to GON which would contain the major agreements reached
during the mission and recommendations. Annex 11 provides more details on
supervision.
6.53 Annual Reviews. Each year, GON and IDA would carry out annual reviews.
Before such a review would take place GON and IDA would agree on detailed TORs
and staffing of the review teams. In particular the reviews would analyze: (i) status of
community participation and the role of municipalities in promoting it; (ii) status of
technical assistance and training program for municipal governments; (iii) status of
municipal planning; (iv) status of training of consultants and local availability of
trained consultants; (v) functioning of all aspects of the subproject cycle; (vi) status
of environmental planning and monitoring system; (vii) advances in the legal
proposals; (viii) status of the interinstitutional training program; (ix) status of
preparation and implementation when enacted of mechanism of fiscal transfers to local
governments; and (x) procurement, disbursements and financial aspects. Annual
reviews would also analyze the status of development and implementation of (i) the
legal framework for decentralization and natural resources; (ii) the Atlantic
Biodiversity Corridor strategy (see Annex 4 and para. 3.9 and 3.11); and (iii) the legal
framework to ensure the effective application of the rights of indigenous peoples as
expressed in the Constitution and Autonomy Law of 1987. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that these annual reviews would be carried out and that
GON would take remedial measures.
6.54  Implementation Completion Report. Not later than six months after the
project closing date, GON and IDA would carry out a joint project completion review
and produce an Implementation Review Report. Following this review, GON would
present to IDA a plan for the future operation of the project, furnish the plan to IDA
for comments, and carry out the plan taking into account IDA's comments thereon.
7. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  SOCIAL IPACT
7.1   Target Population. The project is designed with the capacity to reach, directly
or indirectly, the rural population of the 32 selected municipalities. This coverage
would expand in the second phase with the inclusion of additional areas. The rural
population of the 32 municipalities was estimated in 1993 to be about 477,000. Of



48
these, it is expected that the direct beneficiaries would be around 300,000 people, or
around 50,000 families, mainly small farmers and fishermen. Project investments per
capita per year considering the entire population of the 32 municipalities would
amount to about US$5. This level of expenditure is comparable to that seen in similar
Bank projects in Mexico -- about US$8 per capita per year -- and Colombia -- about
US$6 per year for equivalent definitions of target populations. Since the project
would establish a new system for financing and implementing sub-projects at the
municipal level, it is expected that in the longer term a much larger number of people
would benefit directly as further financing, namely from the proposed fiscal transfers
legislation, enters the system.
7.2   The rural poor. Some 40,000 households, over 70% of the region's rural
population, are below the poverty line. More than 60% are small farmers. On average
it would be necessary to invest between US$ 750 and US$ 4,000 per family to
increase a small farm income enough to pull the household out of poverty. The
expected US$6.7 million of productive subprojects would thus allow between 1,600
and 10,000 of such families to become non-poor (25% of the region's rural poor if the
higher figure is achieved). Comparatively, in 1993 only 720 poor farmers in the region
received some kind of assistance (averaging US$560). The proposed project would
increase the number of beneficiaries between 2.5 and 13 times. The rural poor would
also benefit from the non-productive subprojects: environment, public infrastructure
and capacity building (see Annex 12 for details).
7.3   Women. Because of the different roles that men and women play in society,
the project would potentially benefit men and women differently (see Annex 3 for a
more detailed discussion of gender aspects). First, although the project supports both
men's and women's organizations, the project would specifically promote women's
involvement in local and municipal governments and this involvement would be
maintained (see performance indicators in Annex 10). Second, the project would
attempt to diminish discrepancies in access to information and resources that typically
exist between men and women. Third, the project would support both men's and
women distinctive productive activities through the municipal funds (these would
include the basic grains produced by both men and women as well as agro-industries
and food processing, fruit and vegetable production, apiculture, spices and medicinal
plants, small livestock, and forest-based artesenal activities in the case of women).
Finally, the project would finance natural resource subprojects according to the
priorities of men, which tend to have both a commercial orientation, and women,
which have a commercial and social focus (for example, domestic water and energy
subprojects). A gender advisor would be placed in INIFOM to ensure that gender
concerns are present during implementation of the municipal development component.
7.4   Indigenous peoples. A Social Assessment for the Sutiaba in Le6n and
Chinandega was produced during preparation of the IDA components while an
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for the Atlantic region is well under



49
preparation.'9 Both the IDA and the proposed GEF components would benefit
indigenous peoples. First, indigenous communities would be able to submit
subproject proposals identified by them to local governments and would participate in
the decisions over local planning and subproject approval through their traditional
representative structures. Second, through subprojects indigenous beneficiary
communities would be eligible for technical assistance (including legal) for community
development including that required for the elaboration of community land titling
proposals. Third, indigenous communities would be the main executors of the
proposed GEF activities where the biodiversity corridor overlaps with their territory
through quid pro quo agreements under which communities would receive
development assistance prioritized by them in exchange for commitments to conserve
biodiversity.
7.5   Institutions. Institutional beneficiaries at the national level would be
MARENA and INJEOM, the legal offices of the Executive Branch, the Legislature,
the Judiciary and enforcing agencies. The increase in their capacity to legislate and to
enforce regulations governing natural resources and the environment would be
indirectly beneficial to all of Nicaraguan society.
7.6    At the municipal level, the most important benefit would be the legacy of
much-improved capacity among local groups and municipal government to identify,
prepare, evaluate and implement subprojects and in particular of much improved
capacity of communities of rural poor to voice their demands and of local governments
to meet them. This would be a valuable long-term asset.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
7.7    The project would contribute to the improved management of biodiversity
forests, soils, water and fisheries. In total it is estimated that in the Pacific 25,000
hectares or 13% of current crop area would benefit from less erosion while 3% of
regional mangrove area would receive direct protection (see Annex 12). Additionally
the project would help protect the high biodiversity of volcanic ecosystems, improve
waterflow controls and help stabilize some watercourses. The GEF Component would
specifically support biodiversity conservation in the Atlantic. Because some of the
subprojects, particularly public infrastructure subprojects, may pose modest
environmental risks, the project is rated as a "B". There are two mechanisms for
screening out risky subprojects (see Annexes 4, 6 and Operational Manual): (i)
subproject approval would have to follow the guidelines detailed in Annexes 4 and 6,
in the Operational Manual and in the background study "Sistema de Procedimientos
19 See background reports in project file: "Social Assessment and Indigenous Development Plan:
Consultation, Participation Strategies and Communication Support", "Evaluaci6n Social de la
Comunidad Sutiaba in Le6n ", " Viabilidady Condiciones Legales de Cumplimiento de un
Componente de Legalizaci6n de Tierra a las Com unidades Indigenas de la Costa Atlantica
Dentro del Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales - IPDP First Report and Final Report.



50
Ambientalespara la Gesti6n AmbientalMunicipat'; and (ii) subprojects would have
to be consistent with priorities and restrictions reflected in the Environment and Land
Use Plans for the Pacific and Atlantic and with the ABC strategy. Additionally no
disbursements for subprojects would take place until the ABC component (GEF) is
declared effective, and until an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for the Atlantic
is approved by IDA.
C. ECONOMIC AND FISCAL IMPACTS
7.8   Economic Efficiency. There are three dimensions of economic impacts from
the proposed project: (i) from decentralization; (ii) from natural resource and
environmental policy reform; and (iii) from subprojects.
7.9   The expected economic impacts from decentralization are primarily three: (i)
reduction in the costs of delivering public services relative to the costs of these
services if they were managed centrally; (ii) a better optimum (more efficient mix) of
local investments relative to the mix accruing if decisions were taken by a centralized
agency; and (iii) better community structures.
7.10  The expected economic impacts from natural resource and environmental
policy reform are primarily three: (i) economic efficiency gains from eliminating
conflicting regulations on natural resource use; (ii) reduction in the cost of governing
due to increased government credibility from enforcing a clearer set of regulations than
under the without project scenario; and (iii) better internalization of environmental
externalities by the public, private and NGO sectors.
7.11   The expected economic impacts from subprojects are: (i) reduction in the
costs of municipalities and communities in identifying, preparing, implementing and
operating subprojects; (ii) improved decision-making by private farmers and other
rural poor from the capacity building projects; (iii) economic gains from enhanced
environmental protection; and (iv) economic surpluses from economic infrastructure
and higher productivity from on-farm and off-farm economic subsistence activities to
be supported by the project.
7.12  Evaluation of Subprojects. The economic analysis focused only on a subset
of these benefits: the economic impacts of the expected portfolio of environmental,
infrastructure and productive subprojects. These estimates are fraught with
uncertainties and are presented to illustrate orders of magnitude of expected benefits.
Because subprojects are demand driven and it is not known ex-ante what community
and municipality choices would be, two estimates of sub-project demand were
developed by polling municipal governrments, NGOs and beneficiaries directly. These
estimates are summarized in Annexes 2 and 3.
7.13   Accounting for only the expected benefits from a selected number of expected
subprojects (municipal investments), but accounting for all the project investment and



51
recurrent costs, yielded a benefit/cost ratio of 1.04, and a net present value of US$2.3
million (10% discount rate, Table 4). Hence, given that unaccounted benefits are
expected to be large, the project is likely to be highly economically viable.
7.14 Evaluation of Decentralization and Natural Resources Policy and
Institutional Reform Benefits. Although the costs and benefits from decentralization
were not quantified, other Bank and IDA projects confirm that decentralization
typically leads to a more efficient portfolio of investments, which are more likely to be
maintained and sustained and implemented, at a lower cost than when these
investments are channeled through centralized structures (see Section 4.D on Lessons
from Past Bank Lending). Because these other non-quantified benefits may be equal
to or more important than subproject benefits, and because quantifying those benefits
would help maintain GONs commitment to the project, a study of all the economic
impacts of the project, including those arising from decentralization and policy and
institutional reform would be conducted during the first year of the project.
Table 4. A Summary of the Project's Potential Economic Benefits (US$ million)
Project component/activity  Loan Base    Present value  Present value  Benefit/cost
Cost         of investment  of benefits    ratio
and operating
______________________________ ______________ costs
Municipality investments            23.5         45.2          64.0           1.4
Environment                         6.0          4.3           7.7           1.8
Infrastructure                      6.9          9.7          13.2           1.4
Productive                         6.9          27.8          43.1           1.6
Capacity building                  3.7           3.4           n.a          n.a
Other project investments           16.9         16.5           n.a           n.a
Total                      |        40.4 |        61.7         64.0          1.04
Notes: PV Present value over a 20 year period at a 10% discount rate; n.a.: no estimation available; numbers
are rounded. Source: All figures are based on the discussion in Annex 12.
7.15   Public Sector Role. There is also the question of whether the financing of
proposed categories of investments is better handled by the local public sector or by
the private sector (all would be executed by the private sector). For the subproject
categories of environment, public infrastructure and capacity building the rationale for
public sector involvement is clear since these entail substantial externalities and/or are
public goods. The issue is not as clear cut for collective private projects. The principle
underlying the public financing of collective private investments is that the initial
subsidies can help poor people raise their standards of living above the subsistence
level and help initiate a process of capital accumulation among the rural poor that
ultimately would help pull them out of poverty. If decisions to finance projects of
disadvantaged communities were left to the private sector it would be very unlikely
that the poorest communities would initially be able to attract private financing
(though once the profitability of investments and community management capacity is
demonstrated this may not remain a constraint). Hence public sector support for
collective private projects can be justified as an instrument for poverty alleviation.
There are precedents for this, for example in the Bank projects in Northeast Brazil and



52
in DRD I and II in Mexico which financed similar categories of investments for
disadvantaged communities.
7.16  Fiscal impact. Fiscal impacts refer to the benefits foregone due to the
allocation of counterpart funds for project activities. These are significant only for the
Municipal Development Component. These counterpart funds (US $4.8 million for
GON and municipalities) would be primarilv provided by municipalities from own
revenues or from resources transferred from central government. Municipal co-
financing of subprojects is likely to result in: (i) a smaller percentage of municipal
investments targeted to urban areas (but not necessarily a decline in absolute terms);
(ii) a higher percentage of municipal funds allocated to environment and rural public
infrastructure at the expense of more traditional municipal investments (urban parks,
recreation facilities, urban street asphalting, etc.); and (iii) a decline in local programs
managed centrally (by MAS, INIFOM, Institute of Sports and National Assembly), but
an increase in the efficiency of fiscal resources used in the process. Additional fiscal
resources from GON (US$1.2 million) to support activities being directly implemented
by MARENA and INIFOM would also be needed. These would be justified since (i)
MARENA has already undergone drastic cuts in personnel and needs now to be
strengthened to be able to execute its priority functions in policy-making and
enforcement; and (ii) INIFOM has a key role to play in the short and medium future in
support of the process of fiscal and administrative decentralization.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
7.17  There are four dimensions of sustainability: (i) sustainability of the local
institutional mechanisms, and in particular of whether communities will be able to
continue defining their priorities and causing municipal governments to respond to
them; (ii) sustainability of financial resources for disadvantaged rural municipalities,
which would allow these to meet community demands; (iii) sustainability of
subprojects, that is, their maintenance and replicability; and (iv) sustainability of
mechanisms for intemalizing environment values in public decision-making. There are
also important sustainability issues related to the proposed GEF component.
7.18   Sustainability of local institutional mechanisms --would be promoted by (i)
demonstrating through real experiences and training that both communities and local
government officials and politicians gain from the adoption of participatory methods;
communities gain a better portfolio of projects and local politicians gain a more
satisfied electorate; (ii) making resources available to disadvantaged municipalities
both through the project and through the proposed fiscal transfers legislation to make
it worthwhile for communities to organize themselves in order to cause local
governments to channel those resources to meet community priorities; (iii) making full
information about the project available to communities through project promotion; and
(iv) providing initial support to community and municipality decision mechanisms
(Intercommunity Assembly and Community Supervision Committee) that have low
operational costs and thus are likely to be maintained once their usefulness is proven.



53
7.19  Sustainability of rinancial resources for disadvantaged municipalities--
would be secured through: (i) the proposed fiscal transfers legislation which, in a
budget neutral manner, would, if enacted, put in place a financing mechanism for local
governments equivalent to at least 4% of the GON revenues and which would be
transferred as block grants to those municipalities with greatest need according to the
formula similar to the one discussed in Annex 4; and (ii) technical assistance through
the project to disadvantaged municipalities on local resource mobilization.
7.20 Sustainability of community and municipality investments -- maintenance
and replicability -- would be met through five mechanisms: (i) the proposed fiscal
transfers from the central govermnent would, if enacted, put more resources at the
disposal of municipal governments which could be used to meet recurrent and
operational costs; (ii) the participatory process would ensure that those projects of
highest priority to communities would be financed and these communities would thus
have an interest in ensuring subproject sustainability; (iii) an acceptable operational and
maintenance plan, including definition of responsibilities for these activities, would be
a criteria for subproject approval; (iv) the project would support training to municipal
governments, communities and professionals on subproject operation and maintenance
and cost recovery mechanisms; and (v) in the particular case of productive
subprojects, cost recovery into beneficiary (association, cooperative, legally
established community) managed funds would be promoted as a means to generate
financial resources to replicate the subproject and to reach the largest number of
beneficiaries within a community.
7.21   Sustainability of mechanisms for internalizing environmental values in
public decision-making -- would be ensured through: (i) an active training program
including training of trainers and curricula development on environmental policies
targeted at key institutions with responsibilities over environment policy; (ii)
strengthening the monitoring and watchdog function of MARENA over other GON
agencies and regional and local governments; and (iii) streamlining of MARENA
through the Institutional Restructuring Agreement to be supported by the Institutional
Development Credit.
7.22  Sustainability of conservation activities (GEF) in the Atlantic -- would be
secured through (i) a financial mechanism currently being designed that would raise
additional resources from donors and local sources and would finance the recurrent
costs of conservation activities in the Atlantic and investment subprojects beyond the
closing date of the GEF component; and (ii) information and training for indigenous
and non-indigenous conmnunities and demarcation of territories of indigenous
communities which have a stake in ensuring the sustainability of natural resources in
the Atlantic region.



54
E. RISKS
7.23  There are five main risks in the implementation of the project, as follows:
7.24 The first relates to project complexity and to the capacity of INIFOM and
MARENA to implement the components under their responsibility. This risk would be
addressed by (i) establishing fully staffed Component Implementation Units in each
institution that would manage the INIFOM component and the MARENA
components, respectively, as two separate, but interlinked projects; (ii) processing the
GEF component as an associated, but separate operation with different timing,
documentation, legal agreements and supervision; (iii) grouping most technical
assistance activities in six technical assistance contracts, three to be managed by
INIFOM and another three by MARENA; (iv) phasing in project activities focusing
the first phase on capacity building, the second phase on preliminary investments and
the third phase on expanding the investment program and initiating activities under the
GEF component.
7.25  The second relates to the capacity of municipalities and beneficiaries to
generate high quality rural subproject proposals and implement them satisfactorily
without leakage of funds. These issues and how the project would deal with them are
detailed in Annex 4. This risk would be addressed as follows: (i) as a condition of
municipal participation, local governments would establish a Municipal Technical Unit
with at least two staff with expertise on participation and the subproject cycle and who
would undergo training and receive technical assistance; (ii) all municipalities would
establish project accounts following IDA standards, the project would provide
technical assistance for improving overall municipal financial controls as per agreed
indicators, and the component intemal auditor in INFOM would systematically carry
out audits of INIFOM and municipalities; (iii) the project would invest heavily in
training local professionals (local private consultants, NGOs and local government and
GON staff) in all aspects of the subproject cycle; these professionals would be the
main vehicle for ensuring the quality of subprojects; (iv) specialized line agencies
would be requested to issue a technical opinion for subprojects greater than
US$50,000; (v) both external and internal audits assisted by a social supervision
mechanism through the communities are included in project design; and (vi)
municipalities that misuse project funds would be penalized according to agreed
procedures (para. 6.17).
7.26  The third risk is that the government might weaken its efforts to reform natural
resource and indigenous peoples policies and develop and implement a coherent
decentralization strategy. Some GON agencies in particular may feel threatened by
decentralization. An associated risk is that the legislation on fiscal decentralization
would not be approved. This risk would not impact the project directly but would
make it less likely that it would be sustainable. These risks cannot be mitigated totally,
but efforts would be made under the project to carry out analytical studies of the costs



55
and benefits of reform and decentralization and to conduct study tours to similar
projects in LAC to show GON the economic benefits from these strategies.
7.27 The fourth risk, also related to government commitment, concerns the level of
priority assigned to this project and the consequent security of counterpart funds. All
current evidence suggests a strong political commitment on account of: (i) the urgency
of rural poverty alleviation; (ii) the immediacy of the combatant and refugee
resettlement problem; (iii) the growing pressure from many sources to reverse the
process of resource degradation; (iv) political pressure from local governments which
have been able to push the reform agenda in their direction, for example in the recent
reform to the Constitution; and (v) the advances in proposing legislation on fiscal
decentralization. Moreover, the level of counterpart funding is covenanted in the
project's legal agreement.
7.28  Finally, there is a possible risk of competition with other donor agencies, due
to the rather poor record of donor co-ordination. As far as can be ascertained, the
proposed project would be complementary to other donor efforts. Moreover, this risk
has been minimized through consultations with GON, donor agencies and the IDB,
and IDA supervision missions would continue placing a high priority on coordination
with other agencies active in the natural resources and rural development field and in
decentralization.
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1   Assurances obtained at negotiations:
(1) The Municipal Development Component would be carried out in
accordance with an Operational Manual satisfactory to IDA.
(2) Procurement arrangements would be as described in Section 6D of the
SAR.
(3) Reporting arrangements would be as described in Annex 10 of the
SAR.
(4) Accounting and auditing arrangements would be as described in Section
6F of the SAR.
(5) Government would through its annual budget provide for counterpart
funding of project agencies, as indicated in the project's financing plan.
(6) The monitoring indicators detailed in Annex 10 would be adopted.



56
(7) Annual reviews.
(8) INIFOM and MARENA would maintain Implementation Units with
responsibilities and staff qualifications and expertise acceptable to IDA.
8.2   Conditions of Board presentation:
There are no special conditions of Board presentation proposed.
8.3   Conditions of effectiveness:
There are no special conditions of effectiveness proposed.
8.4   Conditions of disbursements for the Rural Municipalities Development
Component:
(1) Signing of MIFIN/INIFOM subsidiary agreement.
(2) Adoption by INIFOM of a Project Operational Manual acceptable to IDA.
(3) Appointment of a Component Implementation Coordinator in INIFOM
acceptable to IDA.
(4) Disbursements for grants for subprojects would only take place for (i)
those municipalities that have signed (i) INIFOM/Municipality Eligibility
and Financing Agreement; (ii) Municipality Implementation Agreements;
and (iii) for productive subprojects, beneficiary grant agreements.
(5) No disbursements for grants for subprojects in RAAS and RAAN would
take place until the GEF component is declared effective and an Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan, acceptable to IDA, has been furnished.
(6) No disbursements for subprojects of more than US$50,000 would take
place until agreements for the technical review and evaluation of
subprojects between INIFOM and the relevant line agency have been
signed.
(7) No disbursements for activities supporting the Executive Committee for
Public Sector Reform (CERAP) until an fNIFOMICERAP Agreement has
been signed.
8.5   Conditions of disbursements for Natural Resources Policies and Institutions
Component:



57
(1) Appointment of an Implementation Coordinator in MARENA acceptable
to IDA.
Recommendation
8.6   Based on the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR
20.9 million (US$30 million equivalent) to the Republic of Nicaragua, with a 40 year
maturity, including 10 years of grace on standard IDA terms.






NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 1
BACKGROUND: THE POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL CONTEXT FOR
DECENTRALIZATION "
1. RATIONALE FOR DECENTRALIZATION
Rationale for Decentralization. Decentralization of decision-making and
responsibility to the local level is considered an imnportant element in improving rural
development programs and natural resource management; a perception shared by
government, NGOs and foreign donors. This derives from the extreme weakness in the
mechanisms which exist to ensure that public investments are efficient and consistent with
rural development and natural resource management potentials at the local level. Where
contemplated, municipal-level priorities and opportunities have been limited to diagnostics
and consultations usually carried out by central GON agencies or outside programs rather
than through ongoing dialogue and shared responsibility. Thus, the distribution of
resources and investment activities heavily reflect central government priorities.'2 In
contrast, the principle underlying decentralization is that national priorities be satisfied
through incentives and broad thematic and zonal targeting of investmnent resources and
local mechanisms be preferred for their specific disposition. Local governments are closer
to the people and problems that result from poverty and often also from resource
degradation and hence internalize those costs better and more rationally prioritize the use
of scarce investment resources. In the limited instances where "local choice" mechanisms
have been functioning in Nicaragua the results are generally positive. The GTZ/INIFOM
Proyecto de Fortalacimiento de la Autonomia Municipal (FAMU) is one exarnple, and
the SIDA/INIFOM development programs for infrastructure and community works in
pern-urban poverty zones is another.!3- There is also an expanding body of evidence
elsewhere on the advantages of decentralized rural development solutions, several of which
are being supported by the World Bank in LAC, for example in Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia
and Mexico.
I/    For a more complete treatment of the subject, see Project Working Papers: (3)
"Capacidad de Las Municipalidades "; (4) "Capacidad de Las Organizaciones No
Gubernamentales "; (25) "Fondos Municipales Para El Manejo y Conservacidn de Los Recursos
Naturales"; (16) "Programa de Generaci6n y Transferencia de Tecnologia Para el Manejo
Sostenible de Recursos Naturales"; (28) "Reglamento Interno - Proyecto PROTIERRA; (18)
"Demanda de Microproyectos "; 'Asignaci6n de Recursos Para Inversirn Municipales",
'Municipal Funds", 'Municipal Finances and Decentralization"
2'    Implementation capacity, in terms of NGO and government's human resources also
shows a "lumpy" distribution in response to donor financing. (Abaunza, B.M., 1993. Las
Organizaciones No Gubernamentales En La Generaci6n y Transferencia de Tecnologia, pg. 12).
3'     The immaturity of existing examples makes impossible useful comparisons of the
efficiency of centralized vs decentralized models in Nicaragua, however, neither is it clear that
such analysis will be pertinent. Given that macroeconomic and public sector restructuring
policies demand a diminished role for central government the creation, implementation and
strengthening of decentralized mechanisms is unavoidable.



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 2 of 17
2. THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Local Government. The legal framework of municipal governments is
included in the Constitution, the Electoral Law, the Municipal Law, the Law of Political
Administrative Division and the regulations on the Organization and Operation of
Municipalities, approved by executive decree. The foundation for local government has
been until now the Municipal Law of 1988 (Ley de Municipios - Ley No. 40). This law
authorizes local government to provide services and exercise administrative authority over:
(1) environmental protection; (2) regulation of urban development and land use; (3) solid
waste management; (4) reforestation; (5) oversight of natural resource use and protection;
and (6) creation of mechanisms for popular participation in local decision-making. Several
larger and/or better funded municipal governments (e.g., Leon, Chinandega, El Castillo)
have begun to exercise these powers through the establishment of municipal environmental
offices, employing technical specialists, and creating environmental and natural resource
advisory committees. In a number of foreign donor-assisted projects as well, municipal
governments are beginning to function in their expanded roles.'4
The 1995 Partial Reform of the Constitution (Reforma Parcial de la
Constituci6n) brought important implications for local government. Key aspects of the
constitutional reform include: (1) regions were eliminated as administrative units with the
exception of the RAAS and RAAN; (2) municipal govermments were given broad
responsibilities over socio-economic (rural and urban) development within municipalities;
(3) municipal governments must now be consulted regarding natural resource use contracts
in their jurisdictions; (4) mayor, vice-mayor and councilors will all be elected directly for
a period of four years; and most importantly (5) a percentage of the national budget will be
fiscally transferred to those municipalities with lower resource mobilization potential.
Following the constitutional reform a new Municipal Law has been drafted that
would, inter alia, (1) regulate the election process; (2) more clearly define competencies
between municipal and central goverrnments; (3) commit the GON to transfer a percentage
of the national public budget to local governments according to pre-established ceilings.
IDA has kept an active dialogue with the GON on the decentralization process in the
context of the Institutional Development Credit and the preparation activities for the
proposed project. IDA has financed technical assistance on decentralization and local
public finance issues (see list of reports in project file in Annex 13).
3. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
Sectoral Decentralization Commission. The GON recently created the
Sectoral Decentralization Commission (SDC -- Comision Sectorial de Descentralizaci6n,
4'    Examples of both ongoing and proposed projects include: Brigadas Ecologicas
Municipales and PROSDEL (ASDI); PROTMAREN (DANIDA); Modernizaci6n de Sistemas de
Producci6n Integral Municipal (EU); Desarrollo Rural Regional Municipal del Norte (GTZ);
Fortalacimiento de Capacidad Municipal (JSAID) and; projects financed through the Ministerio
de Acci6n Social.



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 3 of 17
Decree 44-94) to propose and manage a national decentralization strategy. The SDC
forms part of the Executive Committee for Public Sector Reform (CERAP -- Comite
Ejecutivo para la Reforma de la Administraci6n Ptublica). The SDC is composed of the
President of INIFOM, who chairs the SDC, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Health, the Ministry of Education, the President of INAA and the Vice-Minister of the
Presidency for State Affairs. The SDC has defined seven overriding principles that should
guide the decentralization process: (1) public participation; (2) political conmmitment; (3)
gradual change; (4) capacity building and technical assistance; (5) transfer of resources;
(6) strong legal framework; and (7) restructuring and modemization of institutions. The
proposed IDA project would specifically target aspects (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6). The five
immediate tasks of the SDC are to: (1) propose a decentralization strategy; (2) propose
the reform to the Municipalities Law including in a system of fiscal transfers for
municipalities, to be approved by the National Assembly; (3) strengthen INIFOM; (4)
develop a plan of technical assistance and capacity building for municipalities; and (5)
implement and test local government models in pilot municipalities. During preparation of
the proposed IDA project some of these actions have been supported with preparation
funds and would continue to be supported during project implementation. The SDC has
already proposed the draft document for the reform to the Municipalities Law (which is an
integral part of the decentralization framework) which would define more precisely the
constitutional reforms introduced recently. Many of the line agencies (Education, Health,
Water, Natural Resources and Environment) are increasingly delegating implementation of
programs and projects to the local level.
This process is at a critical stage today due to the combination between the
weaknesses of local governments, particularly the rural ones, and the demands posed by
the decentralization process. Municipal governments are being given an ever increasing
role in the economy but for the most part are extremely weak in aspects of planning,
administrative and financial management, resource mobilization, delivery of public
services, cost recovery, and participatory processes. Thus while there is a new thrust
towards decentralization at the national level, rural local institutions are at a loss for
assuming their new roles. Capacity strengthening of local governments, including more
community participation, which is consistent with the decentralization agenda of GON,
must proceed at the same pace as the national decentralization agenda for it to be
successful.
INIFOM. The key institution in charge of municipal issues at the central
government level is the Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development (INIFOM; see
Chapter 2 of the SAR for a discussion of INIFOM). A recent study supported by IDA's
Institutional Development Credit identified the following main weaknesses in INIFOM:
(1) unclear role once decentralization is accomplished; (2) high number of managers
relative to professional staff, (3) lack of capacity to respond to municipal demands for
technical assistance and municipal studies; (4) conflictive roles in municipal development
and in municipal auditing and monitoring; (5) employment and career insecurity of
INIFOM staff; and (6) weak regional offices.
INIFOM has signed an Institutional Restructuring Agreement with CERAP in
the Ministry of Finance. Under the IRA, INIFOM agrees to implement the actions defined



Annex I
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 4 of 17
in the Reform of the Public Service under the general supervision of the General
Directorate of the Public Service and the financial reforms identified in the Integrated
System for Financial Management, Administration and Auditing under the supervision of
the Ministry of Finance. More specifically INIFOM agrees to implement the following
reforms during the next two years: (1) On Institutional Reform: (a) to define strategic
objectives and the institutional role; (b) to redesign the organizational structure; and (c) to
establish a system of monitoring and evaluation. (2) On Technical Capacity: (a) to put in
place management systems to assist the process of decentralization and municipal
governments; (b) to train staff on decentralization and municipal strengthening; and (c) to
develop instruments for coordinating donor financed projects. And on Office Technology:
to implement a plan for electronic management of databases.
Municipal Financing. One critical issue is municipal financing. Among
Central American countries, Nicaragua allocates the highest percentage of GDP to
municipal financing (3.0% for Nicaragua in 1989 as opposed to 2.4% for Honduras;
1.2% for Guatemala; 1.1% for Costa Rica (1990); and 0.7% for Panama (1987).
However in Nicaragua the fourteen more urbanized municipalities capture the lion's share
of municipal resources. These fourteen municipalities account for 75% of all municipal
expenditures, but include only 49% of the population. While an urban municipality spends
on average more than US$20.0 per capita per year the more rural ones invest less than
US$0.50 per capita per year. The revenue and expenditure gap between the larger and
more urbanized municipalities, usually larger towns where regional offices of central
government agencies and most services are concentrated, and smaller and rural ones is due
to distortions arising from the municipal financing system.
Ninety seven percent of all municipal revenues are generated through various
local taxes and fees. There are very limited central government fiscal transfers (3% of
total municipality revenues in 1992) and in the absence of fiscal transfers municipalities
must rely on programs of line agencies or specialized institutions such as the FISE over
which they have little control. In 1992 74% of municipal revenues originated from taxes
and fees with the bulk coming from (I) the sales tax (3 7%); (2) the property tax (6%); (3)
the vehicle tax (5%); (4) the business registration tax (8%); and (5) user charges and fees
(16%). Sales taxes and business registration taxes, in particular, are predominantly
collected in trading centers where businesses are located, usually cities and towns. Less
urbanized municipalities, which generate important productive activities in agriculture, see
these activities be indirectly taxed (namely through the 2 percent sales tax) by urban
municipalities but do not share in the revenues. As a result urban municipalities have much
larger investment expenditures per capita than rural ones, which do not have the means to
invest in the public services necessary for the productive sectors.
A background paper prepared in the course of project preparation5
recommends that in the area of municipal financing the GON should: (1) strengthen the
finances of municipalities with weak economic bases through a national revenue sharing
system; (2) consolidate the current revenue structure of local governments; (3) eliminate
5      See project's background paper in project file: Garz6n, Hernando. 1995. "Municipal
Finances and Decentralization".



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 5 of 17
the 50% minimum limit on cost recovery of user fees and encourage sustainability through
full cost recovery policies; and (4) make explicit in the municipal law that municipalities
may pledge financial assets as guarantees for payrnent and make clear the rights of
creditors to seize financial assets. The draft Municipalities Law in the National Assembly
includes a Section on municipal financing proposing a revenue sharing mechanism to
compensate municipalities with a low revenue generation potential. The principle is that
GON would transfer a percentage of its revenues (4%) to municipalities according to a
formula reflecting population, poverty, area, participation effort and own revenue effort.
The transfers would be financed by reallocating resources from local development
programs currently channeled through INIFOM, National Assembly, MAS and Institute of
Sports. IDA supported background studies on this issue (see Annex 13).
4. LOCAL INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
A. Local Governments
Project Municipalities
During preparation two evaluations of the capacity of the 32 municipalities
selected for the project were carried out. The first evaluation developed three typologies of
municipality-A, B, and C--according to their revenue resources mobilization capacity (see
Table Al. l), while the second evaluation focused on the adequacy of municipal financial
management (see Figure A 0. 1). These assessments led to the conclusion that municipal
govermnents have important weaknesses, some of them intrinsic to the nature of local
govemments, and others resulting from the particular Nicaraguan context:
*  financial weaknesses that results in part from the limited resources;
*  administrative weaknesses because of the lack of a professional career at
the municipal level which leads to a high tumover of personnel;
*  urban bias: municipal councils have a vast majority of representatives from
urban areas though the share of voters from urban and rural areas is
approximately the same in Nicaragua. Although an urban bias is efficient
because the cost per beneficiaries of service provision is lower when
beneficiaries are concentrated, in Nicaragua this bias is inflated by an
electoral process that does not link elected officials to voters in rural areas;
*  insufficient use of public consultation and participatory approaches;
*  limited planning capacity, due in part to technical weaknesses, and in part
to the lack of resources needed from planning exercises;
*  difficulties in intemalizing regional, national and global enviromental
concems due to the local nature of municipal jurisdictions;
*  weak legal framework for local public finance and lack of revenue sharing
mechanisms that benefit disadvantaged municipalities.



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 6 of 17
Table A1.1. Typology of Municipalities According to Capacity
in Proposed Project Area
Type    |       Main weaknesses            Proposed Project Focus     Municipalities
A - Revenue  (1) Insufficient community     (1) Participation and       Leon, Chinandega
per capita    participation and supervision; (2)   supervision; (2) coordination
greater than   limited coordination of local  of local investments
US$15 per   investments
B - Revenue  (1) Insufficient conmmunity and  (1 )Participation and     Chichigalpa,
per capita   municipal council participation  supervision; (2) planning  Corinto, El Realejo
between      and supervision; (2) no        and coordination of local   El Viejo, Puerto
USS3 and     coordination of local investmnents;  investments; (3)     Morazan, El Jicaral,
USS 15 per   (3) limited investment resources;   administrative and financial   Telica, El Sauce, La
year         (4) limited own revenues; (5)  management; (4) own         Paz Centro, Nueva
weak management, limited      revenue mobilization; (5)   Guinea, El
technical personnel, no permanent  training and recruitment; (6)   Almendro
workers; (6) very limited      investments; (7) recurrent
investments; (7) limited resources  cost financing
for recurrent cost
C - Revenue   (1) Insufficient commnunity and  (I) Participation and    Somotillo,
per capita   municipal council participation  supervision; (2) planning and  Villanueva, Cinco
between      and supervision; (2) no        coordination; (3) establish  Pinos, San Pedro del
US$0 and     coordination of local investments;  administrative and financial   Norte, Santo Tomas
US$3 per    (3) no investment resources; (4)    management structures; (4)    del Norte, San
year         no own revenues; (5) weak      own revenue mobilization;    Francisco del Norte,
management and no technical    (5) training and recruitment;  Posoltega,
personnel; (6) no investments; (7)  (6) investmnents; (7) recurrent  Larreynaga,
no resources for recurrent costs    cost financing        Quezalguaque, Santa
Rosa del Penon,
i ___________  _______________________________                          A chuapa
Institutional capacity. Municipal capacity is highly correlated with own
revenues. During project preparation a typology of municipalities was developed based on
this relationship (Table A 1.1). Within the 32 project municipalities already selected for
the project the capacity to assume increased responsibility over poverty natural resource
management and economic development ranges from "extremely limited" to "limited".
Le6n is the only exception. It is the only municipality with a medium-term, strategic
development plan and with the administrative, managerial and technical capacity to
implement it. After Le6n, in terms of administrative and technical ability and financial
status the municipality of Chinandega is the most capable. The remainder of municipal
govermnents are generally weak in financial, administrative and technical ability. They
have little capacity to generate income and make investments. They lack the necessary
technical resources, both in terms of human resources and basic equipment.



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 7 of 17
Table A1.2. Municipal Capacity - Finances and Educational Attainments of Political
Leadership (Cordobas)
Municipality         Per Capita Per Capita Salaries Invest. as Municipal Council's Academic Level
Revenues  bnvest.   as %      % Income
Income                                                  I
Le6n                 194.8      119.9     22       62        Mayor:lawyer,12 professional councilors and
I_____     _____      ____             8  high  school.
hinandega           111.7     5.1        70       5        Mayor: lawyer, I professional councillor,
and 16 high school.
hichigalpa          97.5       2.4       36       23       Mayor: private accountant, 3 professional
__________________  ________  _____ councilors, 4 High Sch. and 6 Grade Sch.
Sorinto             88.4       1.1       56       1        Mayor, incomplete high school; 4 prof
councilors, 6 High School, 6 Grade School
I Realejo           83.2       15.8      30       19         ayor, Graduate; 5 High School councilors
and_I Grade School.
J licaral           43.8       16.5      29       38          yor, Professor; I High School councilor
and 5 Grade School.
!agarote           36.6       7.7        36       M1yor, Grade School; 6 professional
councilors and 10 Grade School.
La Paz Centro        34.3      7.8        38       23       Mayor, Grade School; 5 High School
__________________   ________             _______ ______   councilors and 13 Grade School.
Telica               29.7       1.6       55       6        Mayor, Incomplete High School; 3 High
School councilors and 8 Grade School.
erto Morazan       27.0       0.6       53       2        Mayor, Graduate; 4 High School councilors
________   l_____ _____   and 4 Grade School.
El Sauce             26.9        1         3       19        Mayor, Grade School; 3 Grade School
___ __ __ __ ___ _  __ __ _  ___ __ __ __ __councilors and  12 Grade  School.
El Viejo             26.6       0.4       60       1         Mayor: Private accountant; 2 professional
councilors, 7 High School and 7 Grade
__________________     ________   ______  ________   School
El Almendro          25.9        1        34       35       Mayor: Grade School; Councilors: Grade
School
Nueva Guinea         25.2       6.6       36       26        Mayor: Grade School; Councilors: Grade
School
Larreynaga          23.9       .5         0        7        Mayor, Professor; 10 High School
_Councilors and 8 Grade School.
ezalguaque        23.4       1          44      4         Mayor, Grade School; 2 Grade School
Councilors and 7 Grade School
anta Rosa del PefM6n   17.9    0.2       55                 Mayor, Grade School; I High School
I_______ __Councilor and 8 Grade School.
Somotillo            16.6       2.7       44       16         ayor, Incomplete High School; 2
rofessional councilors, 6 High School and 8
__________________  _________   ______ _  Grade  School
Villanueva           16.2       2.3       70       14        Mayor, Graduate; I professional councilor, 2
__________________________High School, and 3 Grade School.
Achuapa              15.4       1.2       41       8         Mayor, Grade School; Councilors: 10 Grade
School
osoltega            15.0       1         64       7         Mayor, Professor, 2 professional councilors
H_igh School and I Grade School.
San Francisco del Norte 12.5    1.2       36       9         Mayor, Grade School; 7 Grade School
I____I ____ I_     __________     Councilors
Cinco Pinos          11.0                  5       44        Mayor, Grade School Professor, I
professional councilor, 5 High School and 2
____________      _               _   _                     Grade School



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 8 of 17
Municipality       Per Capita Per Capita Salaries Invest. as Municipal Council's Academic Level
Revenues Invest.   as %    % Income
Income
Santo Tonais del Norte 6.1  0         79      0       Mayor; Grade School; I High School
Councilor and 8 with Grade School studies.
an Pedro del Norte   nd    nd        nd      nd      Mayor, High School; Grade School
Councilor
Existing capacity reflects the demands which have been placed on municipal
government. With few exceptions (e.g., Le6n and Chinandega), the vast majority of public
investments in social, productive, and environmental infrastructure and services are made
with funds which bypass municipalities. In the few cases where funds do pass through
municipal government, they are maintained outside municipal accounts and donors reserve
responsibility for accounting and oversight. As a result the most relevant weaknesses are
those related to financial administration and management. Without financial resources
there is little incentive to generate capacity for administration and management and without
administrative and managerial capacity it has been difficult to access and increase
financial resources.
Financial Management Experience. Municipalities do have experience (and
thus capacity) where they have been able to raise substantial local revenues. Total 1994
investment for development activities by government (local and national) 16 in project
municipalities was US$9.3 million (see Table Al.3). In the overwhelning majority of
cases investments in developmental activities were very modest and the funds managed by
municipal government represented only a small percentage of the total. A statistical
breakdown shows:
(1) a median investment per municipality of US$139,000; ranging from
US$36,000 (Cinco Pinos) to US$4.5 million (Le6n);
(2) a mean per capita investment of US$8.20; ranging from US$2.82
(Posoltega) to US$23.52 (Leon); and
(3) that funds generated by municipal governments accounted for 41% of
total investments; ranging in individual municipalities' contributions from
less than 1% to 72%. 50% of municipalities contributed less than 10%,
and 90% less than 25%.
All project municipalities have at least rudimentary financial accounting and
control systems (see Table Al .4 and Figure AIO. 1). About 70% of project municipalities
have their defined organizational structure completely staffed. Some 40% of them have
manuals of municipal government functions and 30% have terms-of-reference and manuals
of procedures for municipal employees. All but one project municipality maintains a set of
6' - "Development Activities" are defined here as those carried out either with municipal funds
or with funds that originate from the FISE or MAS, these latter representing transfers from
central government. Investments made through foreign donor's projects (bi-lateral, NGO, etc)
are not included here.



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 9 of 17
books which are current and the majority (8 0%) have contracted external, independent
audits within the last three years.
Table A1.3. Municipal-level Investments in Development Activities (1994)
Municipality    Municipality    %  Municipal      MAS             FISE            Total
Development       Budget          Funds           Funds
Funds
El Viejo     X               26             10      684            1,713           2,423
P/Morazan                     8             220      177             185             371
omotillo                    74             2%       197            2,782           3,053
SITomas del N                0             0/      190             193             383
inco Pinos                 40             160       200             16             256
S/Pedrodel N                nd             nd       250             521             770
Fco del N                   10             2/       175             327             512
illanueva                  52             20        131            1,949          2,103
hinandega                  571             7%       531            6,651           7,753
gosoltea                    18             4%       99              352            470
hichigalpa               1,189           57/        181             719            2,089
El Realejo                 122            22/       263             166             551
orinto                     29              3/       172             912            1,113
Achuapa                    22             5%        225            208             454
E Sauce                    164            150/      71              866            1,101
antaRosa                     2             10       199             697             898
E Jicaral                  162            15%       240             669            1,071
Larreynaga                    2            200/      177             852            1,286
Telica                       41             50       400             372             813
Quezalguaque                 10             20       180             428            618
Le6n                   22,784            72%       337            8,540          31,660
La Paz Centro               255             90/      179            2,354           2,787
Nagarote                    298            23-/      243             732            1,272
Nueva Guinea                665            21!       304            2,260           3,229
ElAlmendro                  201            31%1      184             270            655
During preparation a detailed evaluation of the systems or financial control
within each of the 32 municipalities was carried out7. In each municipality procedures,
staff qualifications and practices were evaluated against the Bank's norms and guidelines
contained in the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH). The
results are sunmnarized in Table Al.4. The study was used to develop an indicator of
financial mnanagement standards which is presented in Annex I 0, Figure A I 0. 1. The study
also proposed an action plan, to be supported by the project, to bring financial controls up
to Bank standards.
7       see project background document in project file: ALTERDEC. 1996.
"Evaluaci6n/diagn6stico contable de 32 municipios de Le6n, Chinandega, Rio San Juan y
Zelaya y dos entidades de Gobierno (INIFOMy MARENA) ".



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 10 of 17
Table A1.4. Evaluation of Financial Controls in Candidate Municipalities'
Municipality         Financial         Municipality          Financial
Management                             Management
Indicator                              Indicator
I Chinandega                90%        17 La Paz Centro             30%
2 Le6n                      80%        18 Somotillo                 30%
3 El Viejo                  60%        19 El Almendro               20%
4 Puerto Morazan            60%        20 El Realejo                20%
5 Nagarote                  50%        21 Posoltega                 20%
6 El Jicaral                40%        22 San Carlos                20%
7 Achuapa                   30%        23 Telica                    20%
8 Chichigalpa               30%        24 Cinco Pinos               20%
9 Corinto                   30%        25 Larreynaga                20%
10 El Castillo               30%       26 Morrito                    20%
11 El Sauce                  30%       27 Quezalguaque               20%
12 Muelle de los Bueyes      30%       28 San Fco. del Norte         20%
13 Nueva Guinea              30%       29 San Juan del Norte         20%
14 Rama                      30%       30 San Pedro del Norte        20%
15 San Miguelito             30%       31 Santo TomAs                20%
16 Villanueva                30%       32 Sta. Rosa del Peff6n       20%
Indicator: < 50% = not adequate; 50-80% = moderatly adequate; > 80% adequate
Municipal Decision-Making. As entities responsible for raising their own
operating budgets, municipal governments have had to develop mechanisms for making
decisions which include some prioritization and conflict resolution functions. All
important decisions are made by the Municipal Council, which has ultimate authority. The
strength of the Municipal Councils, however, lies only in their role as a political decision
making body, i.e. they are not broadly representative of the municipal population's political
or socio-economic diversity. They are elected proportionally from political party lists
(which tend to head the lists with candidates from urban areas) with the result that a
disproportionate number of councilors are urban residents while rural and urban residents
vote in similar proportions. Roughly it was calculated that on average only 13% of
councilors reside in rural areas while rural populations contributed roughly 50% of all
votes. Hence Municipal Councils do not intemalize as well the concems of rural
communities as they do of urban ones and are not well positioned to initiate activities
directed at sustainable rural development, rural poverty the environment, and natural
resource management. This is further underscored in the majority of project municipalities
where the average level of educational attainment among the mayors and councils is low.
There is a rising comprehension in many rural based municipalities, however, that the only
a      The "Financial Management Indicator" was developed on the basis of 27 weighted
variables which assessed the accounting system, staff adequacy, internal auditing, and financial
management of the 32 municipalities



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 11 of 17
viable source of municipality wealth and hence municipal revenues is the rural sector.
There is thus a renewed effort to develop municipal programs to support further
development of rural based activities often seen as a source of local taxes, although there is
very limited technical capacity to design and implement such programs.
Civic society participation in municipal decision-making. Informal mechanisms
which function to enhance participation in the decision-making process exist in the
majority of project municipalities. (see Table A1.5). The majority of municipalities also
have some type of organized "Community Development" committees. A special case with
a large impact are the Local Development Committees (LDC) created by the Ministry of
Social Affairs (MAS). LDCs are local structures made of sometimes elected and
sometimes non-elected community representatives and notables (priest, teacher, etc.) that
propose local investment priorities for public financing. LDCs are a controversial
initiative among municipal governments for two reasons: (1) there has been little financial
support for the investments identified by LDCs and thus some people claim that LDCs
have lost clout and there is some participation fatigue as the initial efforts led to limited
results; and (2) LDCs are a structure that is parallel to and substitutes for decision-making
functions of local government (municipal council), hence often are ignored by them.
Table A1.5. Presence of Formal/Informal Mechanisms For Participation in Decision-
making in Le6n and Chinandega
Municipality    Work Committees In  Civic Development  NGO Presence In           Ongoing
Municipal Council ?    Committees ?        Municipality       Development
l ____________________                                     _____________________     P rojects
Le6n                        yes                 yes                high            large number
Chinandega                  no                  no                 low                 none
|hichigalpa                yes                 yes                 low                 na
|orinto                    yes                 yes                 low                 na
I$l Realejo                no                 yes                 low                 na
I Jicaral                 yes                 no                 low                 none
Nagarote                    no                  yes                low                 none
La Paz Centro               no                  yes              medium              very few
Telica                      no                  no                 low                  na
erto Morazan                yes                 no                 low               very few
El Sauce                    no                  no                 high               many
1 Viejo                     no                 yes               regular            very few
'I Almendro                 no                 yes                 low                none
4ueva Guinea                no                 yes              very high             many
Karreynaga                yes                 yes               medium              very few
Iuezalguaque               no                  no                 low                  na
IRosa del PefI6n           no                 yes               medium              very few
omotillo                  yes                 yes               very high            many
Ilanueva                  no                  yes                high               very few
chuapa                     no                 yes                high                none
osoltega                   no                  no                 low                none
an Francisco N            yes                 yes               medium              very few
inco Pinos                 no                 yes               medium              very few
anto TomAs N              yes                 yes               medium              very few
an Pedro N                 no                 yes               medium              very few



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 12 of 17
B. Non-Government Organizations (NGOs).
Typology of NGOs. Capacity among local NGOs is critical to the feasibility
of devolving greater responsibility to the local level (see Table Al.6). NGOs play an
extremely imnportant role in most phases of local development and they control substantial
human and financial resources.19 NGOs are required to have a legal identity (personalidad
jurdica) and under the law are considered as civic, non-profit organizations.
Associations and cooperatives (such as for producers) take their legal form and identity
through the regulations enforced by the Direcci6n de Cooperativas in the Ministry of
Labor. NGOs operating within the project area can be divided into four types: (1)
national-level NGOs created before 1990; (2) national-level and local-level NGOs created
since 1990; (3) associations with local coverage; and (4) projects administered by foreign
donors that convert into NGOs:
(1) National-Level NGOs Created Before 1990 includes FUNDE, FACS,
CEPAD, CEPRODEL and CAPRI; all of which manage a diverse
portfolio of programs that include: social assistance, sustainable
development, environment, gender, child care, and emergency
response/disaster relief. Since 1990 they have all been implementing
credit programs for financing productive activities. Since 1992 they have
all also added "green" emphases to their programs.
(2) National and Local-Level NGOs Created Since 1990 developed
primarily specific thematic areas such as woman-in-development, child
care, human rights, sustainable development, environment, etc. Examples
of national-level NGOs of this type include: CIPRES which implements
sustainable development projects, and NITLAPLAN which specializes in
credit intermediation to small and medium farmers. There are numerous
examnples of local-level NGOs; as a group they have diverse roots both
within the municipalities (e.g. SELVA an environmental NGO which
operates only in one municipality) and outside (e.g. Fundaci6n Le6n 2000,
an NGO which developed out of a central government agency program).
The majority of these NGOs provide services to projects, responding to
those areas in which financing is available.
(3) Associations With Local Coverage are organizations with a membership
consisting of individual farmers or farmer cooperatives. The latter type
are second-level associations or cooperative unions (e.g., UNAG,
UROCOOM, and UCOOM) whose clients are service and credit
cooperatives and multi-sectoral cooperatives. They tend to specialize in
facilitation of credit and marketing. The former provide a range of
9' - According to a PRIAG study (Abaunza, B.M., 1993. Las Organizaci6nes No
Gubernamentales En La Generaci6n y Transferencia de Tecnologia), Nicaraguan NGOs may
currently be providing services to about 70,000 households and managing as much as US$ 100
million.



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 13 of 17
services (e.g., credit, training, extension, and marketing) but only to
affiliated individuals. Many affiliates are farmers who have been
"saneados" for failure to repay loans and are thus no longer creditworthy.
Few women have had access to the associations' credit programs and, as
a result, there is a growing move toward the establishment of women's
associations (e.g. APROAL in Le6n).
(4) Foreign Donor Projects That Convert Into NGOs include the projects
Manual L6pez and CHINORTE (now, "Fondo Del Desarrollo") which
now remain as NGOs with a regional coverage. Their programs tend to
cover health, potable water, women-in-development, and natural resource
management. They also provide credit, acting as intermediaries for both
state and private banks.
NGO Activities. The activities of the NGOs working within the project area
fall within the following categories (see Table Al.6):
(1) sustainable development programs - directed toward small farmers in the
dry and humid tropics, offering technical options to overcome production
constraints (e.g. improved seed, soil and moisture conservation, soil
fertility management);
(2) micro-enterprise development - primarily credit intermediation programs,
these tend to be urban-based programs with little rural presence;
(3) credit intermediation - stand alone projects which operate communal
banks, cajas rurales, etc.
(4) agricultural credit - cooperative programs for production and marketing of
basic grains and some few, other agricultural commodities;
(5) environmental education - generally oriented toward the promotion of
improved farming and land use practices; and
(6) women's programs - these tend to focus on micro-activities (e.g. chickens
and pigs) at the household-level; there is an incipient trend (e.g. APROAL
and UNAG/Chinandega) to recognize women's wider roles in the economy
and environment and provide a broader range of opportunities than the
current.
NGO Capacity. With little exception NGOs are highly dependent on funding
from foreign donors; the exceptions are the credit intermediaries and those that sell
services (technical assistance, training, marketing). Neither national governrnent nor local
philanthropists are a significant source of financing. As a result, the national-level NGOs
have had a good deal of experience in proposal writing and competitive fund-raising with
foreign donors. The local NGOs have much less experience in these areas, mostly due to a
lack of infornation about funding sources and their individual requirements.



Annex 1
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 14 of 17
Table A1.6 NGO Activities
SPECIALJZED    EXPERIENCE    iNTER INSlTU.   EXPERENCE                 INTERNAL ORG.
YEARS OF        MAIN           PROGRAM    IN ENVIRONhL  IN CREDIT                COORDINATION   IN TECHNICAL    AND STRUCTU-   FINANCIAL
EXPERIENCE   PROGRAMS    DIMENSION   PROGRAMS                   PROGRAMS         CAPACITY          ASSIS TtAINIG   RAL INFLUENCE  SOURCES
NGO's with non- Work with       Budget greater Rural projects    Alternative     Coord. exper.      Manage training    Have consolida-    From not gov.
tional coverage  progrsmatic    than S500.000  with emphasis    credit funds     with Mayor's       programs.         ted structures.    institutions.
vision and stra-  per annum,    on the environ.                  Offkes and
Begun before   tegic plan.                                      *FACS            Central Govern-   'FACS              'FACS              'Leon 2000
190.                            'CIPRES       'FACS             *CIPRES          ment institut.    'CIPRES            'CIPRES            'AMILEON
I CPFRES        'FACS         'CIPRES           'NIMTAPAN                           *CEPAD           F'JNDE              'ASODEAL
'FUNDE         *NMAN            'FLJNDE       'SELVA            *CEPAD           'FACS             'Leon 2000         'NITLAPAN          From other
PFACS          'FACS            5NITLAPAN    RuCl and urban  *Leon 200D           CEPAD             'FUNDE            'UNAGING           Govtd
*CEPAD          'NITLAPAN      gCEPAD          nviro.projects,   *FUNDE           Leon 2000        'ADp               Hove central HQ
FNITLAPAN      SCEPAD   i       Fondo Desarrt   UFAMA                             FUENDE            Sphfic projects n  nd HQ loc        Ntes  CIPRES
*MAN           eADp       t     ADP 'p AN                       Ltcal revolving    *CIPRES          with trining com-                    *FACS
UADP            *oeNAG          Between  eSS   *CIPES          tunds.            aASODEAL           ponnts.           'SCIPRES LNITLAPAN
'FUNDE          300D00 and    'SELVA                             'ASODELCO                            PFACS              dSELVA
Begun mfter    Work wlith spec. 499.000 p/s.   Search of sus-    *UCAIS          *NITLAPAN          'FACS             'CEPAD             *FLtNDE
1990.
projectsM      t'inbe produc-  *COOP StAna    Fondc DesarrO                        'CEPAD            H'vL e ocan 2 l     'UNMAN
'CIPRES                         'MAN          tion mnodds' *AMILEON              USELVA             'SELVA            staf.              From externl 
'FUJNCOD        'SELVA          *Leon 2000                      *Palo de Hula    *COOP Sta Ana      'M(AN                                NGOs.
'CFAMA          '         eUCOOM                                           'UUCOM  CIPRES  UCOOM  Coordination ex-    *AMILEON  '  FNDE
NGO'swAith      sUCAIS          Betwein USS dFACS iAPROAL                         erience wiith t.NAGING               'CIPRES           'FACS
regional niLtional
coverage.       -COOP Stb Ana  50.000 and     'NITLAPAN                          other NGO&         *UCOOM             'FACS             'CIPRES
'UNAG/NG       299.000 p/s.   'FUNDE                                                Programs which    'CEPAD             'MAN
Begu n after    'AMILEON                                                         *FACS              include technicml,  *MAN             'SEL VA
1990.
Concentrxte    'AMILEON                                          *CEPAD             productive, and   Work In Leon,      'NITLAPAN
-Fondo de       in productive    *COOP Stas Ana                                   MAN"              dmin training.    Chinandegs and    'UCOOM
Desarrol lo     proj ects.      'AS ODELCO                                        C IPRES                             South East         'UCAi S
'ASODELCO                       *Palo de Hule                                    *Fondo Desarr.     'NITLAPAN                            'UNAG/NG
'ASODEAL        'UCOOM         Between USS                                       *Palo de Hule     *FACS              'FACS              'ASODELCO
-Palo de Hule    *UCAIS         50 000 and                                                          'CEPAD            'CEPAD             *Palo de Hulc
'SELVA          *UJNAG/NG       10.000 p/s.                                                         'CIPRES                              From relig.
-Leon 2000      *APROAL                                                                             *Leon 2000                           groups.
*ANMIEON        *COOP Sta.Ana  *UCAIS                                                              'AMILEON
' APROAL        -URCOCOOM    * APROAL                                                               'UCOOM                               'CEPAD
IF/Del Rio      Specialized in    LenJ than USS                  __Emph sii on                                        NG4O HQ is local   Njitonsl NGO
*ADPS           environmental  10.000 p/s                                                          technicaUlproduc-                     funds.
Unions          projects.                                                                           tive training.    'SELVA
*SELVA                                                                                'ASODELCO          *Palo de Hule
' U C OOM   ' MAN          ' ASODEAL                                                           'AMILEON           *Lecn 2000         ' UNAGING
'UCAIS         'SELVA                                                                               'UCAIS            'AMILEON           'SELVA
-COOP Sta.Ana  Strong emlpha-                                                                       'UCOOM            'UCOOM             'ASODELCO
*UNAGING        sis in credit.                                                                      *UNAG/NG          'UCAiS             Matching
Provide training    'COOP.Sba Ana    funds
'UiCOOM                                                                            in environment    'Palo de Hiule
'UCAIS                                                                             only.              'ASODEAL           'AMILEON
'COOPSta.Ania                                                                                         'Fondo Desarr      'Palo de Hule
*Leon 2000                                                                         'M4AN              'APROAL
'FUJNDE                                                                             'SELVA            Conmputerized
*palo de Hule                                                                                         ly ttMsloGWn
Have integral                                                                                         transportation
development
approach.                                                                                              FUNDE



Annex I
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 15 of 17
SPECIALIZlD  EXPERIENCE  INTER INSTITU. LXPERIENCE   INTERNAL ORG.
YEARS OF   MAIN      PROGRAM  IN ENVIRONM. IN CREDIT    COORDINATION IN TECHNICAL  AND STRUCTU- FINANCIAL
EXPRIENCE PROGRAMS  DIMENSION PROGRAMS   PROGRAMS   CAPACIrY        ASSIS.TRADING RAL INFLUENCE SOURCUS
'FACS                                                                 CEPAD
*CEPAD                                                                'CIPES
OAMILEON                                                              FACS
Foido Dca                                                             *Fondo De.m
'ASODELCO                                                             Have qualw
ye emergei i.ft.
mi.prog.
'JMA
'FACS                                                                 CIPRES
CEPAD                                                                'FACS
'I1JNDE
*CEPAD
'NITLAPAN
*'AMLEON
The national NGOs established before 1990 exhibit a higher level of
institutional capacity for financial management of projects. They maintain computerized
accounting systems and have well-established, professional sources from which to solicit
institutional assistance. They are also becoming self-sufficient in terms of recurrent costs,
though as yet this does not signify an ability to cover basic administrative costs with their
own funds. Having developed the capacity to access multi-lateral funds (e.g., from IDB
and EU), they have also had to develop professional systems for project administration and
monitoring. As a normal routine, they maintain project funds and the NGO's personal
funds in separate bank accounts, keep up-to-date financial and accounting records, and
submit themselves to annual external audits. The national NGOs established since 1990
also tend to exhibit a reasonable level of institutional capacity, though less advanced given
their shorter institutional life.
The majority of the local NGOs created since 1990 demonstrate potential, but
as yet their admninistrative capacity is limited. Their weakest area tends to be accounting
systems. As noted above, due to the lack of resources for institutional strengthening the
development of capabilities in these areas has lagged behind. The exception to this has
been those NGOs (e.g. Fundaci6n Le6n 2000) which developed out of central government
programs where capacity building funds were provided.
The associations with local coverage could be characterized as having a
capacity lying somewhere between that of the national and local NGOs. The second-level
associations maintain professional accounting and administrative personnel at their central
offices. Where the problems occur is at the level of the cooperatives and groups with
whom they work. At this level the lack of formal education and resources with which to
contract specialized personnel translates into minimal administrative and accounting
capabilities. The problems are exacerbated by the absence of any standardized accounting
systems and minimal access to training. Where exceptions exist, i.e., in the larger
cooperatives that can afford to hire personnel with more education and experience, the lack
of resources for training and office equipment (e.g., computers) is an obstacle.
As regards the NGOs arising out of foreign donor projects, they are well-
trained and professionally equipped, particularly in those cases such as CHINORTE where



Annex I
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 16 of 17
an effort was made to leave adequate installed capacity for fund management following
project closure.
C. Local Technical Capacity for Natural Resources Management
On-going Projects. There are a number of initiatives in the project areas
directed at improving agricultural productivity. In the Pacific area, there are two
important bilaterally financed projects (Proyecto Pikin Guerrero (NORAD) and Proyecto
de los Maribios (Netherlands financed, FAO executed)) aimed at developing sustainable
agricultural technology in the buffer zone around and on the lower slopes of the Maribios,
the chain of volcanos that runs parallel to the coast a little to the north-west of Le6n and
Chinandega towns, and a third one (FINNIDA financed) that aims more specifically at
reforestation, to establish windbreaks and thus reduce wind erosion. In the Caribbean,
there are two main groups working in the field of agricultural technology. One, an NGO
"CIPRES" which has substantial experience with soil management (fertility and erosion
control) for small farmers and the other, a bi-lateral project (Dutch-financed) "PRODES"
which has its own research station and outreach program in Nueva Guinea, where it is
developing alternative production systems for the area. Other foreign-financed projects of
interest are DANIDAIManglares (developing mangrove management techniques in the
Estero Real), and CATIE/MADELENA (applied forestry research and demonstrations for
fuelwood, poles and timber production).
Technology Transfer. INTA provides rather limited extension services to
small and medium-scale farmers, and, in keeping with Government's policy to achieve the
gradual privatization of the research and extension agencies, a growing part of these must
be provided by the private sector. Presently, INTA fields about 50 technical specialists
and 200 extensionists countrywide; in the project area in the Pacific zone there are a total
of about 24 extensionists covering 11 municipalities
A study no of 88 entities (NGOs, projects, universities, institutions) active in
natural resource management found that over 60% of them worked in the promotion of soil
conservation and fertility management. The main technical offerings in these areas were
live barriers, organic fertilizers, green manure crops, contour cultivation and reforestation.
Only 21% of these worked directly with agricultural production, though this primarily
implied improved seed and provision of hand tools. Other activities (e.g., family gardens,
IPM, forest and fruit tree nurseries and small irrigation) were promoted by 13% of the
entities studied. Only 4% assisted with commercialization of farm products. One of the
main weaknesses identified by the study was the lack of training for technical personnel;
the overwhelming majority of resources for training were directed toward farmers and
fanner/technicians.
The number of natural resource technical specialists and professionals
(agronomists, agriculturalists, livestock specialists, foresters, biologists, botanists,
ecologists etc) in the project areas (Pacific and Caribbean zones) is uncertain. Best
1o - PASOLAC, 1993. Inventario De Entidades Que Trabajan En Agricultura Sostenible En
Laderas En Nicaragua. Document No.8.



Annex I
Background: The Policy and Institutional
Context for Decentralization
Page 17 of 17
estimates range between 250 and 350 for the total number of governnent, private sector,
and NGO technical specialists in the project's regions. An FAO study "1 found among
688 employees in 9 NGOs that only some 5% were natural resource professionals. The
PRIAG study (see cite in footnote #4) covered 18 NGOs that were estimated to account
for about 75% of technology transfer activities in the non-government sector. Between
them these 18 NGOs employed 668 persons which 119 were natural resource professionals
(50% with licenciatura and 50% tecnicos medios). In addition, these 18 were supporting
a network of 1,170 rural promoters who worked directly with an estimated 11,000 to
15,000 families. The number of natural resource technical specialists outside of
government is assumed to have risen significantly over the last two years since these
studies were completed. Restructuring of the public sector has been steadily reducing the
number of positions in government.
The Non-Government Sector. A great deal of capacity exists within the
NGO sector, however, it also tends to be dispersed and can be quite variable in quality. In
general terms NGOs' main weaknesses lie in their administrative, project formnulation,
project analysis and natural resource technical skills. In terms of logistical support, the
NGOs are relatively better off than the majority of the municipal governments.
Weaknesses in extension methodologies have been noted among a large percentage of the
NGOs which provide extension and other training activities to small farmers. These
include:
(1) little experience with use of participatory diagnostic tools for problem
identification and proposal development;
(2) limited understanding of the technical limits (physical, biological,
chemical) to the technical menu they promote;
(3) frequent improper application of the technical menu (e.g. poor species/site
matching, improperly planted and spaced vegetative barriers; mis-
application of organic inputs, etc);
(4) limited understanding of the conditions for financial viability (markets,
labor, opportunity costs) of the technical menu;
(5) weak training and communication methodologies (e.g., heavy reliance on
farmer workshops and theoretical lectures; unclear focus to messages; too
many messages; training of promoters as broad generalists, etc); and
(6) use of dubious and unsustainable incentives for adoption (e.g., over-
reliance on demonstration fanns, subsidized credit, free inputs and tools,
etc).
- Miranda, Byron. 1992. Nueva Institucionalidadpara el Desarrollo Agricola y Rural en
America Latina. Fao/Managua.






NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 2
BACKGROUND: NATURAL RESOURCES ISSUES AND THE PROJECT AREA!'
1. NATURAL RESOURCES ISSUES
Nicaragua is a country known both for its large areas of still pristine forests,
watercourses and coral reefs in the Atlantic and for a high level of resource degradation in the
Pacific, Northem and Central regions. Underlying most of the resource degradation are
misguided policies, extreme poverty, the civil war and migratory pressures due to the war and
other factors. The Atlantic region has so far escaped these pressures due to poor access, low
population density and the war period during which various armed groups sought refuge in its
forests. The situation is changing however and pressure from refugees, landless farmers and
legitimate development needs are accelerating the advance of the agricultural frontier.
Soils
While soil erosion is considered to be the most important cause of soil degradation
on a national level, other phenomena may be as or more important on a local scale (i.e.
compactation, salinization, acidification, and sodification). Erosion by water is the main
process of interest, wind erosion is also important in numerous (specific) locations throughout
the westem half of the country. About 7.7 million ha are affected by erosion, of which 52% is
classified as having light to moderate erosion; 33% as having moderate to high erosion; and
15% as high to severe erosion. The main causes of accelerated erosion are: (1) deforestation;
(2) lack of integration of conservation practices into land use practices (including roads); (3)
rapid, uncontrolled expansion of annual cropping and livestock over the last 30 years; and (4)
inappropriate land uses.
At a national level, drops in yield have been noted and ascribed to erosion. Little
empirical evidence exists though one study found a yield decline in com of 82% over a 9 year
period as a result of soil loss (NEAP/NIC, 1994). Areas identified as having priority
erosion/soil degradation problems are: (1) the southern watershed of Managua; (2) the foothills
of the San Cristobal, Chonco and Casita volcanic complex; (3) the foothills of Volcan
Cosiguina; (4) Le6n - La Paz Centro areas; (5) south slope of the Meseta de Carazo; (6)
Volcan Mombacho and adjacent areas; (7) the plains in the Tipitapa - Granada area; (8) the
northwestern portion of the Rio Coco watershed; (9) the Jalapa Valley; and (10) the Nueva
Guinea area.
Forests
Since 1950 forest cover has been reduced from 7 million hectares to an estimated
4.3 million hectares (TFAP, 1992). In 1985, one author (Peters, 1985) estimnated the rate of
1' - For a more complete treatment of the subject, see Project Working Papers: (29) "Ordenamiento
Ambiental del Territorio (PROTIERRA) - Problemasy Recomendaciones",.



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 2 of 12
deforestation to be 0.1 million ha/yr. Other authors estimates range from between 0.07 million
ha/yr in 1990 (Utting, 1993) to about 0.125 million ha/yr for the period 1981 to 1990 (FAO,
1993) and 1991 (Merlet et al, 1993). According to the NEAP (1994) this rate has increased in
the last few years to 0.15 million ha/yr. Land classified as suitable only for forestry usage
occupies about 6.2 million ha; divided as 1.8 million ha for conservation and 4.4 million ha for
sustainable use. Some 2.5 million hectares of these lands are deforested and being used for
extensive livestock production or are abandoned and under mixed grass/shrubs. Of the
remaining forest areas about 88% or 3.8 million hectares consists of a humid, tropical forest
cover type with which there is very little positive management experience to draw upon.
The main value of forests in Nicaragua has been in its conversion to agriculture.
As such, the "expansion of the agricultural frontier" is reported to be the principle cause of
deforestation. The greatest pressures are apparently in the Atlantic and parts of the Central
zone. At current rates it is estimated that only 10 to 15 years would be required to eliminate
the remaining areas of productive broadleaf forests (NEAP, 1994). The end of the war and
return of peace to the near-forest zones and demobilization of a large number of soldiers (both
government and contras) in recent years has apparently contributed significantly to an increase
in the rate of conversion. The expansion of agricultural lands and forest conversion also have
roots which lie in: (1) lack of economic incentives for forest management; (2) low productivity
and non-sustainable agricultural practices; (3) poorly defined or missing land tenure; (4) lack
of alternate employment; (5) a strong agricultural tradition in which forests are considered an
obstacle; and (6) little or no tradition of forest management.
The traditional system for forest management in Nicaragua has been to remove
only the valuable species with no subsequent consideration of damage to the residual stand or
for follow up management and/or control. In this system forest was not treated as a renewable
resource, it was simply mined for its value. There are very few examples in the country of
forest management for long term production. In addition, information to manage the forests is
generally lacking. The forests and lands which belong to the state have never been defined or
delimited. National and regional trend data on forest cover and forest use is lacking.
Management data on forest resource abundance, distribution and regenerative capacity is
almost completely missing.
In 1992 about 60% of net energy consumption came from fuelwood (57%) and
charcoal (1 %); almost 99% of which went for residential use (NEAP/NIC, 1994). According
to the TFAP (1992), wood fuel represented about 95% of the average US$ 148.8 million
annual value of forestry products in the early 1990s. Whether or not fuelwood harvesting
constitutes a forest degrading activity in some locations is unknown. What is certain is that
fuelwood production and harvesting is unmanaged and risks exist of it becoming a forest
degrading activity. Harvesting and sales of wood fuels constitutes a significant income
generating activity among the rural poor. Fuelwood is in short supply near densely populated
urban centers and prices have been reported as being high. However, near densely populated
areas in the Pacific zone (i.e. Le6n) there are indications that fuelwood is currently priced as if
it were abundant. Given the large areas of land being allowed to reconvert to woody
vegetation, fuelwood may indeed be abundant.



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 3 of 12
Fire is apparently a problem in a large number of areas where recurrent burning
(primarily for agricultural purposes) is a major contributor to forest degradation and failure of
reforestation efforts.
Water
Inappropriate land uses, lack of a regulatory framework and inadequate protection
(e.g. effluent and solid waste treatment, control of contaminants, provision and enforcement of
penalties/incentives, etc) have all contributed to a deterioration of the nation's water resources.
Problems are further intensified by a lack of planming and subsequent conflicts over water
allocation (e.g. between hydroelectric and irrigation). Specific, priority issues include scarcity,
watershed management and water quality.
Scarcity. The Pacific side and Central Zones receive the least rainfall and
commonly, both their rural and urban areas are characterized as suffering water supply
deficits. Conflict over water allocation appear certain to increase given the desire to expand
irrigated areas and divert water for economic development (e.g. agroprocessing facilities).
Drought in some degree is not infrequent in many parts of the Pacific and Central zones and
the current farming systems, particularly of the small farmers appear to be extremely
vulnerable to drought. Land use practices which decrease the infiltration of rainfall (e.g.
frequent burning, up-and-down slope cultivation, etc) may be contributing to reductions in
groundwater and of surface water low flows on some local scale. Other factors contributing to
the deficits undoubtedly include population increases with little or no parallel investment in
upgrading of water systems and in some areas of the Pacific zone possibly includes
uncontrolled exploitation of groundwater.
Watershed management. Watersheds which have been identified as requiring
management for production of surface water include: Managua - Rio Mico; Matagalpa - Rios
San Francisco and Molino Norte; San Rafael del Sur - Rio Jesus; Nueva Guinea - Rio Zapote;
Ocotal - Rio Dipilto; Boaco - Rio Fonseca; and Puerto Cabezas - Rios Taupi and Braquiria.
Those identified as requiring management for groundwater include: Chinandega - Rio Acome;
Santo Tomas - Rio Cuipar; and Bluefields - Rio Escofran.
Potable water. About 20% of the rural population versus 79% of the urban
population have access to potable water (NEAP, 1994). In comparative terns, the percentage
of persons with access to potable water in Nicaragua is the lowest in Central America. Over
80% of rural households suffer from contaminated water (World Bank, 1992. SAR Social
Investment Fund)
Water quality. There are no systematic data regarding water quality therefore a
comprehensive overview of the problems cannot be given. What is known about the
dimensions of water quality consists of:
(1) Lake Managua. The lake comprises the worst case of contamination in the
country. Apart from the natural salinization process which the lake is
undergoing, other causes of diminishing water quality include: the direct
discharge of sewage, industrial wastes, agrochemicals (both from use and



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 4 of 12
manufacture), effluents from the Momotombo Geothermal Plant, garbage
dumping on the lakeshores and sediment inflows. It is estimated that over 40
tons of mercury have been discharged into the lake in the last 20 years. Other
lakes reportedly suffering from serious contamination include the Lagunas
Tiscapa and Masaya. Water quality of Lake Managua is being handled
through an IDB project currently under preparation.
(2) Industrial contamination. One of the potentially most serious problems in
the country is associated with Laguna Asososca, which is an important water
supply for Managua. Apparently the laguna receives water from the aquifer
which lies below the industrial zone between Laguna Asososca and Lake
Managua. The aquifer has been contarninated by industrial discharges thus
affecting water quality in the laguna. Relatively good data exists on the
physico-chemical and bacteriological status of the laguna.
(3) Agrochemical contamination. The high rates of pesticide usage in some
agricultural areas, especially the (current and past) cotton growing areas, has
resulted in agrochemical residues in both groundwater and surface water. In
the Pacific zone around Chinandega, El Viejo, El Realejo y Le6n levels of
nitrate nitrogen in groundwater exceed 40 mg/It (or 4 times the amount
allowed in the United States). In the Pacific and Central zones, the
agrochemical contamination of surface water is reported for the rivers Esteli,
Grande de Matalgalpa, Jinotega-Apanas, Acome, Chiquito, Oro, Fonseca,
Mayales and San Juan. The Jinotega and Matagalpa rivers, in addition,
receive significant levels of direct discharges from coffee processing.
(4) Sediment. Accelerated erosion caused by inappropriate land use practices is
reported in all parts of the country. No empirical data is available. Impacts
are reported in all estuaries, lakes and river courses. Sediments would be a
major vehicle for transport of agro-chemicals to water bodies.
(5) Urban Areas. Fecal contamination, non-point source pollution from
agriculture, industrial effluents and deficiencies in the wastewater systems are
the main problems. Managua, among all urban areas, has the greatest
problems.
(6) Mining. The rivers Tunky (or Sucio), Mico, Maiz and Tecomapa are
reported to be contaminated by cyanide and other heavy metals as a result of
mining and processing activities.
(7) Saltwater intrusion. Overexploitation of groundwater in some of the westem
parts of the country (e.g. Chichigalpa, Chinandega, Corinto, and Poneloya)
has caused saltwater intrusion as far as I Okm inland from the coast.



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 5 of 12
Coastal Zone and Fisheries
In Nicaragua three of Central America's five largest rivers feed a unique system of
bays and lagoons which serve as critical breeding habitat for major commercial species (e.g.
shrimp and lobster). On the Pacific side, sedimentation and agrochemical residues (e.g. in
Estero Real in the Gulf of Fonseca) are potentially effecting the wild shrimp populations which
breed in these waters. On the Caribbean side rich coral and sea grass resources (one of the
largest sea grass areas in the world) exist which are habitat for the endangered manatee and
almost one-half of the Atlantic's population. The commercial and biodiversity values of these
areas are perhaps the highest in Central America. Priority issues include the fishery, shrimp
culture and mangroves:
Fishery. Fishing pressures are known to be increasing while adequate data is not
available either on the magnitude of the catch nor on the carrying capacity of the resource.
The fishery is little diversified and thus the majority of fishing efforts are concentrated on a
few species (sea bass, lobster, green sea turtle, shark and red snapper). There is some
indication that the shrimp catch along the Pacific coast and the lobster catch along the
Caribbean have reached their limits. In addition, the unregulated use of fish traps and the high
loss of non-target species caused by shrimper's nets are thought to be significant factors
contributing to the observed declines in marine fauna populations.
Shrimp culture. The expansion of shrimp culture is thought to have little
scientific base and to potentially be destroying coastal habitat with unknown effects on zones
which are extremely important as breeding grounds for both marine and avifauna. It is feared
that uncontrolled expansion of shrimp culture will begin along the Caribbean coast in those
areas which are critical breeding habitat for six commercial species of (wild) shrimp.
Mangroves. The main area of mangrove loss is along the Pacific coast. The
losses are the results of: (a) harvesting fuelwood and timber for local use; and (b) shrimp
culture, both from clearing and ponds creating changes in water levels and salinity.
Biodiversity
Less is known about the biodiversity values of Nicaragua than any other Central
American country. Ten principal ecosystems have been identified and described; the
identification work, however, is not necessarily complete. Information on biota is highly
uneven. Some 1,200 species or an estimated 95% of vertebrates have been identified, whereas
an estimated 65% of plant species have been identified (8,550 species with 56 endemic
species). The list of saltwater fish (311 Pacific species and 305 Atlantic species), mollusks
(2,000 species), corals (42 species), and plants (107 algae species and 5 sea grasses) and of
freshwater fish (46 species with II endemic) is considered to be almost complete. The lists of
terrestrial invertebrates is extremely weak and the only insect and mycological information
available is on those with economic importance to the agricultural sector. Specific, priority
issues include loss of biodiversity, habitat loss and protected areas.
Loss of biodiversity. The primary causes of species and ecosystem loss are the
same as those driving deforestation with the addition of conmmercial harvesting pressures to



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 6 of 12
supply a growing local and intemational market with specimens and products from wildlife. It
is estimated that 2% of terrestrial vertebrates are in danger of extinction and 10% are currently
threatened. The agricultural frontiers to the north and east are the most dynamic zones of loss.
Habitat loss. The overwhelming majority of tropical dry forest habitat has already
been lost as these areas were the initial zones cleared for livestock and some annual crop
cultivation. Only remnants of this forest type still exist within the Pacific zone. Little
information is available on mangrove habitat and trends in loss. Pressure on mangrove may be
increasing in the westem coastal zone areas near the Honduran border where development of
shrimp culture is of interest (Coastal resources).
Protected areas. Within the approximately 3.4 million hectares of land which
have undergone little modification from human influences there are about 2 million hectares
which are considered in the NEAP to be worthy of protection within the protected areas
system. To date over 85% of this 2 million hectares lies within 71 legally constituted protected
areas; legally constituted by presidential decrees, not by a protected areas system law. Among
these 71 areas are: a) 0.06 million hectares under active protection and/or management; b) 0.25
million hectares under some minimal protection scheme; and iii) the remainder without
management plans, without management activities of any kind, and without any personnel to
guard or monitor the area. The other 1.4 million hectares are classified as production forest or
potential agricultural lands. Under the General Environrnent Law of 1996 new protected areas
will need to be approved by law.
2. LEGISLATION, STRATEGIES AND INSTITUTIONS
Legal Framework
The national environmental action plan (neap) notes that the laws and policies
governing ownership and use of natural resources are out-dated, disjointed and incoherent.
The most critical need is passage of legislation and/or regulations covering eleven natural
resources and related themes: environment, forestry, mining, fisheries, biodiversity, protected
areas, pollution, water, soil conservation, coastal zone management, indigenous land and
natural resources issues, and municipal and autonomous governments. Nicaragua has made
important efforts to rationalize the legal framework for natural resources; the general
environment law was ratified by the national assembly in April 1996. Various laws are in
draft form or already under discussion in the national assembly (the fisheries law, the mining
law, the energy law and the pollution law).
Natural Resources Strategies
In spite of the legislative bottlenecks noted above, some progress has been made
recently in developing a national strategy for the environment and natural resources:
Presidential Decree 246-92 approved (1) the National Forestry Action Plan (TFAP); (2) the
National Strategy for Conservation and Sustainable Development (ECODESNIC); (3) the
Strategy for Environment and Land Use Planning (EOAT). The National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP) was approved by Presidential Decree 261-93 on December 3, 1993.



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 7 of 12
Between them, these plans and strategies provide a reasonable framework within which
priorities have been established for investment and institutional development and that is
consistent with the decentralization agenda to be supported (see Table A2. 1).
Table A2.1. Thematic Priorities For Environment and Natural Resource Management
SOURCE                             THEMATIc PRIorr s, BY REGION`
(NOTE: ORDER DOES NOT SIGNIFY PRIORTY)
L FAP    I) Natural                              vm                           IX
|  TFAP    l ) Natural Forest Mgmt. -  1) Natural Forest Mgmt. - halt  i) Natural Forest Mgmt. -
tropical dry forest        advance of ag. frontier by   halt advance of ag. frontier
2) Fuelwood & Energy -     mgmt. of broadleaf forest not in  by mgmt. of broadleaf forest
increase use efficiency from    bio. reserves & prot. areas.  not in bio. reserves & prot.
1 0% to 15%; estab. fuelwood  2) Fuelwood & Energy -    areas.
plantations.               charcoal production.         2) Fuelwood & Energy -
3) Forest Ecosystem &      3) Forest Ecosystem & Biodiv.  none.
Biodiv. Con. - cons. & mgmt. Con. - community forestry dev.  3) Forest Ecosystem &
of mangroves.              in SI-A-PAZ.                 Biodiv. Con. - conmmunity
4) ForestrylLand Use -     4) Forestry/Land Use -       forestry dev. in SI-A-PAZ.
community agroforestry, Le6n agroforestry at ag. frontier.  4) Forestry/Land Use -
agroforestry at ag. frontier.
NEAP,   I) Ag. intensification.      1) Advance of ag. frontier.  I) Advance of ag. frontier.
Regional  2) Silvi-pasture.           2) Conservation Areas, Indio-   2) Conservation Areas, Indio-
3) Imp. livestock mgmt.   Maiz & Cerro Silva.           Maiz.
4) Conservation Areas,     3) Broadleaf forest mgmt.    3) Broadleaf forest mgmt.
Maribios Mtn. Range.                                    4) Ag. intensification.
5) Perennial crops.                                     5) Imp. livestock mgmt.
6) Agroforestry.                                        6) Perennial crops.
7) Agroforestry.
NEAP,   Prioritv Level I:
National   1) Reforestation
2) Environmental Education (formal and informal)
Priority Level II:
1) Capacity building and technical assistance
2) Potable water
3) Strengthening of service providers
Priority Level HI:
I) Decentralization of responsibility to municipalities
2) Forest management
3) Watershed management planning
4) Formation of civil groups to enhance environmental protection
** - Region II - Depts. of Le6n and Chinandega; Region VII - R.A.A.S.; Region IX - Dept. Rio San Juan
Natural Resources Institutions
Rural Development. The National Agricultural Council (CONAGRO) was
created in 1993 by presidential decree to coordinate policies and activities between the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Institute of Natural Resources (IRENA, now MARENA), and the
Institutes of Agrarian Reforn and Agricultural Technology (INRA and INTA). Since 1994
CONAGRO has grown in importance, having assumed the role of key coordinating GON
structure for rural development and has placed high on its agenda issues relating to the



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 8 of 12
management of natural resources. INRA (Instituto Nicaraguense de Reforma Agraria) is the
institution in charge of titling lands. It is being supported by the IDA's Agricultural
Technology and Land Titling and Land Management Project (Credit No.2536-NI) and plans
during the project to award about 25,000 titles in the Pacific, Northern and Central regions.
INTA (Instatuto Nicaraguense de Tecnologia Agropecuaria) is the institution in charge of
research and extension. It is also being supported by IDA Credit No. The PNDR (Programa
Nacional de Desarollo Rural) was recently created as a result of an IDB project of the same
name. The focus of the PNDR was initially on the Central region of Nicaragua, but since then
it has absorbed various donor financed rural development projects that were spread out
through several institutions, namely MAG and MARENA. MAG has seen its role weakened
following the proliferation of specialized institutes and programs. A draft Law on the
Organization, Competencies and Procedures of the Executive Branch of Government (Proyecto
de Ley de Organizaci6n, Competencias y Procedimientos del Poder Ejecutivo) is being
discussed in the National Assembly. In this law the proposed mission of the MAG would be
(1) to manage the agriculture development policy; (2) to promote crop diversification; (3) to
develop agriculture crop zoning; (4) to cooperate in plans and programs for environmental
protection; (5) to establish agricultural schools; (6) to promote the competitiveness of
agricultural production; (6) to collaborate in industrialization and commercialization of
agricultural products; and (7) to manage fitosanitary controls.
Natural Resources and Environment. In January 1994, a new Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA) was created out of the former IRENA by
Presidential Decree 1-94. It now has the authority to: (1) coordinate and direct all public
policy towards natural resources; (2) promote sustainable use of natural resources; and (3) to
propose laws, regulations, standards and strategies for sustainable use and protection of
natural resources and the environment through participatory processes. Currently, MARENA
is, together with INIFOM, one of the first six institutions of Government participating in the
reestructuring contemplated in the Institutional Development Credit. This credit would support
the streamlining of MARENA and the strengthening of its basic functions including financial
management, functional structure and personnel and administration. Recommendations
already under implementation include the reorganization of the Ministry into three inter-
disciplinary directorates (Policy and Strategy, Regulation and Control, and Interinstitutional
Relations) and the devolution of some natural resource projects to the PNDR and
municipalities, along with appropriate technical assistance to strengthen municipal capacity.
The main activities to be financed by the Institutional Development Credit are the following:
(1) institutional reorganization including redefinition of mission, objectives, functions,
organization and administrative procedures; (2) implementing a system for coordinating
externally financed projects; (3) improvement of project management; and (4) develop and
implement a strategy for information technology. In 1996 a new General Environment Law
created the National Environment Comnuission, headed by MARENA, in charge of
coordinating environmental activities and an Environment Fund, to channel resources for the
environment.
Enforcement Agencies. The General Environment Law of 1996 created an Office
of Environmental Affairs in the General Attomey's Office. Additionally, prior to this legal
development which has not yet materialized with the necessary appointments and funding the
Armed Forces and the National Police have been assuming an increasing role in matters of



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 9 of 12
environmental and natural resources legislation. The Armed Forces includes in its statutes
(C6digo de Organizaci6n, Jurisdiccion y Previsi6n Social Militar; Ley 181 de 02.09.94)
supporting the branches of the executive with natural resource conservation and renovation,
improving the environment and ecological equilibrium and collaborating in the strategic plans
established by the President, which include the Tropical Forestry Action Plan and the National
Environmental Action Plan. In March 1995 MARENA and the Armed Forces signed an
interinstitutional agreement (Convenci6n Interinstitucionalpara la Conservac6n delMedio
Ambiente y Uso Sostenible de los Recursos Naturales MARENA-EPS, 29 de Marzo de 1995)
which defines the areas and mechanisms of coordination between the two institutions. Under
this agreement the Armed Forces agreed to include in its annual operating plans activities
ranging from monitoring of protected areas to the control of illegal trade of wildlife. The
National Police executes orders issued by the authorities and in particular by MARENA in the
natural resources and environmental areas. The National Police has signed a special
agreement with the Ministry of Health through which the police assumed the role of sanitary
inspectors. A similar agreement for the control of illegal logging is being discussed with
MARENA. Neither the Armed Forces nor the National Police have any special training on
natural resources and environmental aspects and this is considered a major constraint that
prevents these institutions from assuming the roles contained in the agreements they subscribed
to.
Other Environmental Institutions. A number of other institutions intervene in the
natural resources and environmental areas. The Ministry of Health has responsibilities over
water contamination. INAA (Instituto Nicaraguense de Acuaductos y Alcantarrillados)
regulates water use, proposes the establishment of water reserves in collaboration with
MARENA and cooperates with the Ministry of Health on water pollution. The National
Commission of Hydrological Resources (Comisi6n Nacional de Recursos Hidricos), which
depends from the President of the Republic, is in charge of water policy and solving water use
conflicts. The Ministry of Construction and Transport, together with MARENA, has
responsibilities over oil and other fossil fuels pollution. The National Ports Corporation
(Empresa Nacional de Puertos) and the General Directorate of Aquatic Transportation
(Direcci6n General de Transporte Acudtico), together with MARENA, oversee contamination
by ships. The Ministry of Agriculture and MARENA oversee issues of soil conservation. The
Ministry of Agriculture, MARENA, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Construction and
Transport, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Finance (Customs) and the municipalities all have
responsibilities over agro-chemical contamination, a very serious problem in Nicaragua, in
particular in the cotton rich area of Le6n and Chinandega. Until recently Nicaragua was the
largest producer of DDT in Central America and although DDT is now banned, problems of
contamination by this and other substances persist and are considered a serious health hazard
and one of the most critical environmental issues in the country. The Ministry of Economy is in
charge of issuing licenses and concessions for the fishery, mining and forestry, but MARENA
has a control and monitoring role over both the fishery resource and forests and contamination
from mining. The Nicaraguan Fisheries Corporation is in charge of fisheries policy.
3. NATURAL RESOURCES ISSUES IN THE PROJECT AREA
Some 1.7 million of Nicaragua's 4.2 million people live in rural areas. Among
these rural inhabitants, 55% live in poverty and another 20% live in extreme poverty (IDA



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 10 of 12
Poverty Assessment, 1993). For rural people, the natural resources sector (including
agriculture) provides the main opportunities for income generation and employment. Currently
agriculture provides about 90% of employment for an estimated 420,000 persons.
Relative to other economic sectors, the agricultural sector has the lowest individual
income and wages. Agricultural employment is highly correlated with poverty. Despite
limited economic opportunities, the number of persons seeking a livelihood from natural
resources based sectors (including agriculture) has increased. With unemployment at 13%
nationally and underemployment estimated at 44%, the natural resources based sectors serve
as the "employer of last resort"; they are a social safety net where the exploitation of natural
capital subsidizes the survival of the poor and unemployed.
The combination of rural poverty and lack of altemative employment is expressed
on the environment through:
(1) increasing soil degradation from deforestation ' followed by the conversion of
forest lands to marginal livestock and agricultural uses and from the lack of
integration of conservation practices into land uses;
(2) increasing degradation of forest and biodiversity resources due to the
expansion of the agricultural frontier, non-application of control and
management systems in all types of exploitations (fuelwood, poles, timber,
hunting, harvesting of secondary products, etc), and inadequate protection of
parks and reserves;
(3) ongoing deterioration of water resources due to watershed degradation,
sediment loading, lack of treatment of effluent (urban, agroprocessing,
mining), and over-pumping of groundwater; and
(4) over-fishing and destruction of mangroves for domestic purposes and shrimp
pond construction.
Two regions where this situation is of particular concern are: (1) the former cotton
production areas of the Pacific (Departments of Le6n and Chinandega) where the decline of
cotton production has eliminated the region's major employer and forced many ex-agricultural
laborers and their children to turn to subsistence farming seeking land in areas of fragile
natural resources or to migrate to cities; and (2) along the agricultural frontier in the Atlantic
in the Departments of Rio San Juan, Chontales and Jinotega and in RAAS and RAAN. In the
latter, many ex-combatants and displaced persons have moved to the agricultural frontier in
search of lands and livelihood. A significant percentage of the poorest households are female
headed. Many of the rural householders are "new" farmers having had little or no previous life
experience as agriculturalists. Also in the Atlantic, climatic and soil conditions are sufficiently
different from those in Nicaragua's other agricultural regions that even experienced farmers
coming there are at a disadvantage.
2 _ In the Pacific zone much of the deforestation is historic, however there is yet ongoing degradation
of the remnant forest areas for domestic uses (timbers, poles, fuelwood). As the remaining Pacific
forests are generally those found in protected areas, upper watersheds, and coastal zones (mangroves),
the value of the environmental services which they perform as wildlife and breeding habitat and
watershed protection are still significant both locally and internationally (i.e. Golfo de Fonseca and
the forests of the Cordillera Volcanica Central).



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 11 of 12
The project area thus comprises 32 municipalities in the Departments of
Chinandega and Le6n in the Pacific and Departments of Rio San Juan, RAAS and RAAN in
the Atlantic zone (see Table Al.9 for list of municipalities already selected for the program
and Maps in Annex 12). During the project's annual reviews the possibility of extending the
project to RAAN and parts of the Department of Jinotega and Chontales would be considered.
Within the 32 municipalities are located a total of 1,498 communities (1,283 in the Pacific
zone and 215 in the Atlantic zone). Total rural population (i.e., potential beneficiaries) of the
32 municipalities is about 477,000 persons (60,000 persons in the nine municipalities selected
in the Atlantic).
Table A2.2 Municipal Consultations: Perceptions of Problems and Needs
Perception of    Perception of    Perception of main   Perception of
main             main socio-      institutional       sectoral priority
Region       environmental    economic         problems            for investments
.   problems **  problems
Pacific    Deforestation -    Unemployment-    Unclear           Mgmt.Nat.Res.-
37%              42%              responsibility - 29%   29%
Erosion - 18%    Lack of credit -    Poor inter-instit.  Infrastructure -
Fire- 13%        21%              coordination-24%    28%
Solid Waste -    Health - 19%     Non-enforcement of   Ag.Production-
10%                               laws - 21%          19%
Research/
Education - 16%
Atlantic    Deforestation -    Unemployment-   Poor inter-instit.  Mgmt.Nat.Res.-
29%              29%              coordination - 27%    25%
Water quality -    Lack of credit -    Unclear        Infrastructure -
18%              21%              responsibility - 25%   20%
Fire - 13%       Education - 15%    Non-enforcement of   Ag.Production-
Water supply -    Health - 13%    laws - 24%          19%
10%                                                   Research/
Education - 18%
Aggregate   Deforestation -    Unemployment-    Unclear           Mgmt.Nat.Res.-
33%              36%              responsibility - 27%   25%
Water quality -    Lack of credit -    Poor inter-instit.  Infrastructure -
13%              21%              coordination - 26%    20%
Erosion - 13%    Health - 16%     Non-enforcement of   Ag.Production-
Fire - 13%       Education - 11%    laws - 22%        19%
Solid Waste -                                         Research/
10%                                                   Education - 18%
* - the percentage figures refer to the percentage of workshop attendees identifying that particular item as the
highest priority for project intervention.
Demand for Subprojects
Municipal and NGO priorities. A series of municipal-level consultations'3 were
held to define local perceptions of need and the specific demands that existed for subprojects in
3 - A total of five workshops were held in which all project municipalities participated. Some 180
individuals from local government, NGOs, universities, projects and government line agencies
attended.



Annex 2
Background: Natural Resources Issues and the Project Area
Page 12 of 12
the context of natural resources and rural development (see Tables A2.2 and A2.3). The
consultations confinned the existence of demand for a coherent set of activities relevant to the
project's priorities for poverty alleviation and natural resource management.
Beneficiary priorities. Community priorities differ somewhat from municipal and
NGO priorities in that beneficiaries favor production oriented community projects rather than
public goods. Community priorities, which were estimated in the rapid rural appraisals carried
out as part of the Social Assessment exercise are summarized in Annex 3.
Table A2.3. Municipal Consultations: Summary of Demand for Subprojects
% Total   |% Total Cost,
Number        Cost, by     All Subprojects
Subprojects, Categories and Types       Presented      Category   |
L Environmental Protection     (Subtotal)       24           100%/     L      38%
1. Watershed Protection                         1 1          48%              18%
1.2 Coastal Zon; Management                     3            18%              7%
1.3 Mangrove Conservation                       I             1%              <1%
1.4 Integrated Pest Management                  I             10%             4%
1.5 Reforestation                               3            17%              6%
1.6 Applied Research & Studies                  5             6%              2%
IL Rural Infrastructure        (Subtotal)       23           100%            25%
2.1 Rehabilitation, 2nd Roads                   6             55%             14%
2.2 Agroproc./Commercialization Facilities      5            24%               6%
2.3 Potable Water                               3             1%              <1%
2.4 Electrification                             2             7%              2%
2.5 Irrigation & Drainage                       1             1%              <1%
2.6 Municipal Protection Works                  2             9%              2%
2.7 Other                                       6             3%              1%
m. Productive Investments     (Subtotal)        33           100%             26%
3.1 Biomass Energy Plantations                  1             1%              <1%
3.2 Informal Credit                             8            47%              12%
3.3 Microenterprises                            8             13%             3%
3.4 Ecotourism                                  6             7%              2%
3.5 Other (livestock, ag inputs, perennial crops,  10        32%              8%
etc)
IV. Training and Extension    (Subtotal)        13           100%             11%
4.1 Training (natural resource mgmt.)           2             1%              <1%
4.2 Environmental Education                     1            <1%              <1%
4.3 Ag. and Forestry Extension                  2            34%              4%
4.4 Institutional Strengthening (administration,  8          65%              8%
management for municipalities & NGOs)
TOTAL         95      l                     100%
Note: Subprojects and subproject costs are indicative onlv, they represent unappraised project proposals from
eligible groups in project municipalities; categories represent those included in the survey and are not entirely
consistent with the project's eligible categories.



NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 3
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT:
POVERTY, GENDER AND INDIGENOUS ISSUES IN THE WESTERN REGION'
1. BACKGROUND
The Nicaraguan govemment used several consultative and participatory mechanisms
to prpare the project, including a series of workshops with non-governmental-organizations
(NGOs), community representatives, local governments and local leaders. From the outset
thiese takeholders provided important contributions to the design of the project. In addition,
prcuect prepamtion included a Social Assessment (SA) in the Departments of Le6n and
Chnandega, which are the project target areas during its first phase of implementation. The
SA was carried out between May and September 1995, with support from the FLAHS Fund.
And it included a special investigation of the indigenous group Sutiaba. The next step is to
eend the SA to the Atlantic region and include in it an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan,
to be conpleted before the GEF supported component and activities in RAAS and RAAN are
iniated.
The main objectives of the SA were to: (1) identify key stakeholders; (2) identify who
are the rural poor and what their living conditions are; (3) understand the views of the poor on
the causes of poverty and how to overcome them; (4) understand existing fanning systems and
te particular constraints under which farmers operate; (5) evaluate the main needs and
obstades to income generation among the poor; (6) evaluate the linkages between poverty and
anironment degradation; (7) assess the degree to which the rural poor are organized in NGOs
and/or in Community Based Organizations (CBOs); (8) assess the strength of local
organizations and the kind of services the rural poor obtain from them; (9) evaluate the
stakeholder's perceptions of local governments; (10) evaluate key gender issues and how the
project should address them; and (11) make recommendations on how to eluimnate/mitigate
risks, stabilize migration and strength the capacity of community organizations to better deliver
project services.
The SA included a study of the Sutiaba indigenous group, which is located in the
Department of Le6n. The Sutiabas are a mixture of an ethnically diverse population coming
from different areas of Le6n and rest of the country. Although the majority of residents have
Subtiaba ancestry, many others are not Subtiaba descendants but consider themselves Sutiaba.
This summary is based on background documents produced by Marcia Leite Ariera (consultant,
poverty), Mari Lisbeth GonzAlez (consultant, indigenous people), Marvin Ortega (consultant,
rapid rural appraisal) and Maria Correia (gender specialist, LA2NR). Social Assessment
Coordinator for the project is Valeria Pena (LATEN).



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 2of22
These people share the Sutiabas cultural traditions and their claims to communal land
property.
,--i1 ,a"a Sources and Rsultsdf t          a  Assesmet
. . ap. d         .a ....t..an.d Ci e.te or::t withrlo
ineviwngZ9 nii duals, h   icb:tli teSbiab idgeo   ep,interevg -99  i-3:0
the populat oa and househoi,ds of the regions~ and basicinfrasrctueavailable in tfie area.:::- - ;-
The -    :           i  ::X--  : Ri,pro i':di f . ma-o'   o:   (1)::   loca    tr diio s    cutu e  an   so i e o o i  or:ganization:-E;' ''
,, i ....     ,......,   .-'                                                     :--.....  .....    ..........     .;' 
(2) s.cture l      community, esg  eadership and theextent ot.eir inflence; (3): loc
tesgo.         the. ss toaFdtco on          r       es,includig lan tnes.ystms
wae:. oet a.d pasoiturrsure  ihts, (4) gederroles (5) eniomna a.d develpmn
prbems; (6)oGanztinoflaorandprouton pocss () cni    ty ecpton of floca
governments;:and (8) how pvey is interprete1dby the poor and:how they view the possibilities of
overcomeiTheainobectesofth             frtheSuba......Igeno           were to: 1)id
a itoi ovrve ad an analsis o         'tescieooi codtin of th XSubs,-includn an :f:$
culturas:  an.:he dsi  lega  gfacuza.hongand of lan.d ownership; from :social, -' : .:-
economic,:perspectives;arnd (2) a;ssess te':potential of the Suaba communtyto:ti:
.engag  n effcveypartcip at  tepoe inth projec -t. 0:;-; -E;;::  :; :;;;T 
2. SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OF THE PROJECT AREA
Project Stakeholders
The primary stakeholders of the project are: (l) small farmers and other rural
poor-both men and women; (2) other farmers; (3) children and youth; (4) commnunity based
organizations; (5) the Subtiaba indigenous group; (6) NGQs; (7) municipal governments; and
(8) central government agencies. With the exception of some central government agencies it is
expected that all stakeholders will gain from the project. Some central government agencies, in
particular in the rural sector, could oppose the project since decentralization would somewhat
reduce their power.
General Economic and Demographic Features
The agricultural land in Leon and Chinandega used to be the most fertile of the
country-both areas were major producers of corn, beans and fruits. Since the 1950s,
however, production shifted towards export commodities like cotton, sugar cane and bananas.
The shift in production caused a loss of soil fertility over the long-In due to inappropriate
technzologies and over reliance on agrochemicals. The civil war, political conflict, returning
refugees, decreasing export crop prices, inflation and environrnental degradation have since
contributed to produce a decline in the living standards of the population. With a



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 3 of 22
proportionately large share of the national population (17 percent), the Western region of
Nicaragua today shares a relatively high percentage of both the poor and the extreme poor of
the country, 16 percent and 17 percent respectively. Within the region, about half of all
households and seven tenths of all rural households fall below the poverty line.
Graph AS.2 Western Region: Urban and Rural Poverty
1200
~aoo
Goo
600
400                                                               AREA
h 200 o
P;ar                          Non.Poor
Poor and Non-Poor
The Department of Le6n has ten municipalities and a population of about 423,000
whose livelihood is mainly derived from agriculture and livestock. The Department of
Chinandega consists of 13 municipalities and has a population of about 373,000, which relies
primarily on agriculture. In both departments, about half the population live in rural areas. As
is common in poor regions, the population of the Western Region is young and younger than
Nicaragua's population as a whole-45.4 percent of the population consists of pre-school-age
and school age children under 14 years of age. About one fifth of the population is less than
six years old.
The adult population is predominantly female. About 25 percent of all households are
single headed and of those more than four fifths are headed by women. Differences in poverty
levels among single headed households are also apparent. In the rural Western Region, 75
percent of single headed households are poor, compared to 70 percent of conjugally headed
families. Moreover, as shown by the RRA, rural households headed by women are associated
with very small properties, smaller than three and a half hectares.2
Because labor is the most important asset of the poor, households become poorer as
the number of working age adults decreases in relation to the number of dependents. The
dependency ratio3 of the region, 0.84, is higher than the average ratio in rural areas (0.98).
Tne dependency ratio of the poor in the whole Western Region rises to 0.95. Households are
2 One manzana is equal to 0.74 hectares.
Number of children less than 12 years plus individuals over 60 years old divided by all other household
members.



Annex 3
Social Assesusmnt:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 4of22
more crowded in rural areas where poverty is greater: the average size of households is 5.4 in
the entire region, 3.2 in urban areas, and 5.7 in rural areas. The average size of households is
also higher among the poor and extreme poor: 6.8 in the whole Western Region and 6.7 in the
rural areas of the Western Region. Children make-up the majority of dependents.4 Children
make up a greater proportion of the population under the poverty line than among the non
poor.
Graph A5.1 Western Region: Children and Poverty
600 .
400'1
200'1
Chkln 0.14
O * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~074ymzod
Rzor                       NonFbor
Poor and Non-Poor
Land Tenure
Four types of farmers were identified in the RRA. Small farmers with holdings
smaller than 3.5 hectares constitute the first group-58 percent of farmers are in this category.
Approximately one third of these households are female single-headed families. These small
properties, are more frequently found in the municipalities of El Jacaral, Santa Rosa, Achuapa,
Larreynaga y Quezalaguaque in the Department of Le6n, and in the municipalities of
Morazon, Cinco Pinos, San Francisco, Santo Tomas, San Pedro and Posoltega, in the
Department of Chinandega. Farmers tend to produce for self consumption and survival and
sell any surpluses they may have in local markets. Productivity levels, however, are
T he proportion of individuals over 60 years old is very low: 0.05 in the region and 0.01 in the rural area.



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 5 of 22
constrained by the size of property, the absence of credit, and the low technology available.
These farmers have few or no trees close to the house and typically do not cultivate
vegetable gardens. Many farmers received land through the Sandinista agraran reform and
lack land titles, although the current Government is making efforts to provide secure titles.5
The second group-comprising some 29 percent of farmers-cultivate 3.5-15 hectares
of mostly corn, beans and sesame (ajonjoli). They also usually own a cow to produce milk for
household consumption. The female role is central in the survival strategies of this group,
since women sell domestic produce and are the primary household contact with the public.
A third group, about 8 percent, have larger properties and produce for the extemal
market, usually in association with livestock production. They are found in the municipalities
of El Viejo, Larreynaga, El Sauce, La Paz Central, Nagorote, Le6n, Chinandega, Somotilla,
and Villanueva. Although opportunities are limnited, smaller farmers are a source of labor for
these large farms.
Finally, a fourth group is composed of about 7 percent of farmers who are organized
in cooperatives created during the last decade. Usually, they combine work in the common
fields with work in their own land. Although women participate in cooperatives as family
laborers or as family members, they are often not formally recognized as cooperative members.
3. RURAL POVERTY
Living Conditions of the Poor
LSMS respondents in rural areas of the Westem region and SA participants were
distributed among 31 rural communities. The conditions of the 31 conmmunities are as follows:
*  2 have post offices
*  8 have paved roads leading to their communities
*  13 do not have access to motorized transportation
*  8 have a doctor and 6 a nurse, 13 do not have any doctor, nurse or midwife
* 4 have a pharmacy
* 5 do not have primary schools
* none of the commnunities have a daily market.
All respondents agreed that living conditions had not improved during the five years
previous to 1993. On the contrary, members of 26 communities believed that conditions had
worsened while the other five believed they have stayed the same. Absence of employment
opportunities, inflation, and high cost of living are the reasons given for this situation. In
Puerto Morazan it was reported during the RRA that "we are poorer now than before
because there are no sources of employment'" Very often, the pessimism is expressed in a
5 The Government is receiving support for land titling through IDA's Agricultural Technology and
Land Management Project.



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 6 of 22
kind of religious fatalism, for example, "There are many people saying that this is the will of
God", as was said in Chinandega.
Access to water and sanitation in the project area is inadequate, particularly among the
rural poor. Less than half all households in the Westem Region have piped in-house water, of
which 72 percent of non-poor and 7 percent are extremely poor. Urban residents have greater
access to piped water but differences between poor and non-poor are greater in these urban
zones. Seventy percent of urban households have piped water, of which almost four fifths are
non-poor and 3 percent are poor. The inequality between groups is less dramatic in rural areas
because so few have access to water: 70 percent of the extreme poor, 63 percent of the poor,
and 68 percent of the non-poor do not have in-house piped water in rural zones.
Access to sanitation services is even scarcer. Only about 20 percent of all households
in the Western region are connected to public sewer systems, most of them non-poor
households. The extreme poor simply do not have access to sanitation services. Even septic
tanks benefit only 7 percent of households. In rural areas of the Western Region, 99 percent of
households have no access to public sewer systems, septic tanks, or cesspools. All households
with access to any of these types of sanitation services are non-poor.
The Poor's Perceptions of the Causes of Poverty
According to the local rural population, three major factors cause poverty: lack of
employment, diminishing productivity and limited markets. Participants cited stagnant
agricultural and livestock activities as the main reasons for limited employment and income.
For those who own the land, productivity has diminished and there is no credit available.
Among landowners interviewed during the RRA, 83 percent had not received credit or financial
assistance during the year prior to the interview. Lack of extemal and internal markets
emerged as another primary reasons for poverty. As explained by a small farner in El Viejo,
"The peasants do not have seeds, do not have minimal agricultural inputs, there is no
credit, there is no one to whom to sell, someone who buys instead of robbing us."
Data from the LSMS confirm the people's evaluation of their own poverty.
Altogether, 56 percent of respondents reported not working in the seven days prior to the date
of the interview, and 51 percent reported not having looked for a job, which can be interpreted
as an indicator of hopelessness. Once again, differences between urban and rural areas are
striking. Of those who had worked, 60 percent were urban-based and 40 percent were from
rural areas. During the year prior to the LSMS, 50 percent reported not having worked and of
those who had worked, 81 percent were urban residents. Among those rural inhabitants who
consider themselves employed, 41 percent are self-employed.
Irrational natural resources management is not cited in the RRA as a cause of poverty
and low agricultural productivity. Although there is a broad recognition that this is a
constraint, environment degradation was overwhelmingly identified as a consequence of
poverty as opposed to a cause.
Male temporary migration is now a common feature of the region. Migration is
directed towards Costa Rica more often than to other rural areas of Nicaragua. According to a



Annex 3
Socil Assement:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 7of22
priest in El Jicaral, "As they do not have anything to work with, no seeds, many go to
Costa Rica, lately 2500 have gone. Many also look for work In Ledn, Chinandega and
Matagalpa because in El Jacaral there are nojobs, the banana production does not
provide them employment anymore and the quality of the land is now very bad". Male
outmigration puts a strong pressure on women who are left to care for households in conditions
of extreme disadvantage. Migration, which began as a coping strategy for the poor, often
results in the break down of the family and neighborhood patterns of solidarity.
BOX 2. Povertyad              t              iewsiof t  Psl
egas"~ Rnr4  orker in ::an   :]vr)M e
"a,"e'''""or,^.''t',,"'ff'.~ ~ s,i  g. 4'                 '           :
.. We know we are des   tih   on  b  siw we a.  so poor, ter..  .  i, no oh  wayP, x. 1ep.t
to gon detroyig it. Smal fameronmintEl Vijo Cinanae we
te ,c we , aa, S                                                        a-
Thect' tre  to sell th :logs. Buse t      money. To.' sgwthelan    e   ' to cut t
tda.fa rmr, T ica-.:-
Thu he'hlldre, don it come to school bec- se thieir parnt do't h  -the m's fo feed orM   ':e
them. .. -Dtor in thie Municipality o7lsillo..
Squrve: RRA ~ ~      ue:eyne pnei osw                n
aural Organizations
In the Western Region people believe that solidarity is an important mechanism to
overcome poverty. According to a participant of the RRA: "only people who belong to some
organization are able to be conscious, the rest of the population, where there are no
organizations, is inditferent'. About 40 percent of RRA participants belong to at least one
organization. Of those who are organized, 42 percent belong to a producer organization, such
as a cooperative; 31 percent to a religious organization; 12 percent to a comununity
organization; 6 percent to a development project; 6 percent to a political party; and 3 percent
to a union. The organizational system which prevails is very intricate, having as key actors
foreign governments and donors, local and international NGOs, and local communities. This
system probably provides the most important safety net for the rural poor as indicated by the
following examples:
*   "There is a Commission for the environment protection in Villanueva and
Somotillo, counting with the participation of Casa de la Mujer, the Asociaci6n de
Ganaderos, the Polos de Desarrollo and the Police" (RRA).
*   The Fondo para Chinandega Norte, which is funded by Switzerland, was
constituted with support from the Secretaria de la Mujer de Chinandega and



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 8 of 22
comprises more than 1000 women who, together with some NGOs, implement
several development projects.
In Chinandega, in the municipalities of Somotillo, Santo Tomas, Cinco Pinos,
San Pedro, San Francisco and Villanueva, the Commission de Desarrollo
Comarcal was formed and funds about ten projects with financial help from the
Swiss government.
According to the RRA, the most frequent organizational structures found in the area
are the following:
*  Comrtes comunales or comites comarcales operate at the level of municipality
and are usually initiated by the communities themselves. Members, who are
elected by the Community, usually consist of the midwife, the person in charge of
health services (brigadista de la salud), the teacher, a representative of the
municipality, and the priest. During the last decade, the Comites served as a
vehicle for demanding land. In Le6n, the Comites are the strongest and most
organized voice of local communities.
*  Cooperatives were organized during the last decade with the objective of pooling
resources, such as land and labor. Today about 61 cooperatives are active in the
area with 1,116 members, working 25,000 hectares of land.
*  Women groups, the most important of which are the Casas de Mujer, are spread
across some municipalities and linked to the National Organization of Women.
The focus of the Casas de Mujer is on professional training. They seldom work
on rural activities.
*  NGOs, are present in the entire region, particularly in Le6n, Chinandega,
Somotillo, El Sauce and El Viejo (refer to Annex I for details on NGOs).
*  Project Organizations such as: (1) Apoyo a la Actvidad Forestal Campesina de
Le6n, funded by Finland; (2) Proyecto de Conservaci6n y Manejo de Recursos
Naturales, funded by Holland and FAO; (3) Proyecto de Cultivos de Camarones
en Estanques, Puerto Morazon, funded by Christian Initiative of Munster
(Germany); and (4) Programa de Apoyo a la Conformaci6n de una Estrategia
de Desarrollo Alternativo para el Campesino Pobre, funded by Austria.
The Poor's Poverty Alleviation Priorities
Despite differences in access to formal education, men and women identify the same
priorities for alleviating their poverty. Support to agricultural subsistence activities was
overwhelmingly considered the highest priority amnong those interviewed by the RRA, followed
by access to health services and clean water (see Box 3.).
The Poor's Perceptions of Local Governments
Results of the RRA indicate that perceptions of local governments are mixed. While
most (75 percent) knew who was the mayor, 44 percent knew the council members, and 27
percent concurred that local governments consulted the population, many complained about
authorities. A common complaint was that although communities had been invited to



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 9 of 22
municipal meetings and workshops, these events lacked continuity and only a few people
participated. Others noted that not aUl communities participate in workshops. Those who said
that the municipal administration does not consult the population, cited lack of community
organization, politics and the mayor's incapacity as reasons.
Participants also acknowledge the limitations of local governments to respond to local
problems. Some participants recognized that the local administration tries to answer their
needs as demonstrated by one response: "they gave landfor twenty years, for reforestation
on a lifelong basis, as a response to community requests, therefore they listen to peasants
and to the community" (male commnunity member, Chinandega). Others thought that the
mayor did not make an effort to meet community demands: "he listens to them either through
their representatives or he sees them in his office, but he does not solve the problems"
(female conmmunity member, Le6n). Activities carried out at by the municipal administration
creates a certain awareness of local government. Fifteen percent of respondents said that the
mayor had helped them with land problems whereas about 20 percent had received help for
seeds. Thirty nine percent recognized municipal support for education, 37 percent for health
and 36 percent for road maintenance.
fox  . Te Por' Priorities orPovrt Allevitio
I S-. ppor.:- t to agrcultral. pSton. :.::23.1   ....    on
Spport to :ioVestock prodction- 2,3
Job-  .reatiob.n  -:5:.......--:::..:-50%-
Edcton                             89
i &oa--             -       :-      21.7%
Water                     ~~~~~~~137%
Swage136
:  -: :- - .- 1leCtriCIty            : : 7.70%
: nvironment                         3.0o
Roads                                5.0%
Traixing                      1.0%
Others                               6.7%
Total                              100.0%
Source: RRA
Participants provided ideas on project implementation mechanisms at the local level.
In terms of the best form of organization for articulating conmnunity demands, 43 percent
preferred a Comite Comarcal, 17 percent wanted a small committee, 11 percent preferred
small groups of interested people, 11 percent preferred individual interaction with municipal
government and 5 percent recommended cooperatives. On the subject of who should be
involved in key decisions regarding subproject approval, 53 percent indicated the mayor, 60
percent recommended council members, 87 percent proposed a local notable (priest, teacher,
nurse, etc.) and 72 percent suggested an NGO. An overwhelmingly number of participants,
(92 percent) said that a community representative should participate in such decisions.



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 10 of 22
4. GENDER ISSUES
Gender Roles and Priorities
While men's roles in the economy are well acknowledged, women play an important
role in the survival strategies of the poor not only through their partnership with men in
conjugal-headed households, but because they frequently live on their own, heading households
without a male partner. Studies in Nicaragua indicate that while rural men control productive
resources and land, women in poor households-both jointly and single headed-contribute
significantly to household income. Single headed female households depend exclusively on
women's income. Similarly, women in conjugal households are often responsible for providing
fbr the family during the agricultural off-season and periods of scarcity. Particularly when
fann and off-fhrm opportunities for men are restricted, women will resort to selling garden
products and small livestock, petty trading and domestic labor in order to sustain the family.
Women's crops are also a major source of family nutrients year round and therefore represent
a key element of the rural poor's survival strategies.
The survey showed that in terms of addressing poverty, support to agricultural
production is the highest priority of men and women, however, their agricultural technology,
extension and training needs will vary. A division of labor in agricultural and livestock
production exists in Nicaragua. Broadly speaking, basic grains and livestock are primarily the
domain of men while women are the dominant producers of horticulture products, fruits and
small livestock and play a secondary role in producing basic grains. Women also predominate
in marketing farm products.
Men and women use natural resources for different purposes and this, in tum, affects
their priorities and participation levels in environmental projects. The principal causes of
deforestation in the project area are felling for commnercial purposes, the expansion of
agricultural lands and hunting-which are typically male activities and hence male interests.
Women, in contrast, tend to be more concerned about domestic fuelwood. Water emerged as a
prirnary interest of both men and women but while domestic consumption was a female
concem, men showed greater interest in water for irrigation and production. Gender-based
interests in natural resources are reflected in participation rates in environmental projects
which tend to have intrinsic social goals and be domninated by women. Women's decision-
making roles on these projects, however, is usually less prominent than men's.
Gender Differences in Education
Female single-headed households are at disadvantage when it comes to education.
Education plays a central role in an individual's ability to move out of poverty and, therefore,
the fact that female heads of households are much less educated than males places female
single-headed households in a more vulnerable position. The gender inequality pattem is
pervasive in the Western region in which, for each educational level complete, male heads
outnumber women heads on a 2 to I basis up to the primary level and on a 4 to 1 basis from
the secondary level as graph 4 in the next page shows. The pattem of inequality is greater in
rural than in urban areas.



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Westem Region
Page 11 of 22
Gender and Participation in Rural Organizations
The SA indicates that men and women are involved in different forms of organization
with women participating to the greatest extent in service-oriented groups (religious and
community) and men predominating in producer organizations (UNAG, cooperatives and
unions). For example, men comprise 88 percent of members of agriculture and livestock
cooperatives in the region. Men also predominate in municipal governmen. in the region,
comprising 83 percent of mayors and 89 percent of the consejales. While a gender
breakdown of local government committees (comarcales) is not available, it is expected that
women's and men's involvement is more balanced given that these committees typically consist
of the local midwife, teacher and health worker as well as representatives of producer groups
and the church.
Graph A5.4 Western Region: Education Level of Heads of Households
200
1D0
Gerder of HH Head
0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ UMFoiae
N ForrTS    Rinrwy    S-ary   Mid-A.Te Tn   Urimsfty  CIhr
EdLL-ioad Level
A corollary of gender differences in organizations is that, relative to men, women will
have less access to information and resources because producer groups tend to be better
organized and have greater political clout. The SA supports this assertion. It showed that
overall men's participation in organizations was greater than women's and that membership in
organizations was associated with land tenure security and other resources. Women surveyed
also had less knowledge of their municipal leaders than men.



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Westem Region
Page 12 of 22
5. THE SUTIABAS
Who Are the Sutiabas?
The Sutiabas are one of thirteen Nicaraguan indigenous groups that claim a "native
background". In the words of a Sutiabas leader, "nativ background is the right that all of
us, native people, have, to respect our own culture and historical lraditions,fornm  of social
organization and the ownership of our communal land". The basis for the Sutiabas ethnic
identity is rooted in their kinship relationships, which provide social and ethnic cohesion. The
Sutiabas kinship system, however, has been eroded as a result of the changes that the country
has experienced through its history. Kinship is no longer restricted to the children of Sutiaba
fathers and mothers, but rather to the identification of individuals with Sutiabas values and
costumes. The migration of ladinos to the Sutiaba region, attracted by the possibility of
fanning communal lands since colonial times, allowed for a reinterpretation of kinship
networks to include the children of the ethnic nix which resulted from migration. Migration
also brought about acculturation, loss of control over communal land property, and periods of
violence resulting discrimination and from the predominance of ladinos.
Sutiaba History
Since Spanish colonization, the history of the Sutiabas is characterized by a permanent
tension on land rights and efforts on the part of Le6n landowners to take increasingly larger
tracts of traditional indigenous territories. Strategies to squeeze the Sutiaba's traditional land
rights included invading their lands, dissolving Sutiaba autonomous forms of economic and
social organization through national government legislation and promoting "ladinizacion" of
indigenous communities. Since the mid-18th Century, the Sutiabas have constituted an
independent political-administrative division of the city of Le6n. In 1850, with the introduction
of coffee plantations, the need for labor led the government to issue legislation on vagrancy and
mandatory labor which justified the forceful and massive recruitment of Indians for farm labor.
The introduction of cotton crops in the 1950s exacerbated tensions and violence.
Some battles have marked the Sutiabas political conscience and have became political
references which, in tum, have strengthened their ethnic identity. Intemal contradictions on the
most effective means of conducting such disputes, on the other hand, have weakened the
community to some extent.
Sutiabas Demographics
The Sutiaba population of about 36,000 constitutes 17 percent of the total population
in the Department of Le6n.6 The majority -approximately 23,000-live in urban areas and
the remaining 12,000 living in rural areas. Rural Sutiabas are spread over nine rural
comarcas which are also populated by non-Sutiaba residents. Rural residents currently
occupy an area of approximately 580 square kilometers, which represents a small fraction of
previous Sutiabas' territory.
' Census Population Projections, Ministry of Health, 1995.



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 13 of 22
Urban Sutiaba live in the traditional historical site of the Sutiaba pueblo, on the
westem side of the city of Leo6n and in twenty-four small urban settlements to the North, South
and West of the Sutiaba pueblo. The Governuent created these settlements in the mid-80s as
part of its overall strategy to counter military aggression originating in neighboring Honduras.
The municipal administration of Le6n, has been using the areas around the Sutiaba community
to establish settlements and absorb the city's natural urban growth. Such settlements
-although created without consulting the Sutiabas-are not a source of conflict because the
Sutiaba community has accepted the new settlers. Overall, it is estimated that around 15
percent of the urban population (approximately 3,500 residents) live in the settlements, with
the remainder living in the historical Sutiaba site.
Although the majority of residents have local Sutiaba ancestry, it common for all
dwellers in Sutiaba territory to identify themselves as indigenous Sutiabas, to share the
Sutiabas cultural traditions, and to make claims to communal land. Ninety-eight of RRA
participants identified themselves as indigenous Sutiaba, although only 71 percent have either
the father or the mother born in Sutiaba. The same percentage of women and men identified
themselves as indigenous Sutiabas, although there are more women (80 percent) than men (64
percent) with at least one Sutiaba parent.
The Sutiabas Land Claims
Presently, Sutiaba lands extend from the Northwest to the Southeast of the City of
Le6n, in the plains between the Maribios Mountains and the Pacific coast. The land is mostly
flat except south of the city of Le6n where slopes are steeper and elevations reach almost 150
meters above sea level. Two rivers, the Telica and the Chiquito cut the region. The Chiquito
River has been contaminated by domestic and industrial waste. Both rivers contain about 40
percent of all river water in the department. Statistical data on Sutiaba land and land
ownership is conflicting and disorganized. Different versions of what constitutes Sutiaba
property makes it difficult to deternine precisely which portion of the land belongs to the
conmmunity, which portion belongs to peasants and which portions were under the control of
other groups. The royal title in the hands of the indigenous community states that the land
belonging to the Sutiabas is equal to 63 "caoallerias" and 12 "atillos", ancient Spanish
measures about which there is no information on the corresponding area.
A key to understanding the Sutiabas land situation is the way land titles have been
distributed and are recognized. Within the 7,000 hectares which are under the direct control of
the conmmunity, many small farmners were given supplementary titles to land.. Only 11 percent
of small farmers recognze that the land they work is part of traditional communal lands.
Fewer than 15 percent of members of local cooperatives are Sutiabas, but these cooperatives
own between 27 and 30 percent of traditional Sutiaba lands (8,000 hectares).
Among rural and urban participants of the RRA, about 44 percent do not own any
property, 45 percent own some property, and the rest work on communal properties. Fifty
percent of land owners own less than 10 manzanas and the vast majority-89 percent-have
registered legal title to the property. Only 3 percent of Sutiabas farmers were cooperative



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Westem Region
Page 14 of 22
menbers. Eighty percent of urban Sutiabas do not own land and 6 percent are small
landowners with properties less than 3 manzanas.
The majority of Sutiabas live in poverty, have few resources for market production
and are exposed to climatic hazards. Farmers with properties of about 15 hectares who live
above the poverty line constitute only 8 percent of farmers. In rural areas, only 6 percent of
residents do not own any land but about 50 percent own properties smaller than 3.5 hectares
and live in extreme poverty. An important segment in rural areas are the 40 percent of
peasants with properties between 7-15 hectares. They are poor peasants who sell an important
part of their crops in the market and who, like their urban counterparts, are very vulnerable to
climatic changes.
Employment and Income Among the Sutiaba
Employment dynamics among the Sutiabas does not differ from the general trends of
the other poor in the Westem region. Unemployment is high and employment, when available,
is restricted to low paid and unqualified jobs. In the urban area, about 44 percent of
participants considered themselves as unemployed and about 20 percent did not have a
permanent job. In total about 65 percent of respondents in urban Sutiaba were unemployed or
held unstable jobs.
Women Sutiabas are restricted to professions such as commnerce, maid services,
teaching and nursing. The majority of Sutiabas women who do not work define themselves as
housewives rather than unemployed. According to one participant: "I haven 't had a job since
1990; Idon 't even lookfor ajob anymore because I can 'tfind any" (Sutiaba housewife). In
urban areas, the economically active population for women is the same as that of men.
Women also have lower incomes relative to men (a little over 50 percent of the price of a basic
food basket for women as opposed to 70 percent for men). The middle-level
technic4l/professional category for women in commerce is the only employment category that
has above average income levels, although these incomes are only close to the price of the
basic food basket. A significant proportion of women work as maids, which is one of the
lowest paid jobs in the economy. In rural areas, the situation for women is even more difficult
because they are not even recognized a farmers although most perform agricultural tasks
alongside men.
The majority of the rural-based economically active population works as small farmers
or rural workers. The latter are mostly seasonally employed for about 5 to 6 months a year.
All rural families grow basic crops such as beans and com usually on lands smaller than one
manzana. Quantities of food produced are not enough to sustain the family, a situation that
forces members of the family to seek alternate survival strategies such as selling firewood and
working as day laborers or in construction jobs in exchange for food.
The Sutiabas are organized in 18 cooperatives which sow about 2,600 hectares of
corn, beans and sorgo annually. The cooperatives, however, do not generate permanent work
year round for their members. Crops are grown using non-traditional technological levels and
generally occupy members 6 months every year, leaving them unemployed for the remaining 6
months.



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 15 of 22
The Sutiabas and the Environment
The Sutiabas have no experience managing forest areas nor has this concem been part
of their tradition in light of the more pressing need for survival. Sutiaba territory lacks
important forest areas except fbr a few patches of tropical dry woods. Forest destruction is
caused mostly by cutting for domestic and commercial firewood. Almost 82 percent of RRA
participants use firewood for cooking.
Social Organization Among the Sutiabas
Social capital among the Sutiabas is high-about 48 percent of RRA participants are
members of community organizations. Although gender differences are small, more men are
organized than women. The largest organization is the ndigenous Community; 55 percent of
RRA participants reported belonging to the Indigenous Community, of which a slightly higher
proportion were urban-based. The second most important form of organization are those
related to development projects-17 percent of participants claimed that they were members of
these types of groups.
The traditional Sutiaba organizations are the Junta Directiva de la Comunidad
Indigena, the Consejo de Ancianos, the Consejos Comunales, and the Juntas de
Cementerio. Characteristics of these organizations are as follows:
   The Junta Directiva is elected by popular vote for a two-year mandate, although
government regulations state that elections should be annual. As a result of the
economic, social and political changes that affected the ethnic composition of the
Sutiaba communities, the Sutiabas require only kinship as a basis for membership
in the community. Thus, voting rights are given to any individual who has been
residing in the comnmunity for more than seven years whenever they accept and
identify with the Sutiabas' indigenous values, even in the absence of Sutiaba
ancestry. From a political and administrative point of view, this is the
indigenous organization with the largest mandate, although it does not constitute a
pure form of autonomous local governrment. Both urban and rural Sutiabas are
under the jurisdiction of the municipality of Leon.
*   The Junta Directiva is not a traditional Sutiaba organization although it was
created by the Sutiabas to deal with issues related to the indigenous community.
Its origins relate to the Sutiabas process of incorporation in Le6n. Most likely the
organizational structure started as a mechanism promoted by government and
local landowners to counter indigenous land disputes which had been led by
traditional indigenous organizations like the Consejo de Ancianos. Basic
activities of the Junta Directiva are: mediating community relationships with the
city administration and the central government; administering community land;
coordinating activities with different indigenous organizations; and representing
the Sutiabas in the Coordination of Nicaraguan Indigenous Communities. It has
also promoted activities in the area of social, economic and cultural development.



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 16 of 22
But the Junta Directiva 's main asset in the moral authority won during land
disputes. The Junta is recognized by the Sutiabas as their moral and political
authority even though this role has been weakened in recent years by political
polanzation.
*   The Consejo deAncianos was the highest authority in the community before the
Spanish colonization and has remained so despite attempts by past governments
and colonial powers to weaken this organizational structure. The council
virtually disappeared in the first half of the twentieth century, but reappeared in
the 80s due to interest among the people and particularly the efforts of the Junta
Directiva. The Consejo de Ancianos is an autonomous moral authority with
approximately 35 members who are elders in the community. Members must be
born in Sutiaba, belong to old famnilies of conununal tradition, be recognized as
an advocate of communal land property, have been a member of the Junta
Directiva, and have an untarnished reputation.
*   The Consejos Comunales are neighborhood organizations with representatives
elected at the vicinity-level. Their rnain responsibility is to respond to social
demands of residents.
*   The Juntas de Cementerio are in charge of maintaining and managing five
community cemeteries as well as observing religious traditions and Holy Week
rituals.
Traditional productive organizations no longer exist among the Sutiaba. The
cooperatlvas, which are presently the most usual model of productive organization in the
community, emerged in 1979. Each of the 18 Sutiaba cooperatives has an average of 17
members, who are mostly urban based. Eleven of the cooperatives are part of the UCAIS
(Uni6n de las Cooperativas Indigenas de Sutiaba), which provide associate members with
technical assistance, storage, marketing and legal and bookkeeping advice. UCAIS has the best
capacity for economic management in the community.
In addition to the advice it provides to associate members, UCAIS operates a number
of other programs including a program for female farmers; the Asociaci6n de Ganaderos de
Sutiaba (ASOGASA), which is a small association of members who own lands outside the
Sutiaba territory limits; and the Fondo Revolvente de Credito Xuchiall, which is revolving
loan fund for productive activities. This fund was created by the Junta Directiva de la
Comunidad and the Nicaraguan Institute for Investigations and Popular Education (INIEP).
Until 1995, it had provided financing to 122 families, 79 percent of which were female single-
headed. A team of indigenous Sutiaba professionals manage the fund.
The two most important organizations that work with women and youth among the
Sutiabas are:
The Fundacion para el Desarrollo Integral de la Mujer Indigena "Xochitl
Acatl " which receives support from European funds and UNICEF to work



Annex 3
Social Asssmnt:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 17 of 22
with women. Funds support informal credit for poultry production, vegetable
gardens, cattle and reforestation. To this date, 47 female single-heads of
household have benefited from resources for productive activities. Funds also
offer educational programs in health, family planning, pre-natal and infant
care, and sanitation. In cooperation with the Universidad Nacional
Aut6noma and cooperating physicians, the Foundation supports clinical
activities which have benefited an average of 290 patients a month in
traditional medicine and 240 in non-traditional medicine. Other programs for
women and youth at risk include education in sexuality, fertility, sexually
transmitted diseases, solidarity and equality.
The Movimiento de J6venes Indigenas "Hringue Nidi Ruis" (Children of the
Sun) offers program in health, water, electricity, education, enviromnent,
culture and sports. Major sources of funding include UNDP and UNFPA for
the project on Recreation and Attention Centers for Sutiaba Adolescents
(CARAS).
Tlhe presence of non govermnental organizations in the Sutiaba territory is weak
except for the ones mentioned above. CARE, CIPRES and CEPAD also support small
susainable projects in water, agriculture and irrigation in a few districts.
6. CONCLUSIONS
The main conclusions of the Social Assessment are as follows:
(a)    Rural areas of the Western region show the poorest social indicators. In
contrast with urban areas, poverty in rural zones is greater, opportunities are
fewer, educational levels are worse, and there is less access to infrastructure
services. Health and education facilities, sanitation, roads, and access to
local markets are unsatisfactory in many areas.
(b)    Rural households are more crowded and have a higher dependency ratio than
in urban ones. The proportion of children in poverty is high in the entire
region, and higher in rural than in urban areas. Children are an at-risk
population group.
(c)    In the project area, the main gender issues are: (i) single-headed households,
which tend to be female, tend to be poorer than conjugally-headed households;
(iii) both men and women play a role in the survival strategies of the poor but
women have a particularly critical position because they are responsible for
most single-headed households and often provide for conjugally-headed
families during periods of scarcity; (iv) the gender division of labor on the
farm and in the household imply that technology, extension and training needs
among men and women vary; (v) men and women use natural resources
differently and therefore also have different priorities in environmental
activities; (vi) educational levels among women tends to be lower than among
men which, in tum, affects women's ability to participate in project activities;



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 18 of 22
and (vii) men and women have different forms of organization which affects
their access to information and resources.
(d)    The rural poor, including the Sutiaba rural poor, are predominantly small
farmers, often landless. Frequently, households live off properties of less than
3.5. Productivity is low and access to markets is difficult.
(e)    Two interrelated factors cause poverty: first, the small size of property
coupled with extremely low productivity from inappropriate technologies and
lack of financing; and second, the absence of off-farm employment
opportunities for the poor.
(f)    According to the poor, poverty results from lack of employment, low
agricultural productivity and limited access markets. Based on their diagnosis
of poverty, the priorities of the poor are: first, projects oriented to support
agricultural production; and second, health services. Water supply is a
priority for both agricultural needs and family consumption. The environment
is not seen a priority because is it not perceived as a constraint to poverty.
(g)    The sense of hopelessness that prevails arnong the poor is often compensated
by a cultural disposition for social solidarity. The poor in the project area are
well organized. They participate in community groups such as the cornites
comarcales, cooperatives, women's associations, Sutiaba cooperatives,
NGOs, and project groups. Foreign donors, however, largely mobilized and
sustain these community organizations.
(h)    The main problems of the Sutiabas are land disputes. However a vast portion
of the Sutiaba land is under conmmunity control and this control cannot be
legally challenged. This includes cooperative land legalized by the
governnent. Indigenous leaders requested that the project prioritize women
because their experience shows these investments produce greater benefits to
the family. Rural projects are of little interest to urban-based Sutiaba because
they are for the most part city dwellers.
7. ACTION PLAN FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project implementation would take into account the recommnendations of the Social
Assessment and Indigenous and Gender studies in the following ways.
Rural Poverty
(a)    Municipal Technical Units and INIFOM would actively promote the project in
eligible communities to make information available to the rural poor by using
local meetings, churches and radio in this dissemination process. Considering



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 19 of 22
the low formal education level, particularly among women, the project would
emphasize visual materials such as videos.
(b)    The project would promote and support two key community structures to help
the poor voice their demands and force local governments to respond to
them-Interconrmunity Assembly and Community Supervision
Committee-which include members elected by communities.
(c)    The project would support several training programs for communities directly
and for professionals (private, NGOs, government) that would provide
services to these communities.
(d)    The subproject categories include most priority investments identified by the
poor during the Rapid Rural Appraisals.
(e)    Periodic rural appraisals would assess the results of project implementation
and, in particular, if it is effectively reaching the poor. A annual review would
permit changes in the project to accommodate results from rapid rural
appraisals.
Gender
(f)    Gender Goals. The project would promote male and female participation and
benefits to men and women by including gender as an explicit goal of
municipal development. Gender goals would also be reflected in the
philosophy of the municipal development component of the project and
included in staff training so that gender becomes a part of staff values.
Training on gender issues would also include members of the municipal and
participatory structures involved in the project (municipal governments,
municipal technical unit, intercommunity assembly and community
supervision committee)
(g)    All personnel working on the project would be given the explicit responsibility
of involving men and women in municipal development activities, and this
duty would be reflected in staff terms of reference (including INIFOM
personnel, other project staff and municipal technicians). The project would
avoid establishing special segregated programs for women which tend to
marginalize women and imply that women's programs are an appendage to
mainstream project activities.
(h)    To ensure that gender is adequately internalized in project implementation the
project would recruit a participation and gender advisor to work on staff of
INIFOM as part of the project team. The advisor would act as a catalyst and
resource person and ensure that gender is adequately covered in promotion and
information dissemination activities, participatory microplanning and
monitoring. The advisor would also monitor the effectiveness of the project in



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 20of22
reaching men and women. Tenms of reference for the participation and gender
advisor are in the Project Implementation Plan.
(i)    Training Programs. To enhance men's and women's participation, the
project would train staff on how to detect gender differences and constraints to
participation, and how to develop strategies for overconiing gender barriers in
the project.
(j)    Project Promotion. The project would ensure that promotional material and
communications channels reflect gender differences and constraints.
Specifically, materials would avoid gender stereotypes in visual displays and
text and portray men and women as equal participants in the project. The
project would design a promotional and communications strategy for men and
women based on the following information in project areas: (a) specific local
gathering spots for men and women; (b) frequently used or accessible forms of
mass media for men and women; (c) time that men and women use media
channels; and (d) traditional means of communication. It is expected that the
project will establish a door to door promotional campaign to ensure both men
and women are invited to introductory meetings and microplanning sessions.
If societal norms inhibit women's participation with men, the project will
gather men and women separately and train community men and women on
gender issues to avoid possible conflicts.
(k)    Participatory Planning and Subproject Implementation. The project would
use a participatory planning methodology with a gender perspective to ensure
that both men and women have access to municipal funds and are involved in
determining community priorities and planning and executing subprojects.
The methodology will consider: gender-based social divisions in the
cosnmunity; time schedules of men and women; gender differences in
geographical mobility; literacy, education and training differences in men and
women; and organizational capacity and legal status of men's and women's
groups.
(I)    The project will encourage female participation through their own
organizations in situations where men dominate and have greater influence in
conmmunity organizations, but will work towards mainstreaming women in
community groups by training women in organization, leadership and self-
esteem and training men on gender issues. The project will also schedule
activities to coincide with time and geographical limitations faced by men and
women (e.g. on Sundays following or before religious services).
(m)   Training and Capacity Building at the Community Level. The project will
support training programs to compensate for illiteracy among community
members which in tum impedes participation in the project (particularly on the
part of women). Training and information disseniination will involve means
other than written materials (such as oral communications tools) to avoid
illiteracy obstacles. The project will recruit trainers and intermediary



Annex 3
Social Assessment:
Poverty, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 21 of 22
organizations based on their capacity and experience to work with illiterate
people. Training naterials supported by the project will include manuals,
workbooks and learning tools, such as games, that use simple concepts,
illustrations, colors and cartoon figures.
(n)    Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The project establishes gender
desegregated indicators into the monitoring and evaluation process of the
project to measure the differential impact of the project on men and women
and the effect of men's and women's participation on project outputs.
Indicators that will be differentiated by gender include: (a) members of
participatory structures; (b) attendance at community assemblies; (c)
participation in community and municipal planning; (d) number of people
participating in environmental, natural resources and productive subprojects;
and (e) number of direct and indirect beneficiaries of subprojects.
(o)    Special Studies and Review Procedures. The project would finance special
studies to measure the effect of the project activities on poverty reduction, by
gender of the individual involved in the activity. Specifically, the annual
reviews would examine: (i) gender opportunities and constraints to
participation at the family, group and conmnunity level and project strategies
to overcome these constraints and/or create opportunities (i.e. impact of
information campaigns and communications channels used, timing of
introductory and participatory sessions, special training for men on gender
issues, leadership training for women, etc.); (ii) impact of INIFOM staff,
municipal technicians and consultants (used to provide technical assistance) to
promote male and female participation in project activities (impact of training
for staff, staff incentives); and (iii) the strengths and weaknesses of
approaches to integrate men and women in project activities.
Sutiabas
(p)    Resolution of the century long problem of Sutiaba land tenure will involve a
slow process of negotiations and conflict resolution between the Sutiaba and
non-Sutiaba and will not be directly addressed by the project. Land titling
issues would generally be addressed by INRA which is being supported
through the Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project (Credit
No. 2536-NI). The proposed project would help the Sutiaba through two
mechanisms: (i) Sub-project proposals for the preparation of land demarcation
proposals would be eligible for financing and (ii) Indigenous organizations
would be strengtlhened through the training programs and specific capacity
building subprojects that they may propose.
(q)    Regarding participation and municipal investments, the Sutiabas and other
indigenous comrnmunities would be treated differently from non-indigenous
communities. While for non-indigenous people a community is defined as a
"comarca" which is a geographical unit, for indigenous people in the Pacific
and Atlantic, the community would be the indigenous group independently of



Annex 3
S  A_uur:
Poverq, Gender and Indigenous Issues in the Western Region
Page 22of22
their regional coverage. Indigenous traditional decision-making structure
would be the mechanisms for defining priorities and supervising subprojwct
inmplenentation.



NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 4
PROJECT DESCRIPTION1
1. Component I: Rural MuniciDalities Develonment
Background and Rationale
The rural municipalities development component was designed to respond to: (1)
the need to strengthen local institutions in rural areas: local governments, NGOs and
communities; (2) the need to foster economic growth in rural areas where most of the poor are
located; (3) the need to directly provide support to the poorest men and women; and (4) the
need to conserve and restore critical natural resources and protect the local environment.
There were several key considerations underlying the design of this component: (1)
in Nicaragua local institutions are closer to problems of, internalize better and can be more
easily made accountable to the needs of the rural poor; (2) with the proper incentives local
institutions can be more efficient in practicing sustainable management of natural resources;
(3) lagging rural investment is partially due to a local financing system that benefits large
urban centers and that has prevented local rural institutions from developing their decision-
making capacity; (4) given the current assistance programs to reform central government
agencies focusing them on normative aspects there is a need to decentralize the delivery of
local public services and goods; (5) key institutions such as the FISE and NRDP that
presently deliver local investments have a limited time horizon and can only be sustained with a
permanent flow of aid resources; there is a need for long term sustainable alternatives to them;
(6) there is cumulative evidence from Brazil, Bolivia, Mexico and Colombia that if properly
designed, systems for delivering rural development services and addressing rural poverty
through local governments can be quite successful; (7) Nicaragua's strategy as reflected in the
Partial Reform to the Constitution of 1995, in the work of the Decentralization Commission of
Government and in various laws and regulations is to increasingly shift more resources and
decision power to local governments; and (8) local governments already have large
responsibilities over sustainable development in their jurisdictions.
Objectives
The objective of this component is to establish a mechanism based on municipal
governments and community organizations for reducing rural poverty through rural investment
in economic infrastructure, improved natural resource management and small-scale communal
productive activities.
I     This Annex describes some project features that are described in more detail in the following
documents in the project file: Plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto, Reglamento Operativo, Manual
de Capacitaci6n and Plan Operacional para 1996/1997.



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 2 of 21
Component Description
This component would include the following subcomponents: (A) institutional
development of municipalities; (B) information, participation and training; (C) community and
municipality sub-projects; and (D) institutional development of INIFOM.
(A) Institutional Development of Municipalities (US$5.8 million)
The objective of this subcomponent is to create the minimum technical and
managerial capacity at the municipal level to assist the rural poor, manage natural resources
and protect the environment, to support local economic development through public goods; to
manage the Community and Municipality Subprojects Subcomponent; and to manage the
funds that will be forthcoming later as part of the system of fiscal transfers for disadvantaged
municipalities. The sub-component includes two activities: (1) Creation/strengthening of
Municipal Technical Units; and (2) Training and technical assistance on project management
and municipal affairs.
All project municipalities have been classified relative to each other into one of
three categories (high-A, moderate-B, and low capacity-C) based on their administrative and
financial capacities and the presence of other enabling elements, e.g., NGOs, development
committees, etc. (see Table Al. 1).
Municipal Technical Units
Each municipal government would create a Municipal Technical Unit responsible
for project activities at the local level. The minimnum staffing of the MTU would include (1) a
project's specialist (engineer, agronomist, etc,); (2) a participation specialist; and (3) an
accountant/financial specialist. These staff could be existing staff assigned to those specific
tasks (in type A municipalities), new staff (in type C municipalities), or a combination (in type
B municipalities).(See Table Al. 1 for classification). One of these staff would be nominated
Local Project Coordinator and would be the main contact person for project activities.
The project would finance minor equipment and office upgrading, consultants,
incremental salaries and other recurrent costs to assist municipal with the following activities:
(1) recruitment of staff for and physical establishment of the MTUs; (2) operation of MTUs
for the execution of activities (1) to (13) below; (3) setting-up a subproject monitoring and
evaluation system; and (4) setting-up a system of financial controls and project accounts at the
municipal level.
The functions of the MTU (see Operational Manual), would include:
(1) promoting the project with beneficiaries;
(2) assisting communities set up and operate the Intercommunity Assembly and
the Community Supervision Committee;
(3) promoting, training and assisting Intercommunity Assembly with participatory
planning;
(4) preparing municipal investment plans (MIP) including financial cronogram;
(5) assisting communities and municipalities with project preparation;



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 3 of 21
(6) carrying out procurement activities on behalf of INIFOM, including
maintaining roster of local consultants and NGOs and assisting communities
with their recruitment;
(7) reviewing subproject documentation, appraise subprojects and make
recommendation to municipal council;
(8) detecting technical assistance needs of subproject proponents and assist them
with technical assistance plan;
(9) supervising all subprojects and issuing reports of physical advances;
(10) maintaining the municipal subproject monitoring system;
(11) preparing municipal technical assistance plans and channeling these to
INIFOM;
(12) reporting to INIFOM on the project's progress at the municipal level and
requesting disbursements into municipal accounts;
(13) maintaining project accounts at the municipal level;
Technical assistance and training for municipal government.
The project would finance consultants, seminars, workshops, study tours and other
training expenses for the MTUs and other municipal staff in the following thematic areas:
(1) the subproject cycle, including on the identification, preparation, appraisal,
implementation and operation of subprojects in various thematic areas;
(2) participatory methods including participatory planning;
(3) environment and land use plans and design and planning of rural development,
natural resources and enviromment programs;
(4) gender and indigenous peoples related issues;
(5) accounting, auditing and financial management related to the project and
municipal operation in general;
(6) subproject monitoring, evaluation and reporting;
(7) procurement for works, goods and consultants and NGOs at the local level;
(8) local revenue generation and cost recovery for maintenance activities;
(9) personnel recruitment and management;
(10) municipal administration;
(11) legal assistance
Agreement to receive training and/or technical assistance in the thematic areas (1)
through (7) would be a condition of municipal eligibility for the Community and Municipality
Subprojects Sub-component. These training programs would be organized and managed by
the Directorate of Technical Assistance of INIFOM, which would recruit consultants or NGOs
to provide the services and/or do the quality control over the programs. Training and technical
assistance on the thematic areas (8) through (11) would be demand driven. INIFOM would
receive demand from municipal governments in this area and recruit consultants or set up
training programs, pooling municipalities whenever possible.
(B) Information, Participation and Training (USS2.8 million)
The objectives of this subcomponent are (1) to make the rights and responsibilities
of communities and local governments widely known to increase the level of community



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 4 of 21
control and local transparency and accountability; (2) to increase the supply of local technical
services to support communities and municipalities; and (3) to generate increased demand for
subprojects. This sub-component includes three activities: (1) promotion and dissemination of
project; (2) creation and operation of community participatory structures and participatory
planning; and (3) training of community leaders, NGOs and local consultants.
There would be two kinds of communities eligible for participatory planning and to
propose projects. For most population community would be defined as the "comarca" which
is the smallest geographical unit commonly recognized in Nicaragua. A typical comarca
includes about 100 families, while a municipality could have about 50 comarcas. For
indigenous communities, the indigenous traditional community structures would be treated as
commnunities for project purposes.
Promotion and dissemination of project at the local level
The project would finance consultants, dissemination materials, seminars,
workshops and travel expenses for the promotion and dissemination of the project at the
community level through town meetings, radio, TV, videos, written materials, other infornal
communication devices and seminars and workshops for community members, leaders and
notables. Promotion and dissemination activities would take place periodically and would
include at least the following thematic areas:
(1) Overall project description including objectives, components, resources and
responsibilities, aspects of operational manual and cronogram of
implementation;
(2) Community participation aspects including commnunity participatory
structures and participatory planning;
(3) Women and indigenous peoples issues;
(4) Environmental issues including role of environmental and land use plans;
(5) Examples of project successes and failures in other communities including
types of subprojects approved, procurement arrangements, subproject costs,
etc.
Promotion and dissemination activities would be the joint responsibility of MTUs
and INIFOM, which would recruit NGOs or consultants to assist with the process and develop
dissemination materials. A community member would be designated as project promoter at the
community level and would be the community focal point for promotion and dissemination.
Intercommunity Assembly and Community Supervision Committee and Participatory
Planning
The project would finance consultants and travel expenses to assist with the
creation and/or operation of the Intercommunity Assembly and the Community Supervision
Committee and with participatory planning events.
The Intercommunity Assembly is the key community structure at the municipal
level. It is composed of community representatives (comprising at least 70% of all the
communities within a municipality) and may include also representatives of local NGOs,



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 5 of 21
religious groups, producer associations, and local notables (priest, teacher, nurse, etc.) . The
key functions of the Intercommunity Assembly are:
(1) to priorize the needs of the various communities into an overall expression of
community needs and priorities at the municipal level and to solve conflicts
between different communities for project resources;
(2) to define the general strategy for rural development;
(3) to discuss, endorse and support the Municipal Investment Plan to be financed
by the project;
(4) to elect members of the Community Supervision Committee and to review
their reports.
The Community Supervision Committee is a small structure in charge of ensuring
that community interests and the interests of rural areas are adequately taken into account. It
will have the same number of members as tiue Municipal Council. Each member will be
elected for one year. The project will pay a small fixed fee per member for each meeting
attended to cover travel expenses and opportunity costs of labor. The key functions of the
Community Supervision Committee are:
(1) supervise project execution at the municipal level on behalf of communities;
(2) report to the Intercommunity Assembly and INIFOM on project execution and
issue certificates of sub-project completion to the MTU and INIFOM;
(3) oversee municipality/community agreements and compliance with project
objectives.
The activities related to the establishment and operation of the Intercommunity
Assembly and Community Supervision Committee would be jointly executed by the MTUs and
INIFOM, which would recruit consultants to assist with the process.
Participatory planning would be the process for prioritizing community problems
and needs and start suggesting solutions to these problems. Participatory planning would be
carried out by the community with facilitators which would include both the MTU and
consultants or NGOs recruited by INIFOM to assist with the process.
Community members would meet to carry out participatory planning exercises to
agree on needs and investment priorities and to elect community representatives to the
Intercommunity Assembly (IA). The MTU would integrate priorities of each community
within each municipality into a municipal investment plan (MIP), which could include also
projects identified by one or more municipal governments. The MTUs would also take into
account recommendations from the Environment and Land Use Plans (ELUP). MIPs would
be submitted to the Intercommunity Assembly (IA) for discussion and priorization of
investments among communities. The Community Supervision Committee (CSC) would be
responsible for advising the municipal government, monitoring the implementation of the
municipal investment plan and informing conmmunities of progress. The MIPs would be
approved by Municipal Councils and submitted to the Regional Delegation of INIFOM for
non-objection and confirmation of eligibility for IDA financing or for other financing sources.



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 6 of 21
Training for and Registry of Service Providers
The project would finance equipment, consultants, seminars, workshops, rental of
facilities, training materials, study tours and travel expenses for training programs (Pacific and
Atlantic) to build the capacity among relevant professionals of local NGOs, private sector and
government agencies on:
(1)  all aspects of the subproject cycle including identification, preparation,
appraisal, implementation and operation.
(2)  participatory planning, project identification and preparation methodologies in
the context of the proposed project;
(3)  technical aspects of natural resources and rural water projects subprojects and
on use and interpretation of environmental and land use plans;
(4)  application and transfer of technical systems for sustainable resource
management;
(5)  project and fund administration, management and monitoring and evaluation
The training program is designed to ensure that the professional skills of natural
resource management specialists and sub-project managers are adequate for sub-project needs.
This component is targeted at local NGOs, private sector and government operating at the
local level who must assist communities and municipalities with all aspects of the subproject
cycle from identification to operation and who will ultimately exert technical control over the
subprojects. In the past the provision of opportunity to maintain and/or upgrade the
professional skills of this group has been largely ignored.
Table A4.1 Summary of Activities of Training Program
OBECTIVES                        ACTIVITIES                                         PRODUCTS
I) Build capacity        I a) Design training courses and develop    I a) Develop field-based training program that allows participants
among relevant           curricula;                             to work on design of projects for Municipal Fund financing
professionals in         Ib) Develop field manuals for          (YR.I);
participatory project    practitioners;                          lb) Publish and dissemninate 1,000 manuals on PRA and RRA
identification &         I c) Implement training schedule;       methodologies (YR. 1);
preparation              1 d) Certify course graduates;          I c) Train & certify 150 professionals and assist to prepare 30
methodologies            le) Establish and implement continuing    projects (YR.3);
education seminar series.              Id) Create register of successful course graduates (YRI);
I e) Provide 16 seminars in 4 key topics to 400 professionals
(YR.5)
2) Build capacity        2a) Design training courses and develop    2a) Develop field-based training program that allows participants
among relevant           curricula;                              to work on design of projects for Municipal Fund financing
professionals in project    2b) Develop field manuals for        (YR. I);
analysis.                practitioners;                          2b) Publish and disseminate 750 manuals each on environmental
2c) Implement training schedule;       analysis; farming systems analysis; and project cost:benefit
2d) Cenify course graduates;           analysis methodologies (YR. 1);
2e) Establish and implement continuing    2c) Train & cenify 150 professionals and analyze 30 projects
education seminar series.              (YR.3);
2d) Create register of successful course graduates (YRI);
2e) Provide 24 seminars in 12 key topics to 450 professionals
(YR.5)
3) Build capacity        3a) Design training courses and develop    3a) Review study on technical offerings; 3 ecosystem-level
among relevant           curricula;                              seminars to present/define state-of-art of proven/potential tech.for
professionals in         3b) Develop field manuals for           soil/moisture conservation, soil fertility mgmt., agroforestry, and



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 7 of 21
OBJECTIVES                      ACTIVITIES                                          PRODUCTS
application & transfer   practitioners;                         farm-level diversification. Develop field-based training prograrn
of technical systerns for    3c) Implement training schedule;    on application and mgmt. of key technologies for farm-level and
sustainable resource     3d) Certify course graduates;           landscape-level susLmgimt (YR. I);
management               3e) Establish and implement continuing    3b) Publish & disserinate 20,000 tech. booklets (4
education seminar series.              topics,l0subjects,500 copies) (YR.5);
3c) Train & certify 250 professionals(YR4);l
3d) Create register of uccessful course graduates (YRI);
3e) Provide 32 seminars in 4 key topics to 600 professionals
(YR.5)
4) Build capacity        4a) Design training courses and develop    4a) Develop training program that allows participants to work on
among relevant           curricula;                              projects financed by Municipal Fund (YR. 1);
professionals in project  4b) Develop field manuals for          4b) Publish and disseminate 200 manuals each on accounting
and fund admin.,         practitioners;                          and fund management, project management, and project
management, and          4c) Implement training schedule;        monitoring & evaluation (YR. I);
monitoring &             4d) Certify course graduates;           4c) Train & certify 250 professionals (YR.5);
evaluation               4e) Establish and implement continuing    4d) Create register of successful course graduates (YR 1);
education seminar series.              4e) Provide 24 seminars in 3 key topics to 350 professionals
(YR.5)
5) Provide an outreach   5a) Identify clientele for outreach     5a) Review needs of municipal and govt line agency personnel
program for training of    program and design program;          within 4 areas for capacity building (above), prioritize needs for
professionals who        5b) Adapt key topics from training     training (YR. 1);
cannot access traditional   curricula to meet clientele needs and for    5b) Edit and adapt training curricula to level and needs of
training.                video;                                  clientele, develop workbooks for video course participants
5c) Film training courses and publish  (YRI.5);
workbooks;                             5c) Produce 120 hours of video courses in 8 subjects in each of 4
5d) Imnplement outreach program.       areas, print 4,000 workbooks(YR2).
5d) Make video courses available in 50 municipalities (YR3) to
600 professionals.
The project would also finance consultants for the development and maintenance of
a registry of successful course graduates and other NGOs or professionals qualified for
providing technical assistance to municipalities and communities on all aspects of the sub-
project cycle, participatory planning and the thematic areas associated with the project. This
registry would be maintained in INIFOM and each MTU.
(C) Grants for Community and Municipality Subprojects (US$23.4 million)
The project would finance matching grants for small subprojects proposed by
communities and municipalities in the Pacific and Atlantic regions.
Eligible Subproject Categories. There would be a broad range of acceptable sub-
projects falling in the following categories: (1) environment and natural resources; (2)
municipal infrastructure; (3) community infrastructure; (4) productive; and (5) capacity
building. Examples are given in Chapter 3 of the SAR and in Table A5.2. Prototypes of
several of these subprojects are in the project file.



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 8 of 21
Table A4.2. Matching Grants: Examples of Activities To Be Supported
Categories                    Types of Activities                                JDA Financeable Activities
|GreenMe environmental    1) Microwatershed mgmL                        I) Technical Assistance for: legal services; diagnostics; community
and natural rsource    2) Riparian zone protection                      plannng; environsnental analysis; feasibility studies; technical design;
management             3) Forest/nmangove mgmt.& conservation           supervision & monitoringl
4) 1PM                                           2) Materials & Equip. for: nurserying of plants; planting activities; fire
5) Soil & moisture conserv.                     control; plant protection; forest & plantation mgrrnt.; extension and
6) Protected areas & buffer zone mgmnt.         training; comrunity workshops; protected area delimitation.
3) Training of: participants. para-technicians & technicians.
4) Operational expenses for: community workshops; extension;
supervision; monitoring
5) Labor for: vegetation estab. & maintenance; fire prevention and
control.
Rural Public           I) Rehabilitation of 2i & 3" roads               I) Technical Assistance for: community planning, environmental
Infrastructure         2) Potable water systems                         analysis; feasibility studies; technical design; supervision & monitoring.
4) Commercialization and distribution           2) Materials & Equip. for: construction; beneficiary maintenance.
3) Irrigation and drainage                      3) Training of system managers and users, maintenance personnel.
technicians.
4) Operational expenses for: community workshops, supervision;
monitoring.
5) Labor for: skilled work; unskilled work on roads
Productive Projects    I) Soil & moisture conservation                  I) Technical Assistance for: diagnostics; community planning;
2) Soil fertility mgmL                          environmental analysis; feasibility studies; technical design; financial
3) IPM                                          mgmt.& accounting; supervision & monitoring.
4) Improved varieties                           2) Materials & Equip. for: nurserying of plants; planting activities; plant
5) Pasture mgmt.                                & variety introductions; extension and trainirg, community workshops.
6) Farm & agroforestry                          3) Training of: participants, pars-technicians & technicians.
7) Market gardens                               4) Operational expenses for: community workshops; extension;
8) Perennial crops                              supervision; monitoring.
9) Post-harvest                                 5) Labor for: skilled work
Technical assistance.  I) Municipal Environmental Management Plans      1) Technical Assistance for: lega! services, environmental planning,
training and equipping  2) Municipal Technical Unit (lfrU)              community participation, environmental analysis, feasibility studies;
of local governments   3) Financial management                          technical design; supervision & monitoring; and in Type C
4) Project accounting supervision, monitoring   municipalities, for project implementation services.
5) Natural resource policy & law                2) Materials & Equip, for: MTU1; fmancial mgmt. and accounting; project
promotion.
3) Training of: MTU. municipal fmancial and accounting staff, members
of municipal project selection committee (MPSC).
4) Operational expenses for: municipal and community workshops;
MTU; MPSC; supervision; monitoring
5) Personnel costs: MllJ staff
Technical assistance,  1) Community funds                               I) Technical Assistance for: legal services; comnmunity participation;
and traiunig of        2) Project mngmt., administration, accounting    feasibility studies; technical design; supervisi.n & monitoring;
communities            3) Application & mgmt of natural resource        commnunity land titling proposals.
technology                                      2) Materials & Equip. for: fmancial mgmt. and accounting
3) Didactic materials & equip for training courses & activities
4) Trainig of trainers
5) Training of: find recipients; community-level fund managers financial
and accounting staff.
6) Operational expenses for: community workshops, supervision;
monitoring.
Technical Assistance   I) Strategic, applied& adaptive research; on-farm  I) Technical Assistance for: diagnostics; feasibility studies; technical
for applied research and   trials; demonstrations/ extension in: soil and water  design; supervision & monitoring.
extension              m3gnt.; farm & agroforestry; fnuit tree cultivation;  2) Materials & Equip. for. research consumabics, field-level sampling &
nattual forest & mangrove mgrnt.; marine resources  analysis; specialized mgmt. tools & equip.; genetic material (e.g., seed,
mgmt; small-scale aquaculture; animal husbandry;  plants, fingerlings, etc); site development & protection, extension and
non-traditional small livestock (iguana, agouti).  training; community workshops
3) Training of farmer-researchers, para-technicians & technicians.
4) Operational expenses for: community workshops; extension,
supervision; monitorng.
5) Labor for: skilled & semi-skilled work.
Restrictions on subprojects. Consistently with the project's focus on rural
development through the provision of local public goods, poverty alleviation and environmental
protection, the following restrictions would apply:



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 9 of 21
(1) subprojects in towns of more than 10,000 inhabitants do not qualify;
(2) at least 60% of funds invested annually are for sub-projects outside of the
head town of the municipality;
(3) activities of second-level organizations (e.g., NGOs, governnent line agencies,
universities, private sector firms, etc) which are not first requested by and
directly linked to municipalities, communities or community-level groups do
not qualify;
(4) activities which could cause irreversible environmental damage (e.g.,
conversion of forest to other uses; drainage of wetlands; channelization of
rivers and streams; use of agrochemicals with a WHO rating of 'A') would not
qualify;
(5) beneficiaries must be community organizations or groups of at least 10
households; individual activities do not qualify;
(6) subprojects otherwise financeable by banks or other lending institutions do not
qualify; compliance with this restriction would be checked during project
audits and supervision;
(7) the maximum cost per beneficiary is US$700.
Subproject cycle. Responsibilities over the subproject cycle would be the
following:
(1) Subproject identification The project ideas would have been defined and pre-
approved in the MIPs. The MTUs would assist communities with further
identification of projects for which the services of local private consultants,
NGOs or government officials qualified through the registry of service
providers could be contracted. The identification phase would also include
defining the Project User Group (PUG), those community members with a
stake in the subproject and that later would supervise or execute its
implementation, operation and maintenance.
(2) Subproject preparation Subproject preparation would be the responsibility
of the MTUs for municipality subprojects or MTUs and/or PUGs for
community subprojects. In most instances MTUs and legally established
communities would hire qualified private consultants, NGOs or government
agencies to assist communities and MTUs with project preparation. Projects
would cover the costs of consultants or travel expenses of government staff.
Projects would be prepared according to guidelines included in the Training
Manual and the project proposal would need to include a (a) management
plan; (b) operation, maintenance and, if the case, cost recovery plan; (c)
technical assistance plan; (d) co-financing p!an identifying sources of
financing; (e) simple monitorable indicators; and (f) the sub-project agreement
and other signed letters and agreements depending on the case and according
to the formats in the Operational Manual (Reglamento Interno).



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 10of21
(3) Subproject appraisal and approval. The Municipal Technical Unit would
review all project proposals and recommend to the Municipal Council
approval, rejection or further preparation. The MC would approve all
subprojects that: (a) meet community priorities as outlined in MPs; (b)
include acceptable management, operation, cost recovery and technical
assistance plans; (c) include criteria for monitoring and evaluation; (d) are
technically sound; (e) include co-financing by beneficiaries and/or
municipalities; (f) meet environmental criteria; (g) fit poverty objectives; and
(h) target rural areas. All projects of US$25,000 or less would not require
further approval. All projects of US$50,000 of graduated municipalities
would not require further approval. Projects not under those thresholds would
have to be approved by INIFOM and environmentally cleared by MARENA.
For the appraisal of projects INIFOM would request the assistance of line
agencies - INTA, NRDP, INAA, FISE, MCT. - and could also recruit
consultants to assist with the appraisal.
(4) Subproject implementation. Subproject implementation would also be the
responsibility of the MTUs and communities. Projects could be either
implemented by legally established communities themselves, by contractors
recruited by the MTUs on behalf of communities, or by a combination of the
two. Project implementation would in specific cases include training on
project operation, maintenance and cost recovery. All projects would be
supervised by the MTU and communities and/or Project User Groups
established. All projects greater than US$50,000 and samples of smaller
projects would be also supervised by the Regional Delegation of INIFOM.
(5) Operation, maintenance and cost recovery. Operation, maintenance and
cost-recovery would be the responsibility of legally established communities
and/or municipal governments depending on the project and the particular
model to be adopted would be described in the project proposal. For the
specific case of productive projects, cost-recovery into community funds
would be promoted and the project would finance technical assistance and
training on the management of these funds. These rotating funds would be the
mechanisms for spreading the benefits of private goods projects over the
largest number of community members in order to avoid conflicts and build up
the social capital in communities.
Municipality eligibility
Municipal eligibility. To become eligible for the sub-projects municipalities would
have to enter into an eligibility and financing agreement with INIFOM (a sample is included in
the Draft Operational Manual) in which they agree, prior to eligibility for sub-project grants,
to:
(1) follow the rules in the Operational Manual;
(2) create or strengthen the Municipal Technical Unit;



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 11 of 21
(3) establish project accounts and bring financial controls up to Bank standards as
per monitoring indicators and criteria and action plan presented in the
background document "Evaluaci6n/Diagn6stico Contable de 32 Municipios,
INIFOMy MARENA" which is in the project file;
(4) establish and operate a project monitoring and evaluation system as described
inAnnex 10;
(5) promote the project with communities and assist communities setting up and
operating the community structures and follow participatory planning methods
as discussed under Subcomponent (B);
(6) develop municipal investment plans respecting community priorities and the
environment and land use plans (ELUP) discussed below
(7) when specific financing is provided, signing imnplementation agreements for
subprojects.
Financing Ceilings. Financing ceilings play three roles: (1) by imposing a budget
constraint on municipal governments and communities they would force these to prioritize and
optimize their portfolio and to develop trade-off analysis and conflict resolution mechanisms,
in the process helping strengthen local decision-making structures; (2) they would avoid
biasing funding toward the larger and better situated municipalities which are more capable of
presenting sound subproject proposals; and (3) they would permit to better target project
resources toward meeting poverty and environmental objectives. Each year there would be a
financing ceiling per municipality calculated on the basis of a formula applied to a total annual
budget that increases from the first to the last year of the project. The results (in percentage)
are presented in Figure A1. 1. These caps will be reviewed and modified annually based on
performance and demand. The indicators and their weights are:
(1) poverty index, using the FISE index of "unsatisfied basic needs" - 42%;
(2) necessity index, using municipality's rural population as a proxy for necessity
- 34%;
(3) economic efficiency index using as proxies: municipal tax collections - 14%;
and the total community counterpart (in-kind and cash) from previous year's
municipal development investment program - 10%.
Penalties and incentives. See para 6.17 of the SAR for the proposed penalties and
incentives.
Local co-financing. All subprojects (with the exception of capacity building sub-
projects) would require matching funds from beneficiaries, whether farmner groups,
communities, NGOs or municipalities, in accordance with criteria listed in Table I of the SAR.
Environmental review of subprojects. The process for environrmental review of
sub-projects is discussed in the background document "Sistema de Procedimientos
Ambientales para la Gesti6n Ambiental Municipal" The environmental review of subprojects
would be carried out by the MTU for all subprojects and by the MTU and MARENA for
projects greater than US$50,000 or subprojects included in risk 1II category (see below). At
the Municipal-level technical unit staff would review preliminary proposals against pre-
determined inclusion and exclusion criteria and ascertain the proposal's coherence viz. the



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 12 of 21
municipal environment and land use plans. Those passing this stage would be required to
complete a simple form which describes project activities, geographic location of each activity
and the presence of sensitive areas (rivers, protected areas, forests, etc), and which explicitly
defines the projects consistency with the ELUP and national environmental legislation; and
how subproject interventions would be maintained following subproject completion.
Figure A4.3 Municipal Financing Ceilings
So        S50       Sioo       S150       S200       S250       S300       S350       S400       S450
San Juan del Nor t     - - *
El CastUI l
San Carlos-
San Miguelit .
Mornito   _                                            
El Almerndn
Nueva Guine                                           .......
Muelle do los Buoy  ____ _......... ...... :' .....
Ram h   B _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ g':' _' _
Nagarote
La Paz Centi           '
El Jicaral
Sta. Rosa del Pelo
Achuapa                                                  0 Cuota por municipio (%)
El Sauci                 _________                       E Inversion annual per capita  USS
T elica 
Ouezaiguaq u
Le6n                                                                . __...... ............
Posoltega.
Chichigalpa       ....  .'...... '.. ' '.
Cori nto
El Realejo
Chinandega        .    .
Villanueva
San Fco deN1 
San Pedro del N
Cinco Pinos
Santo Tomas del
Somotillo,,,.::        
Puerto Moraza
El Viejo.]
0.00%           2,00%           4.000%           6.00%           S.00%           10.00%           12.00%



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 13 of 21
MTUs would categorize the subproject based on Decree 45/95. Projects would be
classified as: (1) Category I - subprojects without negative environmental impact; does not
require an EA; (2) Category II - subprojects with limited potential negative impact; requires
an EA; explicit approval not required; (3) Category III - requires a full ETA and environmental
management plan, completed by a qualified professional and approval by MARENA. For
category I and II proposals, the MTU could assign up to 20% of total estimated microproject
cost to contract the required work. In the case of microprojects with environmental analyses
and/or need for MARENA approval, the MTU would be responsible to obtain that approval.
Table A1. 13 lists the main environmental risks associated with subproject categories.
Subproject Operation Phase: The major environmental issues during operation
would relate to soil erosion, soil nutrient management, agrochemical usage, natural forest
management, and overexploitation of resources. The following measures would be taken to
reduce risks and avoid or mitigate the potential negative impacts:
(1) a project-wide, four year, ongoing training and technical assistance program
targeted at all natural resource professionals and higher/mid-level technicians
in the project areas on the subproject cycle would include compliance with
environmental norms and regulations and best management practices to meet
them. This would include a review of implementation experiences and
systemization of best management practices for dissemination by INTA and
project activities;
(2) subprojects with environmental risks would include a TA plan;
(3) subprojects would include (a) financing of formal/informal environmental
education programs to raise key local issues to the level of public debate and
educate populace on altematives and trade-offs; and (b) financing of applied
research activities to address specific concerns such as: adapted crop varieties;
soil/crop specific fertilizer trials to rationalize usage; validation of IPM
practices; and monitoring of regenerative capacities of managed resources;
(4) annual independent reviews of selected microprojects in each municipality,
which include technical and environmental audits.
(D) Strengthening of INIFOM (US$3.3 million).
The objectives of this sub-component are to help develop: (I) the conditions in
INIFOM to implement the component and (2) a legal framework to ensure project
sustainability.
Strengthening of INIFOM
The project would finance minor office works, equipment, consultants, studies,
seminars and workshops, study tours and incremental salaries and other recurrent costs for the:
(1) Directorate of Planning which will be responsible for implementation of the
Rural Municipality Development Component; the project will cover the costs
of a Planning Advisor, Procurement Advisor, Accountant and
Disbursements Officer and Project Auditor.



Annex 4
Project Descfiption
Page 14 of 21
Table A4A. Potential Negative Impacts From Project Implementation.
Activity                 Potential Negative Impact                                                          Mitigation Measure
Intensification of    1) Land Use Conversion; 2) Increased Soil  (1) Existing crop lands only, local land use planning framework, pre-financing inspection, production systems include conservation; (2)
Agricutural Production    Loss and Degradation (physicaVchemicaV  Training, extension, and financing of soil & moisture conservation and fertility management practices; (3) same as #2
biological); 3) Non-point Source Pollution
Increased Usage of    1) Human Health; 2) Surface and Groundwater   (1,2,3) Pesticides - training and environmental education on handling, use, disposal; support to ongoing IPM research and disseminatio
Agrochemicals         Contamination; 3) Increased Resistance of   promotion of aKematives (e.g. neem); development and dissemination of list of crop-based "approved" pesticides; support to research a
Pests/Disease                             introduction of adapted crop varieties; Herbicides - promotion of cover cropping for weed suppression; Inorganic Fertilizers - promotion
green manure crops, crop residue management, compost; support to research and introduction of adapted crop varieties; financing of c
and soil type specific fertilizer trials; soil testing; training and extension on appropriate use.
Agroprocessing         1) Surface and Groundwater Contamination; 2)   (1,2,3,4,5,6,7) Small-scale processing in support of locally produced raw materials only; environmental scoping (100% subsidized),
Microenterprises      Waste TreatmenVDisposal; 3) Air Pollution; 4)    followed by EA as required; public meeting on EA (100% subsidized); detailed engineeing designs and construction of mitigation syste
Increased Consumption of Fuelwood; 5)      reviewed by competent authority (private sector or university) and approved by MARENA (1 00% subsidized); financing required to inclu
Inappropriate Sitting; 6) Inappropriate   installation costs; financial analysis with mitigation costs (1 00% subsidized); trenching of financing contingent on installation of mitigatio
Production Systems for Raw Matenals; 7) In-  measures; training in implementation of mitigation measures (100% subsidized); supervision of operation and loan foreclosure for failur
plant Health and Safety                    maintain and operate mitigation measures.
Intensification of    1) Overfishing; 2) Reduction in Non-Target  (1,2) Environmental scoping (100% subsidized), followed by EA as required; adequate management plan which has been reviewed by
Artesanal Fisheries   Species Populations;                        competent authority (private sector firm or university) and approved by MARENA; financing to cover costs of implementing managemen
plan, including training and technical assistance; trenching of financing contingent on compliance with management plan; supervision a
loan foreclosure for failure to follow management plan.
Artesanal and Semi-   1) Inappropriate Sitting of Tanks; 2)       (1,2,3,4) Small-scale onty; local land use planning framework; environmental scoping (100% subsidized), follwed by EA as required;
Intensive Shrimp      Destruction of Mangrove and Coastal         public meeting on EA (1 00% subsidized); detailed engineering designs and construction of mitigation systems reviewed by competent
Culture               Wetland Habitat- 3) Over-Harvesting of Wild  authority (private sector or university) and approved by MARENA (100% subsidized); financing required to include installation costs;
Populations of Shrimp Larvae; 4) Degradation    financial analysis with mitigation costs (90% subsidized); trenching of financing contingent on installation of mitigation measures; trainin
of Water Quality                          in implementation of mitigation measures (100% subsidized); supervision of operation and loan foreclosure for failure to maintain and
operate mitigation measures, including water quality sampling. If high demand for financing exists, project would finance sectoral EA.
Management of         1) Over-Harvesting; 2) Habitat Destruction; 3)    (1,2,3,4,5,8) Community scale only; local land use planning framework; environmental and social scoping (100% subsidized), folowed
Natural Forest        Loss of Biodiversity; 4) Increased Soil Loss and   EA as required; public meeting on EA (1 00% subsidized); project-financed review and updating of forest management norms and
(including mangroves)    Degradation; 5) Decreased Runoff        regulations; completion of adequate management plan which has been reviewed by competent authority (private sector firm or un -ersiy
Concentration Times and Increased Peak     and approved by MARENA; financing to cover costs of implementing management plan, including training and technical assistance (90
Flows; 6) Increased Forest Access and      subsidized); financial analysis with management costs (90% subsidized); trenching of financing contingent on complianrce with
Colonization; 7) Increased Hunting Pressures;    management plan; supervision and loan foreclosure for failure to follow management plan; support to applied research in appropriate fo
B) Water Quality Impacts; 9) Social Conflicts  management systems. If high demand for financing exists, project would finance sectoral EA. (6,7) Support to regulation, contro and
(tenure, resource use, amenity values)     enforcement through community-based forest protection schemes; logistical and training support to police and military; no financing of
activities which increase access to sensitive areas (6,9) Support to land administration and titling processes in buffer zone areas; traini
to NGOs in community organization and diagnostics.
Agroforestry/          1) Degradation of Germplasm; 2) Introduction  (1) Financing of certified or source identified seed only; introduction of improved nursery practices and culling programs; training and
of Aggressive Species                      technical assistance in nursery production; 2) Introductions only of tested species.



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 15 of 21
Activity                 Potential Negative Impact                                                           Mitigation Measure
Reforestation
Microwatershed        1) Social Conflicts (resource use)         (1) Support to land administration and titling processes in buffer zone areas; training to NGOs in community organization and participat
Management                                                        diagnostics.
Small-Scale Drainage    1) Alteration/Destruction of Habitat & Fragile  (1,2,3,4) Community scale only; existing crop lands only; local land use planning framework; pre-financing inspection, production syste
and Irrigation        Areas; 2) Increased Soil Loss and Degradation;   include conservation; training, extension, and financing of soil & moisture conservation and fertility management practices; environment
3) Surface and Groundwater Contamination; 4)   scoping (100% subsidized); environmental scoping (100%) financed, followed by EA as required; public meeting on EA (100%
Overextraction of Surface and Groundwater  subsidized); completion of adequate management plan (including user organization and fees for upkeep) which has been reviewed by
competent authority (private sector firm or university); financing to cover costs of implementing management plan, including training and
technical assistance (90% subsidized); financial analysis with management costs (90% subsidized); trenching of financing contingent a
compliance with management plan; supervision and loan foreclosure for failure to follow management plan.
Intensification of    1) Overgrazing; 2) Increased Soil Loss and  (1,2,3,4,5,6) Small-scale only; existing pasture lands; local land use planning framework; pre-financing inspection; production systems t
Livestock Production  Degradation; 3) Reduced Groundwater         include improved pasture and conservation; training, extension, and financing of soil & moisture conservation, fertility management
Recharge; 4) Increased Pasture Burning; 5)  practices and improved pasture; financial analysis with management costs (90% subsidized); supervision and loan foreciosure for failur
Forest Conversion; 6) Water Quality Impact  to sustain improved management plan. (6) Support to local campaigns and environmental education to reduce use of fire and uncontroll
burning; training in controlled buming; support to enforcement of anti-buming ordinances.
Rehabilitation of Rural   1) Increased Soil Loss and Sedimentation; 2)  (1) Review and upgrading of engineering standards to assure appropriate drainage and sediment control design standards; financing of
Roads                 Increased Access and Colonization: 3)       vegetative stabilization and road drainage systems; completion of road maintenance plan (including organization and financing);
Increased Rates of Deforestation & Illegal  supervision and cutting of future road rehabilitation financing in municipalities where failure to install and maintain drainage structures.
Harvesting of Forest Products              (2,3) Secondary roads only; local land use planning framework; environmental scoping (1 00% subsidized); support to regulation, control
and enforcement through community-based forest protection schemes; logistical and training support to police and military; no financin
which increases access to sensitive areas.
Ecotourism            1) Damage or Destruction of Habitat and     (1,2,3,5) Small scale only; in non-sensitive areas only; local land use planning framework; pre-financing inspection; inclusion of water a
Fragile Areas; 2) Waste Treatment and      sanitation systems in design; environmental scoping financed (1 00% subsidized), followed by EA as required; public meeting on EA
Disposal; 3) Overuse of Critical Habitat; 4)  (1 00% subsidized); financial analysis with management costs (90% subsidized); trenching of financing contingent on compliance with
Social Conflicts (cuitural impacts, resource  management plan; supervision and loan foreclosure for failure to follow management plan. (4) Enterprise discussed and business plan
use, tenure); 5) Increased Resource Use    agreed with community members.
Pressures (fuewood, water supply, forest
harvesting, agricultural intensification)
Buffer Zone           See Intensification of Agricutural Production;  See Corresponding Themes
Management            Increased Usage of Agrochemicals;
(Protected Areas)     Management of Natural Forest (including
mangroves); Microwatershed Management;
Intensification of Livestock Production;
Rehabilitation of Rural Roads; Ecotoursm



Annex 4
Project Description
16of 21
(2) Directorate of Technical Assistance which will be in charge of
managing several technical assistance and training programs; the project
will cover the costs of a Training Advisor.
(3) Directorate of Information and Technology Services; the project will
cover the costs of a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist.
(4) Regional Delegations of INIFOM in Leon and San Carlos; the project
will cover the costs of an Agricultural Engineer (Le6n and San Carlos)
and a Water Engineer (Leon).
Support to the Executive Committee for Public Sector Reform (CERAP)
The project would finance consultants and workshops to assist GON through
CERAP with the design and preparation of legal proposals for the:
(1) Municipalities Law including Fiscal Transfers;
(2) Decentralization Strategy;
(3) Municipal Workers Code;
(4) Resolution of conflicts between decentralization legislation and other
legislation under preparation;
(5) Procedures for the granting of juridical personality to conmmunities.
Component II. Natural Resources Policy and Institutions
Background and Rationale
The Natural Resources Policies and Institutions Component was designed to
increase the capacity at the central government level to ensure that public and private
actors internalize environmental concerns in their decisions. This is particularly
important in the context of the decentralization process to local governments and
communities supported by component I. Local institutions are known for inadequately
considering the costs of their actions on other jurisdictions, and this is particularly so in
the case of the environment where there are substantial regional, national and global
externalities. Hence it is necessary for central government to keep track of these effects
and through a variety of instruments prevent local jurisdictions from taking actions that
cause more harm on others than the benefits that accrue to them.
The second important consideration in the design of both this component and
of component III - the associated Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor Project to be financed by
GEF - was to assist government in putting in place a legal and institutional framework
that would create the necessary conditions, as stated in Bank policies, for future Bank
supported investment projects in the natural resources sectors, and in particular in
forestry and coastal zone management.
Objectives
The key objective of this component is to ensure that GON and local
institutions and communities take into account important regional, national and global



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 17 of 21
environment aspects in their decisions by improving the policy and institutional
framework for natural resources.
Component Description
This component consists of a small technical assistance program covering
two different areas: (A) strengthening of MARENA; and (B) interinstitutional
assistance program.
(A) Strengthening of MARENA (US$3.0 million)
The objective of this subcomponent is to increase the institutional capacity of
MARENA in the areas of (1) policy; (2) environmental planning and monitoring; and (3)
protected area management. The environmental planning and monitoring activities would
help develop an information system identifying critical environmental risks at the local
level that will be used to assist municipal governments with their investment decisions
under component I and that will enable MARENA to object to risky investments for the
environment in the context of components I and III. The project would finance
equipment, minor office upgrading, consultants, seminars and workshops, study tours
and incremental salaries and operating costs for:
(1) Strengthening the recently created Directorate of Planning and within it
the Divisions of Policy, Planning and Interinstitutional Relations and
the Directorate of Protected Areas. The project would finance
advisors in international agreements, participation, indigenous issues,
and NGOs, policy and protected area management.
(2) Advice, studies, consultations and dissemination for the elaboration of
legal proposals, regulations and studies covering the following themes:
(a) regulation of General Environment Law; (b) proposal and regulation
of a Protected Area and/or Biodiversity Law; (c) proposal and
regulation of a Forestry Law; (d) contributions to the proposal and
regulation of a Fishery Law; (e) legal or regulatory initiatives for the
harmonization of decentralization, natural resources and indigenous
peoples legislation; (g) analysis of relations between rural poverty and
environmental degradation and other unidentified studies.
(3) Strenghtening the Regional Delegations of MARENA in Le6n and
Chinandega and in the Atlantic region to enable them to perform their
functions under the project in support of components I and III.
(4) Elaboration, consultations and dissemination of Municipal
Environment and Land Use Plans (3 plans) for Le6n, Chinandega and
San Carlos. The ELUPs are an important contribution to the Municipal
Development Component as they will make information available to
local governments and communities regarding environmental risks and
threats and areas of highest potential productivity.
(5) Elaboration, consultations and dissemination of an Environment and
Land Use Plan for the Atlantic including the delineation of the Atlantic
Biodiversity Corridor (see Component III). The Atlantic ELUP will be a



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 18 of 21
law information tool for MARENA to advise other government agencies
on the environmental risks from investments such as roads, forests and
mining concessions and will also guide investment decisions in the
Atlantic under component I.
(6) An informal Environment Threats Monitoring System based on
infornation to be provided by local governments, indigenous and non-
indigenous communities and local representatives of central agencies.
The environment and land use plans would start at the beginning of the
project. Supported by national level land use and soils data, upon project startup in each
participating municipality, the project would finance a Municipal-level process, the
objective of which would be to bring together municipal government, technical
professionals, communities, NGOs, cooperatives, associations, etc., to: (1) prioritize
natural resource protection, conservation, and management needs; (2) identify geographic
and thematic opportunities for enhancing income through improved resource management
within those needs; (3) identify positive experiences with technologies and systems in the
zone for natural resource protection, conservation, and management needs and for
enhancing income through improved resource management; (4) diagnose specific areas
and needs for training and capacitation of professionals and technicians in order
implement priority activities; and (5) identify and map areas subject to specific
environmental risks. As part of the process, multidisciplinary teamns would be contracted
to carry out field diagnostics, including the identification of environmentally sensitive or
critical zones. The output from this process would be an instrument to be utilized in the
local microproject approval process.
(B) Inter-institutional Assistance Program (US$2.1 million)
The NEAP identified lack of capacity to design, implement and
enforce environmental policy as the key problem underlying environmental
degradation in Nicaragua and called for an integrated program of multi-
institutional support to increase capacity of several agencies in Nicaragua to
handle environmental issues. The objective of this component is to increase the
capacity of MARENA to assist other government agencies with implementation
and enforcement of environmental policies.
The project would finance consultants, seminars and workshops, study
tours and minor equipment to assist MARENA in providing technical support
services to the (1) National Assembly on elaboration or review of legislative
proposals related to natural resources and environment and related topics; (2)
Judiciary on developing curricula, training trainers, developing training materials
and training of about sixty Supreme Court and other judges on environmental
matters; (3) Office of the Attorney General with the establishment of an
Environmental Affairs Unit; (4) police environmental units on developing
curricula, training trainers and developing training materials on control of illegal
logging, wildlife trade and contamination from mining and other industries; (5)
army environmental units on developing curricula, training trainers and
developing training materials on monitoring of turtle landings, forest fires control
and monitoring of resource degradation and protected areas; (6) legal offices of
central government agencies on training and technical assistance on



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 19 of 21
environmental and natural resources legislation and regulation; and (7) thirty-two
municipal governments on training trainers, developing training materials,
training and technical assistance on the municipal role and responsibilities in
natural resource and environmental management, including local natural resource
taxation and environmental planning.
Component III. Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor
Background and Rationale
The Atlantic slope of Nicaragua is biologically an extremely rich area of
lowland tropical rain forests, coastal wetlands, pine savannas, and higher altitude pine-
oak forests. These ecoregions and ecosystems have high global importance on their own
merits, but in addition, they form part of a critical link in a larger Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor (MBC) linking North America, Central America, and South
America. Although this area in Nicaragua is one of the most intact natural areas
remaining in Central America, there is no assurance that key components will be
protected in the long-term as part of a viable protected areas system. It is now threatened
by colonists spilling over to the Atlantic from Nicaragua's more densely inhabited Pacific
slope.
The Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor (ABC) represents the Nicaraguan portion
of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor. Support for an ABC has long been a national
priority in Nicaragua. The Tropical Forestry Action Plan and the National
Environmental Action Plan, both completed in the early 1990's, explicitly recognized the
importance of strengthening protected areas in the Atlantic slope and maintaining the
intactness of this last large area of natural habitat in Central America. Nicaragua's
Ministry of the Environment (MARENA) has issued a draft version of the country's
Biodiversity Strategy and this document is now undergoing a process of public
consultation. The Strategy document identifies the ABC as a top national biodiversity
priority.
There is widespread concern among national, regional, and local governments
that the current patterns of frontier development on the Atlantic slope are unsustainable,
non-economic and are the source of substantial social problems. Moreover, there is
insufficient control over logging and mining concessions in the region, in part because
Nicaragua has not yet put in place the legal and institutional framework to minimize
environmental risks from these activities, which could become potentially important in
the Atlantic. More importantly there are serious issues of indigenous land and natural
resources tenure.
Large portions of these ecoregions in the proposed ABC are presently
included in protected areas. However, in most of these protected areas, there are no
management activities, protection is weak or non-existent, the legal status is unclear,
there is legal confusion over indigenous rights and responsabilities and the actual
boundaries on the ground are ill-defined and unmarked. Support for protected areas and
their buffer zones in this part of Nicaragua is being provided by a variety of donors and
aid agencies including USAID, GTZ, the European Union, the Danish, Dutch, Canadian,
and Austrian governnents, The Nature Conservancy (TNC), World Wildlife Fund
(WWF), the Caribbean Conservation Corporation, and others.



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 20 of 21
Objectives
This component (associated project) seeks to ensure the long-term
conservation and sustainable use of the biodiversity resources of an Atlantic Biodiversity
Corridor (ABC) through the Atlantic slope of Nicaragua. Such a corridor would be a
critical link in a larger Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC). The Nicaraguan
ecoregions and ecosystems within the proposed ABC have high global importance on
their own merits and as a whole, represent the most intact natural habitats remaining in
Central America.
Component Description
To achieve the objectives outlined above, the proposed project is organized
into three components. The definition of the ABC itself is one face of a multi-faceted land
use strategy for the entire Atlantic slope. This planning exercise, taking into account both
biological and socioeconormic considerations, is currently being undertaken with GON
and GEF Project Development Fund (PDF) resources. The three components are:
(A) Involvement of Local Communities, Indigenous Groups, NGOs and
Governments in Biodiversity Management
The project would finance consultants and training for: (i) development of and
promoting the project with indigenous and non-indigenous communities in the Atlantic
region; (ii) training indigenous and non-indigenous communities in sustainable
biodiversity use and protection; (iii) assisting indigenous committees in pursuing formal
recognition for their land and natural resources rights; (iv) training and technical
assistance to NGOs, and municipal and regional governments for the implementation of
the ABC strategy; and (v) training of central government agencies on the ABC strategy.
An Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) is currently under preparation.
(B) Biodiversity Planning, Information, Monitoring and Evaluation
The project would finance equipment, consultants, studies, workshops, training
and dissemination materials, travel expenses and incremental salaries and other recurrent
costs for (i) continuing the ABC planning activities; (ii) implementing a biodiversity
monitoring system in coordination with communities and local and regional governments
to warn of threats to biodiversity; and (iii) establishing a system for evaluating potential
impacts on the ABC of development activities such as roads and other infrastructure and
logging, mining and fishing concessions and for proposing and enforcing mitigating
measures.
(C) Financial Mechanism for the Sustainability of the ABC2
The project would finance equipment, consultants, training, workshops,
seminars, studies and study tours for: (i) the operation of a financing mechanism to
promote the long-term sustainability of the ABC including fund rising; and (ii) grants for
sub-projects covering the following themes:
2      The nature of the financing mechanism Nill be defined during preparation of this
component.



Annex 4
Project Description
Page 21 of 21
* Management of protected areas, including infrastructure, training,
management plans and recurrent costs related to the maintenance of the
protected areas of Bosawas, Cayos Miskitos and Indio-Maiz and other
protected areas identified as being of high global and national importance.
* Subprojects of sustainable use of biodiversity submitted by indigenous and
non-indigenous communities, municipalities, NGOs and the private sector
for areas included in the ABC in a way similar to the matching grants
described under the Rural Municipalities Component. Matching grants
would only finance subprojects that have a clear positive impact on
biodiversity and the integrity of the ABC, including training and technical
assistance for communities in biodiversity protection and sustainable uses,
demarcation of key areas, biodiversity monitoring and inventories, vigilance
systems, environmental education, ecotourism, sustainable uses of
biodiversity, etc. These subprojects could be financed as quid pro quo
agreements. For example, in exchange for an indigenous community
agreement to patrol and monitor threats to biodiversity in their traditional
lands, the subproject could finance community basic needs such as water,
seeds, etc. More traditional community development projects not specifically
tied to biodiversity would be eligible for financing under the Rural
Municipalities Component.
- Subprojects of demarcation of indigenous territories submitted by indigenous
communities.






NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 5
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES STRATEGY FOR THE ATLANTIC REGION
1. OVERVIEW OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
In 1993, the estimated indigenous population of Nicaragua was 231,727
inhabitants, representing 5.2 percent of the total. The greatest concentration of indigenous
people is found in the Atlantic region where Miskito, Sumu, Rama and Garifona peoples live.
The Miskito, with over 110,00 people, are the most numerous of indigenous peoples. In fact,
in 1993, they represented over 58 percent of the population of the North Atlantic region and
close to 48 percent of the total indigenous population of the country. In contrast, in the Pacific
region, there are also several indigenous peoples, among them the Subtiaba, Monimb6,
Matagalpa, Sebaco and Jinotega, but they are not as numerous as those in the Atlantic.
In the heavily populated Pacific and Northern regions indigenous groups have had
for a long timne to adapt to the dominant non-indigenous populations and have lost access to
some of their traditional lands and cultural identity. In the Atlantic Coast, on the other hand,
with a low population density and vast areas of pristine habitats, indigenous peoples for the
most part still have access to their traditional territories and have been able to maintain the
essence of their traditional lifestyles.
A fundamental issue that needs to be solved in Nicaragua relates to indigenous land
and natural resources rights. Clarifying these rights could go a long way in contributing to
economic growth in Nicaragua. Until indigenous land and natural resources rights issues are
solved in the resource rich Atlantic it will be impossible for Nicaragua to pursue careful
exploitation and sustainable use of its minerals, forests and fishery. Potential investors will be
scared away, resource values will not be maximized, and conflict and gridlock will prevent
indigenous communities from benefiting fully from resource use and GON from enforcing
important environmental regulations.
The problem is not one of Nicaragua's willingness to advance in the recognition of
indigenous land and natural resources rights. To the contrary, public statements and recent
initiatives demonstrate that there is good will in working towards a solution to these problems.
But due to the less acute social problems in the Atlantic and the formidable task of building a
democracy in a war ravaged and very poor country, indigenous issues have not been a top
priority and efforts have been channeled instead towards land tenure and titling, poverty
alleviation and demobilization of soldiers elsewhere in the country. Moreover, given the
limited capacity of specialized institutions to address the many policy and legal inconsistencies
affecting indigenous peoples rights, advances have been slow.



Annex 5
Indigenous Peoples Strategy for the Atlantic Region
Page 2 of 8
2. OBSTACLES TO THE RECOGNITION OF INDIGENOUS LAND AND
NATURAL RESOURCES RIGHTS IN THE ATLANTIC'
MARENA commissioned two studies to (i) identify main obstacles for advancing
with the recognition of indigenous land and natural resource rights contemplated in the
Constitution; and (ii) to propose a strategy/action plan for the government for removing those
obstacles. These studies were commissioned as part of the Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan for the Atlantic which is required before appraisal of the GEF component (see below).
The main conclusions/recommendations of these studies are briefly summarized below.
The Legal And Institutional Context
There are good prospects for the recognition of indigenous land and natural
resources rights in the Atlantic:
*  There is a solid constitutional and legal basis in the Constitution and
Autonomy Law of 1987 that guarantees the rights of indigenous communities
of the Atlantic to their traditional territories and natural resources contained in
them.
-  There is a clear political will, expressed by various GON agencies and the
President of the Republic, to advance with the recognition of the traditional
rights of indigenous communities over land and use and management of natural
resources in those lands.
*  There is a high level of awareness in the indigenous communities themselves
over their territorial rights as a historical and legal commitment of the State
and an understanding that these rights entail substantial autonomy in the
management of community matters and use and disposition of natural
resources.
*  There is a clear political and administrative conscience of regional governments
of the importance of recognizing traditional indigenous land rights consistently
with historical commitments and existing norms.
*  There are solid indigenous organizations and indigenous representations at the
level of municipal and regional governments that will facilitate the process of
recognizing indigenous land claims.
Main Limitations and Difficulties
There are legal, admrinistrative, technical, socio-economic and cultural obstacles to
advancing with the recognition of indigenous land and natural resources rights.
I      See background report in project file "Viabilidady Condiciones Legales de Cumplimiento de
un Componente de Legalizaci6n de Tierras a las Comunidades Indigenas de la Costa Atldntica
Dentro del Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales - IPDP" by Roque RoldAn, December 1995.



Annex 5
Indigenous Peoples Strategy for the Atlantic Region
Page 3 of 8
Legally the main obstacles are the following:
*  There is no legal scheme defined in the agrarian or indigenous legislation prior
to the Constitution and Autonomy Law of 1987 for the administration of
community lands, other than the one specified under the Civil Code and in
various laws and decrees published since the beginning of the century and
which were applied to the different situation of indigenous conmmunities of the
Pacific. This Civil Code model (communal property) represents a contract
between community members as co-owners of an asset, but is insufficient for
the administration of a territory historically belonging to a culturally
differentiated group, as is the case with communities in the Atlantic. The 1987
Autonomy Law, on the other hand, contemplated the indigenous community
land property right as inalienable and indescriptable and not subject to sale,
donation, seizure or attachment.
*  There is no clarity as to the competencies over property rights, use and
management of natural resources between Central Government, regional
governments and indigenous communities. There are, however, dispersed
throughout various pieces of legislation, enough elements to permit a
clarification of most legal issues affecting indigenous property and natural
resources. Unfortunately this process of legal clarification has not yet taken
place in Nicaragua.
T [NRA is the public entity in charge of titling of agrarian lands and of
redistributing national lands and "tierras baldfas". The agrarian reform titles
issued by INRA have all the restrictions applicable cable to agrarian reform
(size, intended use, etc.). However, in no agrarian legislation is INRA
explicitly given responsibility over assigning commnunity lands to indigenous
communities under community titles. Hence, although the 1995 Constitution
and the 1987 Autonomy Law recognize indigenous rights, there is no agency
explicitly in charge of executing community titles, nor have procedures been
defined for demarcation and titling or certification.
*  There may exist discrepancies between the municipality, a
geographic/administrative unit, and the indigenous territory, subject to its own
community government, once these are created.
*  There may exist conflicts between community natural resources rights obtained
through the process of recognition of community lands and the restrictions
associated with various types of protected areas when these overlap with
indigenous communities.
*  There are no clear procedures for granting juridical personality to communities.
Administratively, lack of procedures for recognizing indigenous land titles creates
a climate of uncertainty that affects key GON agencies with responsibilities that interact with
indigenous communities in the Atlantic, namely INRA, MARENA, MAS and regional
governments. Although all these institutions need to participate in the process of recognizing



Annex 5
Indigenous Peoples Strategy for the Atlantic Region
Page 4 of 8
community lands, the responsibilities and administrative roles of each one have not been
defined.
Technically, there is no definition of the traditional communal lands of each group
nor an inventory of the Atlantic regarding its resources and most appropriate land use. This is
important to estimate the size of the territories needed by communities to ensure subsistence.
There are different views regarding the types of territorial or land rights that should be
recognized to communities: by community, by ethnic group, by watershed. There is no
definition of the most appropriate methods for measuring territories: traditional topography,
aerophotography, mapping or a combination of these.
Socially, there is no clarity over how to handle the cases of minority communities
that have already lost some of their territories, either because traditional lands were assigned to
settlers or occupied by other indigenous communities. There is an incomplete inventory,
although some inforrnation does exist, about conflicts between different indigenous
communities or groups of communities in particular regarding the use of trails and natural
resources in the areas claimed. Such an inventory is essential for the definition of conflict
resolution mechanisms as part of the procedures for legal recognition of indigenous land titles.
Culturally, there is lack of information about the community organization and
government that would facilitate the definition of the management model for lands under
commnunity and the customary law management.
Key recommendations for government
The study's key recommendations for GON were the following:
(1) To finalize the collection and analysis of legal instruments related to
indigenous land and natural resource rights, including (i) treaties and
agreements with foreign governments; (ii) Constitutional texts, laws, decrees
and other legal initiatives of the State that affect the lifestyle of indigenous
communities, and traditional forms of government and land tenure; (iii)
decisions of the judicial system related to the rights of indigenous
communities; (iv) official opinions of central government on the matter; and
(v) agrarian legislation applied to indigenous communities of the Pacific.
(partially done in background study)
(2) To carry out a complete inventory of all land titles granted in the Atlantic for
both indigenous and non-indigenous inhabitants and in particular titles granted
under the Harrison-Altmirano Treaty, Agrarian Reform titles, and titles
granted by the judicial system.
(3) To carry out a compilation of customary law.
(4) To conclude the diagnostics of the ethnic groups of the Atlantic initiated by
INRA and MARENA.
(5) To carry out an inventory of territories available to sustain the livelihoods of
minority conmmunities such as the Sumus, Rama and Garifonas.



Annex 5
Indigenous Peoples Strategy for the Atlantic Region
Page 5 of 8
(6) To propose a law defining the property regime for indigenous conmnunities
referred to in Article 107 of the Constitution (tentatively referred to in here as
the Indigenous Land Law) and clarifying the rights that indigenous
communities in their lands have over forests, water, wildlife, etc.
(7) To clarify the responsibilities and obligations of indigenous commnunities, the
regional government and MARENA in the administration of natural resources
in indigenous lands and include these responsibilities in the proposed
Indigenous Land Law and in legislation affecting natural resources.
(8) To review various legislative initiatives related to natural resources (forestry,
water, fisheries, protected areas, energy, etc.) to more precisely define aspects
with implications for indigenous peoples and ensure consistency with their
constitutional rights.
(9) To define the procedures for legally recognizing indigenous land rights,
defining responsibilities, community participation, etc., including procedures
for legally recognizing indigenous communities.
(10) To create a special structure involving several agencies under INRA
leadership and including regional support committees and a technical support
group in charge of preparing and reviewing proposals for decisions over the
various indigenous land cases and to ensure coordination between the various
GON agencies and regional governments in the process.
4. GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY FOR DEALING WITH INDIGENOUS LAND
AND NATURAL RESOURCES RIGHTS
Government's Action Plan
GON is presently discussing the results of the studies mentioned above as well as
other similar studies commissioned by INRA and plans to carry out workshops to generate a
broad consensus over priorities for action and assignment of institutional responsibilities for
their execution. This Action Plan, expected to be completed before appraisal of the GEF
project, and to constitute an integral part of the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan being
prepared under the GEF component, would be supported by IDA through country dialogue in
the context of the CAS due in 1997, and by on-going and proposed operations namely (i) the
Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project (Credit No. 2536-NI); (ii) the
Nicaragua Indigenous Peoples IDF Grant No. 028902; (iii) the proposed IDA financed
project; and (iv) the proposed GEF financed project. Preparation funds for the GEF project
would help finance the workshops for the preparation of the Action Plan.
Country dialogue
The issue of how to support GON in the medium-term (1997-2000) in advancing
with the recognition of indigenous land rights would be discussed in the context of the Country
Assistance Strategy due in FY97. If needed and agreed by GON and IDA the FY97 CAS
would more specifically detail the future IDA strategy for assisting GON with this issue.



Annex 5
Indigenous Peoples Strategy for the Atlantic Region
Page 6 of 8
Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project (Credit No. 2536-NI)
INRA, one of the two implementing agencies of this on-going project, is completing
an action plan for solving technical, legal and procedural obstacles to recognition of
indigenous land rights and awarding of indigenous titles and is also carrying out a diagnostic
study of indigenous people in the Atlantic region. INRA is likely to be the lead agency chosen
for advancing with this issue although it needs to be supported through a higher level
comrnmission including other GON agencies, narnely MARENA, MAS, INETER and Regional
Governments and representatives of key stakeholders. INRA is presently reprogramming its
activities in the context of the on-going project to give a higher priority to indigenous land
titling during its second phase, which is about to start.
Indigenous Peoples IDF Grant No. 028902
The Indigenous Peoples Grant being implemented by MAS includes training and
workshops for indigenous peoples on a variety of issues. Aspects of indigenous land and
natural resources rights are being included in the thematic topics covered.
Proposed IDA and GEF projects
As discussed elsewhere in this report the proposed project includes two distinct
operations to be processed under separate project cycles: the Municipal Development
Component and the Natural Resources and Policies Component, to be supported by IDA, and
the Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor Component, to be supported by GEF. For ease of
exposition the IDA components will be referred to as the IDA project and the ABC component
as the GEF project. Geographically the proposed IDA project is split between the Westem
Region (Le6n and Chinandega), where 90% of the community investments would take place,
and the Atlantic Region with 10% or US$2.5 million ear-mark-ed for community development
activities. The GEF project would take place entirely in the Atlantic and would be the main
mechanisms for channeling funds for this region. The reason for the split of the IDA project is
because IDA project funds are needed for the Atlantic for assistance to indigenous
conmmunities with their development needs. Only 10% are allocated to the Atlantic because the
region is sparsely populated, people are less poor than in the Western region, and local
implementation capacity is more limited.
Consistently with the proposed calendar for the IDA and GEF projects, GON
decided during preparation to carry out a Social Assessment/Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan for the IDA project focused on Leon and Chinandega. The Social Assessment/Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan for the Atlantic would be carried out as part of preparation for the
GEF project. This split was necessary in light of the different timing of the two operations and
the need to better define the GEF project, including the delineation of the biodiversity corrioor,
before a meaningful Social Assessment/IPDP could be developed. IDA disbursements for
subprojects in the Atlantic would be conditional on the GEF project becoming effective,
including the subrnission to IDA/GEF of an acceptable Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
for the Atlantic.



Annex 5
Indigenous Peoples Strategy for the Atlantic Region
Page 7 of 8
Proposed GEF project
The GEF project would benefit indigenous communities as well as benefit from
their activities. Sustainable use of natural resources by indigenous peoples is consistent with
conservation of biodiversity and indigenous peoples would benefit from increased
environmental protection since this would reduce the threats on their resources from logging,
mining and fishing interests. The GEF project, which includes protected areas in the Atlantic,
raises some issues, however, related to indigenous peoples traditional natural resource use
rights in the context of biodiversity protection inside and outside of protected areas, and thus
includes two specific components to address these issues.
First, protection of biodiversity in indigenous traditional territories inside or outside
protected areas in the Atlantic would be achieved through quid pro quo agreements with
indigenous communities which have historical rights to vast areas to be included in the
biodiversity corridor. Second, a project component would finance activities to involve
indigenous communities in biodiversity protection and to assist them with community land
demarcation and natural resource management plans.
The Social Assessment/Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for the Atlantic
would comprise four main parts: (i) an analysis of the legal framework affecting indigenous
peoples, review of their organizations and institutional responsibilities, already completed (see
report entitled "Viabilidad y Condiciones Legales de Cunmplimiento de un Componente de
Legalizacion de Tierras a las Comunidades Indigenas de la Costa Atl6ntica dentro del
Proyecto de Manejo de Recursos Naturales" by Roque Roldan summarized above); (ii) an
Action Plan being developed by GON through workshops for prioritizing next steps in
addressing the legal constraints mainly for land titling and assigning institutional
responsibilities for their execution (see above); (iii) a participation plan to fully involve
indigenous communities in the design and implementation of the GEF component; and (iv) a
social assessment including rapid rural appraisals of non-indigenous communities in the
Atlantic and a participation plan for these communities.
Proposed IDA project
The proposed IDA project does not pose noticeable risks for indigenous
communities. On the contrary, although not specifically targeting indigenous communities, it
has built in mechanisms to give indigenous communities equal access to the project's resources
as non-indigenous communities and to support and strengthen all rural communities.
Nevertheless a Social Assessment/Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for the Sutiaba
community in Leon was carried out during the preparation of the proposed project to improve
the design of the participatory mechanisms included in the project. The results of the Social
Assessment/IPDP for Leon and Chinandega were summarized in Annex 3.
The technical assistance program to be managed by MARENA would include
improving the policy framework for natural resources including contributions to legislative
proposals under discussion in Nicaragua consistent with the constitutional rights of indigenous
communities and the constitutional principles of decentralization. The results of the studies
and analysis to be supported by the project would be disseminated, consulted and discussed
through workshops and other events with civic society. The IDA project would support a



Annex 5
Indigenous Peoples Strategy for the Atlantic Region
Page 8 of 8
person in MARENA in charge of participation and relations with NGOs and an indigenous
expert responsible for interaction with indigenous commnunities.
The technical assistance program (IDA and GEF) would also finance a land use
plan for the Atlantic that would include land use potentials and a preliminary identification of
indigenous traditional territories (IDA project budget:USS 120,000). This plan, which would
be approved by INETER, the agency officially responsible for demarcation of indigenous
territories, would be extensively consulted and discussed with indigenous communities and
regional governnents. The program also includes budget for studies of social and indigenous
issues to be carried out during the project's first year (total budget US$155,000).
The possibility of extending the IDA project investment activities (Rural
Municipalities Development Component) to the entire RAAN and RAAS for the benefit of
indigenous communities was included in project design (total budget: US$2.3 million) subject
to the GEF project becoming effective, and the submission to IDA of an Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan. An Environmental and Land Use Plan acceptable to IDA is also scheduled
to be completed by December 31, 1997. Although financial resources are not the key
constraint to the process of recognizing indigenous land and natural resource rights, the
proposed IDA project would make funds available to communities for a wide range of
subprojects to be proposed by the communities themselves, including technical and legal
assistance for the elaboration of community demarcation and natural resource management
proposals. These funds would be available both to indigenous communities in the Atlantic
region and to the Sutiaba in Le6n. This project component also includes funds for training
indigenous and non-indigenous commnunities on a wide range of topics and for participation,
dissemination and information activities for which indigenous communities would be eligible.
Project annual reviews would include assessments of progress made in the
preparation/implementation of the IPDP.



NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 6
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN
The proposed project is essentially beneficial to the environment since its objectives
include improving the policy and institutional framework for natural resources, improving
natural resource management at the local level, reducing the pressures on the Atlantic frontier
and protecting biodiversity in the Atlantic through the associated GEF project.
Environmental risks posed by the project, although minor, are associated with some
of the sub-project categories to be financed and the decentralization process to be supported by
the project. A mitigation plan for sub-projects was included in the sub-project cycle and is
described in Annex 4 and in the Operational Manual. An important instrument for managing
environmental risks would be the Environment and Land Use Plans (ELUP) to be developed
during the project's first year both for the Pacific and the Atlantic regions. These plans would
identify areas of high environmental risks and contain other information necessary for
MARENA and the MTUs to make decisions regarding environmental aspects of subprojects.
To minimize environmental risks from decentralization, an environmental
assessment process and mitigation plan at the municipal level, detailing the procedures that
municipalities should adopt to screen out investments that pose high environmental risks or to
include mitigating measures, was developed by INIFOM as part of the preparation for the
proposed project. The procedures are described in the project's background document in the
project file: " Sistema de Procedimientos Ambientales para la Gesti6n Ambiental Municipal".
These procedures, once implemented, would apply not only to the municipalities eligible for
the project, but to all municipalities in the country.
Activities in the Atlantic pose higher environmental risks, thus they would only be
initiated once the Environment and Land Use Plan for the Atlantic, including a delineation of
the proposed Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor, is completed. Subprojects in the Atlantic would
have to be consistent with this plan and with the Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor Strategy and
would only start once the associated GEF project becomes effective.






ANNEX 7
PAGE 1 OF 13
NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITES PROJECT
ANNEX 7
PROJECT COSTS
Project Cost Summary
Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Accounts
Components by Years - Base Costs
Components by Years - Totals Costs
Components by Years - Investments and Recurrent Costs
Expenditures by Years - Base Costs
Expenditures by Years - Totals Costs
Components by Financiers
Disbursement by Financiers
Expenditure by Financiers
Allocations of Proceeds
Estimated Disbursements by Semesters



Project Cost Summary                                                                                  ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 13
%        %Ttl
(Cirdob. 00)                         (USS '0)                 Fu4n         Bm
LoCa      7inle        TOtal       laul      Foruin       Total     Eicne         Co
A. Munidpal Dewbopmnt
I.  ha1tu..aJ Development of Municipaltiea
Municipal Technial Units                                            31,937.0    4.071.3    36,008.8     3.992.1      509.0     4,501.1         11          12
Ibstitutional Sueithuig                                              3,447.2    1,08t.0     4.535.2      430.9       136.0       566.9         24           1
Subto  Istlitutonal Delopn Mnt of Munkipalltits                        35,384.2    5,159.8    40,544.0     4,423.0      645.0     5,068.0         13          13
2. InfonmtioFn, Particiption aid Training                              19,723.2      724.8    20.448.0     2,465.4       90.6    2X556.0           4           7
3. Camuosity and Munidipalty Sub-projeeb
Subpmojcts in thc Pacific Regon                                    143,669.9    24,788.8   168,458.7    17,958.7   3,098.6    21,057.3         15          54
Subprojects in the Atlartic Region                                  16,020.1    Z827.2    13,841.0    2,002.6        353.4     2,356.0         15           6
Subtotal Conuuunity and Municipality Sub-projects                     159,690.7    27,616.0   187,306.7    19,961.3   3,452.0    23,413.3         15          60
4. Institional Development of NIFOM                                    20,094.4    4,265.6    24,360.0     2,511.8      533.2     3,045.0         18           X
Subtotal Municipal Developcent                                           234,892.6    37,766.2   272,658.7    29,361.6   4,720.8    34,082.3         14          88
B. Natural Resources Polky Reform and Institutions
I Sltrihewig ofMARENA                                                  17,461.2    4,009.2    21,477.4     2,183.5      501.2     2,684.7         19           7
2. Inter-institutional Assistance Progan                               11,554.0    3,939.6    15,493.6     1,444.3      492.5     1,936.7         25           5
Subtotal Natural Resoures Policy Reform and Institutions                  29,022.2    7,941.8    36,971.0     3,627.8      993.6     4,621.4         22          12
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                     263,914.7    45,715.0   309,629.7    32,989.3    5,714.4    38,703.7         15         100
Physical Contuigencies                                                  5,784.0      910.3     6,764.3      723.0       122.5       845.5         14           2
Price Contingencies                                                    25,98S.1    3,454.9    29,443.1      777.5       105.1       882.5         12           2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                      295,686.8    50,150.3   345,837.1    34,419.8    5,942.0    40.431.8         15         104



Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Accounts                                                                            ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 13
% TOtW
(C6rdoba '000)                                      (USS '000)                      Foreign       Bane
Local           Foreign           Total            Local          Foreign          Total        Exchange      Costs
L Investment Costs
A, Civil Works                                               1,773.6               -            1,773.6          221.7              *            221.7                        I
B Machinery and Equipment                                    2,166.3         3,752.9           5,919.2           270.8          4691             7399            63           2
C. Vehicles                                                   757.8          4,294.2           5,052.0            947           5368             631.5           85           2
D. Technical Asistance
International TA                                           600.0          4,272.0           4,872.0            75.0          5340             609.0          S8            2
National TA                                              36,874.0               -          36,874.0          4,609.3             -          4.609 3                       12
Subtotal Technical Assistance                               37,474.0         4,272.0          41,746.0          4,684.3         534.0          5,2183            10          13
E. Training                                                 15,275.2               -           15,275.2         1,909.4             -           1,909.4                       5
F CommunityandMunicipalitySub-projecus                     159,6907         27,616.0         187,306.7         19,961.3        3,452.0        23,413.3           15          60
Total Investment Costs                                        217,137.6        39.935.1         257,072.7         27,142 2        4,991.9        32,1341            16          83
IL Recurrent Costs
A OperationandMaintcnance                                   21,457.1         5,779.9          27,237.0          2,682.1         722.5          3,4046            21           9
B Incremental Salanes                                       25,320.0               -          25,320.0          3,165.0             -          31650              -           8
Total Recurrent Costs                                          46,7T7.1         5,779.9          52,557.0          5,8471          722.5          6,569.6           11          17
Total BASELINECOSTS                                            263,914.7        45,715.0         309,6297          32,989.3        5,714.4        38,703 7           15         100
Physical Contingencies                                       5,7S4.0           980.3           6.7643            723.0          1225             845.5           14           2
Price Contingencics                                         25,9881          3,454.9          29,443.1           777.5          105.1            8825            12           2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            295,686.8        50,150.3         345.837 1         34,489.8        5,942.0        40,431 8           15         104



Components by Years - Base Costs                                                                                 ANNEX 7
(USS '000)                                                                                   Page 4 of 13
Base Cost
96-97          97/98           98199           99100           00/01            Total
A. Municipal Development
1. Institutional Development of Municipalities
Municipal Technical Units                                                830.2         1.06S.0           881.0            866.0          8560           4,501.1
Institutional Strengthening                                              225.2          133 1            106.6             90.6           11.6            566.9
Subtotal Institutional Development otMunicipalities                        1,055.4        1,201.0           987.6            956.6          867.6          5,068.0
2 Information, Participation and Training                                   609.0           769.0           591.0            301 0          286.0           2,556.0
3. Community and Municipality Sub-projects
Subprojects in the Pacific Region                                       1,037.1        2,367.7          6,783.5         7,050.9         3,818.3        21,057.3
Subprojects in the Atlantic Region                                           -          359.6            787.4            849.4          359.6          2,356.0
Subtotal Community and Municipality Sub-projects                           1,037.1        2,727.3          7,570.9         7,900.3         4,177.9        23,413.3
4 Institutional Development of lNIFOM                                      1.2384           600.8           511.6            347.1          347.1           3,045.0
Subtotal Municipal Development                                                3,939.9        5,298.1          9,661.0         9,504.9         5,678.5         34,082.3
B. Natural Resources Policy Reform and Institutions
I StrengtheningofMARENA                                                     886.6          606.5            5187             336.4          3364           2,6847
2 Inter-institutional Assistance Program                                    901.4           340.8           279.2            270.2          145.2           1,936.7
Subtotal Natural Resourci Policy Reform and Institutions                      1,788.0          947.3           797.8            606.6          481.6          4,621.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                           5,727.9        6,245.3         10,458.8        10.111.5        6,160.1         38,703.7
Physical Contingencies                                                      1674            199.6           164.8            159.4          1543             845.5
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                                                 137.3          484.2            714.7            844.9         1,047 8          3,228.9
Foreign                                                                13.1           22.8             26.3             21.7           21.1            105.1
Subtotal Inflation                                                       150.3           507.0           741 0            866.7         1,068.9         3,334.0
Devaluation                                                              -101.5        -360.8           -538.5           -643.6         -807.1         -2,451.4
Subtotal Price Contingencies                                                 48.9          146.2            202.6            223.0          261.8            882.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                            5,944.2        6,591.2         10,S26.3        10,494.0         6,576.2        40,431.8
Taxes                                                                        42.1            99.7            68.4             71.0           72.8            354.0
Foreign Exchange                                                           1,112.9        1.012.8          1.5586           1,437.9         819.8           5,942.0



Components by Years - Total Costs                                                                               ANNEX 7
(USS '000)                                                                                  Page 5 of 13
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97          97/98          98/99            9/00           00/01          Total
A. Municipal Development
1. Institutional Development of Municipalities
Municipal Techmical Units                                                 907.5        1,208.0          1,025.0          1,035.2       1,049.8          5,225.5
Institutional Strengthening                                               234.2          141.0           114.1             995            13.4           602.3
Subtotal Institutional Development orMunicipalities                         1,141.7       1,349.1          1,139.0         1.134.7        1,063.2          5,827.8
2 Information, Participation and Trairung                                    635 6          829.0           659 7            358 4          350.9          2,833.5
3. Community and Municipality Sub-projects
Subprojects in the Pacific Region                                        1,037.1       2,367.7          6,7835          7,050 9        3,818.3         21,057.3
Subprojects in the Atlantic Region                                            -          359 6           787 4            849 4          359 6          2,356.0
Subtotal Community and Municipality Sub-projects                           1,037.1        2,727.3          7,570.9         7,9003         4,177.9         23,4133
4 Institutional Development oflNIFOM                                        1,273.4         6400            559.0            393.5          403 7          3,269.6
Subtotal Municipal Development                                                4,0878         5,545.3          9,928.5         9,786.9        5,995 7         35,344 2
B. Natural Resources Policy Reoron and Institutions
I StrengLheningofMARENA                                                      9359           669.8           5799             3910           401.2          2,9778
2. Inter-institutional Assistance Program                                    920.5          3761            317.8            3160           179.3          2,109.8
Subtotal Natural Resources Policy Reform and Institutions                     1,856.4        1,045.9           897.8            707.1          580 5          5,087 6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                            5,944 2        6,591 2         10,826.3        10,494 0        6,576 2        40,431 8



Components by Years - Investment and Recurrent Costs                                                                              ANNEX 7
(USS '000)                                                                                     Page 6 of 13
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97          97/98           9U/99            99/00            00/01           Total
A. Municipal Development
1. Insitutional Development of Municipalities
Munidpal Technical Units
Investment Costs                                                          275.2          302.5              96.0             82 1           71 8            827.6
Recurrent Costs                                                           632.3          905.5             929.0            953.2          978.0           4,397.9
Subtotal Municipsi Technical Units                                           907.5         1,208.0          1,025.0          1,035.2         1,049 8          5,225 5
Institutional Strengthening
Investrncnt Costs                                                         234.2          141.0             114.1             99.5           134             6023
Subtotal Institutional Development ofMunicipalities                            1,141.7        1,349.1          1,1390            1,134.7        1,063.2          5,827.8
2. Infortnation, Participation and Training
Investment Costs                                                             558.7           7192             547.0            242.9          2324            2,300.2
Recurrent Costs                                                               76.9           109.8            112.6            115.5          118.5            533.3
Subtotal Information, Participation and Training                                635.6           829.0            659.7            358 4          350.9           2,833.5
3. Community and Municipality Sub-projects
Subprojects in the Pacific Region
Investment Costs                                                        1,037.1         2,367.7          6.7835           7,050 9        3.8183          21,057 3
Subprojects in the Atlantic Region
Investment Costs                                                              -          359.6            787 4             849.4          359.6           2,356 0
Subtotal Community and Municipality Sub-projects                               1,037.1        2,727.3          7,570.9          7,9003          4,1779          23,4133
4. Institutional Development or IN3FOM
Investment Costs                                                             943.3           496.3            411 5            242.2          248.5           2,341.9
Recurrent Costs                                                              330.1           143.7            147.4            151.3          155.2            927.7
Subtotal Institutional Development of LN1FOM                                  1273.4           640.0            559.0            393 5          403 7           3,269.6
Subtotal Municipal Development                                                    4,087.8        5,545.3          9,928 5          9,786.9         5,995 7         35,344.2
B. Natural Resources Policy Reform and Institutions
I. Strengthening of MARENA
Investment CosLs                                                             779.0          455.4             3494             153.6          157.6           1,895.0
Recurrent Costs                                                              156.9           214.4            230.5            237.4          243.6           1,0S2.8
Subtotal Strengthening ofNMARENA                                                935 9           669.8            579.9            391.0          4012            2,977.8
2. Inter-institutional Assistance Program
Investment Costs                                                             824.7          235.8             1505             139.5              -           1,350.5
Recurrent Costs                                                               958            140.3            167.3            176.6           1793            759.3
Subtotal Inter-institutional Assistance Program                                 920.5           376.1            317.8            316.0          179.3           2,109.8
Subtotal Natural Resources Policy Reform and Institutions                         1,856.4         1,045.9           897.8            707.1           580.5          5,087.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                5,944.2        6,591.2         10,826.3         10,494.0         6,576.2         40,431 8
Total Investment Costs                                                         4,652.2        5,077.5          9,239.3          8,860.0         4,901 6         32,730.7
Total Recurrent Costs                                                          1,292.0        1,513.7          1,5S6.9          1,634.0         1,674.6          7.701 1



Expenditures by Years - Base Costs                                                                                  ANNEX 7
(USS '000)                                                                                     Page 7 of 13
Ba Cost                                                    FlmI E _eba.
9d/97          971nno          96m              99^o             0l              Tomsl           %           A_nt
L Investnent Costs
A. Civil Works                                                 10-0          211.7                *                                             221.7
B. Madcinery ad Equinie                                       584.6          142.3              13.0                -                           739.9        63.4           469.1
C. Vdeicles                                                   393.5           17t.0            30.0              30.0              -            631.5         85.0          536.3
D. Tenmical Axsatence
Interational TA                                            260.0          130.0            187.0             32.0               -            609.0        87.7           534.0
National TA                                              1,336.6         1,232.1          1,031.1           570.1           439.6          4,609.3           -               -
SubtotalTe bcal Asistance                                  1,596.6         1,362.1          1.21X.1           602.1           439.6           5,218.3       10.2           534.0
E Taining                                                     927.2          300.1            274.1             221.6          186.6           1,909.4          -               -
F. Conununity and Municipality Sub-projects                 1,037.1         2,727.3          7,570.9          7,900.3        4,177.9         23,413.3        14.7         3,452.0
Totel lnvestnent Coats                                         4,549.0         4,921.4          9,106.0          8,753.9         4,804.0         32.134.1        15.5         4,991.9
U. Recurrent Coats
A Opercation and Maintenance                                  653.9          664.0            692.9            6977            696.2          3,404.6        21.2           722.5
B Incremental Salaries                                        525 0          660.0            660.0            660.0           660.0           3,165.0          -
Total Recurrent Coats                                           1,178.9        1,324.0          1,352.9          1,357.7         1,356.2          6,569.6        11.0          722.5
TotalBASELINECOSTS                                              5,727.9         6,245.3         10,45.8S         10,111.5        6,160.1          3t,703.7        14.8        5,714.4
Physical Contingencics                                        167.4          199.6             164.8            159.4          154.3             45 5         14.5          122.5
Price Contingencies
Inflatin
Local                                                   137.3          4U.2             714.7            344.9          1,047.8         3,228.9
Foreipg                                                  13.1           22.3             26.3             21.7            21.1            105.1       100.0           105.1
Subtofallnflatin                                           150.3          507.0            741.0            966.7         1.06C.9          3,3340          3.2           105.1
Devalualion                                               -101.5         -360.8            -538.5          .643.6          407.1          -2,451.4           -
Subtotal Price Continencies                                    48.9          146.2            202.6            223.0           261.8            n2.5         11.9           105.1
Tot PROJECT COSTS                                               5,944.2         6,591.2         10,826.3         10,494.0        6,576.2         40,43128        14.7         5,942.0
Taxes                                                          42.1           99.7             68.4              71.0           72.8            354.0
Forep End-e                                                 1,112.9         1,01Z2           1,558.6          1,437.9          819.8          5.942.0           -               -



Expenditures by Years - Total Costs                                                                                 ANNEX 7
(USS '000)                                                                                     Page 8 of 13
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97          97/98           98/99            99/00            00/01           Total
1 Invcstment Costs
A. Civil Works                                               10.0           242.0                -                -              -            252.0
B. Machinery and Equipment                                  609 8           155.3             14.6                -              -            779.7
C. Vehicles                                                 418 5           194.3             33.6             34.5              -            60 9
D. Technical Assistance
[ntemational TA                                          262.4           135.1            199.4             35.0              -            631.9
National TA                                             1,353 9        1,280.5          1,099.5           623.7           493.4           4,851.0
SubtotalTechnicalAssistance                                1,6163         1,415.6          1,298.9            658.7          493.4           5,482.9
E. Training                                                 960.4           343.0            321.5            266.6          230.3           2.121.9
F. Community and Municipality Sub-projects                 1,037.1        2,727.3          7,570.9          7,900.3         4,1779          23,41333
Total Investment Costs                                        4,652.2        5,077 5          9,239.3          8,860.0         4,901.6         32.730 7
IL Recurrent Costs
A Operation and Maintenance                                 7070           759 1             812.7            839.6          859.6           3,978 1
B Incremental Salaries                                      585.0           754.6            774.2            794.3          815.0           3,723.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                         1,292.0        1,5137           1,586.9          1,634.0         1,674.6          7.701.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            5,944 2        6,591.2         10,826.3         10,494.0         6,576 2         40.431 8



Components by Financiers                                                                                 ANNEX 7
(USS '000)                                                                                  Page 9 of 13
EDA           Municipalities       Beneficiaries          GON               Total                           (Exd      Dutie &
Amount    %       Amount    %          Amount       %     Amount    %       Amount    %        For. Exch      Taxes)     Taxes
A. Municipal Development
1. Institutional Development or Municipalities
Municipal Technical Units                                2,541.5  48.6        955.6  18.3              -    -       1,728.4  33.1    5,225 5   12.9         576.5    4,5069       142.1
Insuitulional Strergthening                               5971  99.1              -    -               -    -          5.1   0.9       602.3    1 5          145.7     456.5          -
Subtotal Institutional Development of Municipalities        3,138.6  53.9        955.6  16.4                    -      1,733.6  29.7    5,827.8  14.4          722.2    4.963.4      142.1
2 Infonation, Paiticipation and Training                    2,566.2  90.6            -    -               -    -        267.3   9.4     2,833 5    70           106.7   2,726.8          -
3. Community and Municipality Sub-projects
SubprojectsinthePacificRegion                           15,493.1  73.6       1,616.5  7.7         3,947.7  18.7          -     -    21,057.3  52.1         3,098.6   17,958.7
Subprojects inthe Atlantic Region                        1,7112  72.6         186.0  7.9           458.8  19.5           -    -      2,356.0   5.8          353.4   2,002.6           -
Subtotal Community and Municipality Sub-projects           17,204.3  73.5       1,.02.5  7.7         4,406.5  15.h          -    -    23,413.3  57.9          3.452.0   19,961.3         -
4 lnsttutionalDcvelopmentoflNFOM                            2,891.7  88.4            .    -               -    -        377.9  11.6     3,269.6   8.1          565.9   2,696.0         7.7
Subtotal Municipal Development                                25,800.8  73.0       2,758.1  78          4,406.5  12.5    2,378.7   67     35,344.2  874          4,846.8   30,347.6     149.8
B. Natural Resources Poldky Reform and Institution
I SlrengthenungofMARENA                                     2,415.5  81.1            -    -               -    -        562.3  1.9     2,977.8   7.4          550.6   2,324.3       102.9
2 Inter-institutional Assistance Proarn                     1,784.7  84.6            -    -                     -       325.1  15.4     2,109.8   5.2          544.6    1,463.9      101.3
Subtotal Natural Resources Policy Reform and Institutions      4.200 2  82.6            -    -               -    .        887.4  17.4     5,087.6  12.6         1,095.2    3,788.2     204.2
Total Disbursement                                             30,001 0  74.2      2,758.1  6.8          4,406.5  10.9    3,266.1   8.1    40.431 8  100.0        5,942.0   34.135.8     354.0



Disbursements by Financiers                                                                                   ANNEX 7
(USS '000)                                                                                   Page 10 of 13
(USS '000)                                                IDA            Muncipalities        Benefidaries          CON               Total                          (Excl      Dutes &
Amount    %         Amount       %      Amount    %    Amount   %           Amount    Y        For. Exeb.    Tates)      Taxs
A. Civil Works
I CW-MA.RENA                                             1029   85.0              -    -              -    -        1.2  15.0       121.0   0.3              -      102.9         18.2
2. CW-INIFOM                                             102.9   85.0               1-         -           -        I.2  15.0        121.0   0.3                     102.9         18.2
Subtobl Civil Works                                         205.7   85.0             -    -              -    -        36.3  15.0       242.0    0.6             -      205.7         36.3
B. Goods /
1. Goods-MARENA                                          182.3  91.0                    -             -    -        5.6   3.0        188.0   0.5          159.8      28.2
2 Goods-INIFOM                                           391.6  97.0                    -             -    -        12.1   3.0       403.7    1.0         343.2       60.6
Subtotal Goods                                              573 9   97.0                                               17.8   3.0       591.7    1.5         502.9       88. 
C. Vehicles
I. MARENA- Vehic.                                       3115   92.5              -    -              -    -       25.3   7.5        336.8    08          286.2       50.5
2. 1NIFOM-Vchic.                                         31B3   92.5              -    -              -    -        25.    7.5       344.1    0.9         292.5       51.6
Subtotal Vehicles                                           629 8   92.5                   -             -    -        51 1   75        680.9    1.7         578.7      102.1            -
D. Consultant Services
I. MARENA                                              2,291.1   76.0             -    -              -    -      722.1  24.0      3,0132    7.5          579.7    2,287.7        145.7
2 INIFOM                                               4,1150  100.0              -    -              -    -          -      -     4115.0   10.2          275.6    3,839.4
Subtotal Consultant Services                              6.406.1   89.9             -    -              -    -       722.1  101       7,128.2   17.6        855.3    6.127.2        1457
E. Training
I MARENA                                                3091   100.0              -    -             -    -           -     -        309.1    0.8          15.6      293.5
2 INIFOM                                               1,028.5  100.0             -    -              -    -          -      -      1,028.5    2 5            -    1,028.5
Subtotal Training                                         1,3376  100.0                                                                1,337.6    33          15.6    1,322.0
F. Community and Municipality Sub-projects               16,8043   73.0         1,802.5  7.8       4,406.5  19.1          -     -    23.013.3   56.9       3,452.0   19,561.3
C. Incremental Recurrent Costs
I MARENA                                                 749   63.8               -    -              -    -       42.5  36.2        117.4    03           23.5       76.3         17.6
2 INIFOM                                               2.468 7   42.4         955.6  16.4             -    -    2,396.4  41.2       5,820.7   14.4        513.9    5,152.4        154.4
SubtotallncrementalRecurrentCosts                         2,5436   42.8          955.6  16.1             -    -    2,438.9  41.1       5,938.1   14.7        537.4    5,22S.7        172.0
H PPF                                                     1,500.0  100.0             -    -              -    -          -      -      1,500.0    3.7            -    1,500.0
Total                                                     30,001.0   74.2        2,758.1  6.8       4,406.5  109     3,266.1   8.1    40,431.8  1000        5,9420   34,135.8         354.0
\a Machinery, Equipment. Vehicles



Expenditures by Financiers                                                                                ANNEX 7
(USS '000)                                                                                Page 11 of 13
IDA            Municipulities       Beneficiaries         CON               Total                           (lxd.      Dutis &
Amount    %         Amount       %      Amount    Y       Amount   %        Amount    %         For. Exch,    Taxes)      Taxes
L Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                         215.7  85.6                                                36.3  14.4       252.0   0.6               -     215.7         36.3
B MachmeayandEquipment                                 761.9  97.7              -    -              -    -         17.8  2.3       779.7   1.9           502.9     276.8            -
C Vehicles                                             629.8  92.5              -    -              -    -        51.1   7.5       680.9    1 7          578.7     102.1
D. Technical Assistance
Intemaronal TA                                      631.9  100.0             -    -              -    -           -     -       631.9   1.6           556.9      75.0
National TA                                       4,851.0  100.0             .     -             .    -           -     -      4,851.0  12.0              -    4.851.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                        5,482.9  100.0                   -                                           5,482.9  13.6          556.9   4,926.0
E Trauung                                            2,121.9  100.0             -     -             -    -           -     -      2.121.9   5.2                   2,1219
F Community and Municipality Sub-projects           17,204.3  73.5         1,802.5  7.7       4,406.5  18.8          -    -    23,413.3  57.9           3,452.0  19,961.3           -
Total Investment Costs                                 26,416.6  80.7         1,802.5   55       4,406.5  13.5      1051   03       32730.7  81.0        5,090.6  27,603.3         36.3
1H. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance                         1,947.4  49.0           955.6  24.0            -    -      1,075 0  270      3,978.1   9.8          851.4   2,809.0        317.7
B Incremental Salaries                               1,637.0  44.0              -     -             -    -      2,086.0  56.0     3,723 0    9.2             -    3,723 0           -
TotalRecurrentCosts                                     3,5845   46.5          955.6  12.4             -    -      3,161.0  41.0     7,701.1   19.0         851.4   6,532.0        317.7
Total Disbursement                                      30,001 0   74.2        2,758.1   68       4,406.5  10.9     3,2661   S.1    40,431.8  100.0        5,942.0   34,1358        354.0



Allocation of Proceeds                                                 ANNEX 7
(US$ million)                                                   Page 12 of 13
% of
Catemory                             Amounts                        Expenditures
To be Financed
(1) Goods
(a) Goods-INIFOM                                     0.7                        100% FE, 80% LE
(a) Goods-MARENA                                     0.5                        100% FE, 80% LE
(2) Works
(a)Works - INIFOM                                    0.1                              85
(b)Works - MARENA                                    0.1                              85
(3) Operating Costs:
(a) INIFOM                                           2.4                80% until 12/98, 60% until 12/2000,
(b) MARENA                                           0.9                         40% thereafter
(4) Consultant Services
(a) INIFOM                                           4.0                              100
(b) MARENA                                            1.4                             100
(5) Grants                                              16.3                             100
(6) Training
(a) INIFOM                                            1.0                             100
(b) MARENA                                           0.3                              100
(7) PPF                                                  1.5                             100
(8) Ulnallocated                                         0.8
TOTAL                                                   30.0



Estimated Disbursements by Semesters                                              ANNEX 7
(USS '000)                                                       Page 13 of 13
Standard
Disbursement
Disbursed During Semester   Cumulative Disbursement        Profile b/
IBRD Fiscal Year    Semester Ending            Amount   % of Total    Amount   % of Total    % of Total
1997               Dec-96                      0      0%                 0       0               0
Jun-97                2,762.4     9%             2,762      9%                6
1998               Dec-97                2,762.4      9%             5,525     18%               10
Jun-98                2,598.8     9%             8,124      27%              18
1999               Dec-98                2,598.8      9%            10,722     36%               38
Jun-99                3,914.2     13%            14,637     49%              58
2000               Dec-99                 3,914.2     13%           18,551     62%               82
Jun-00                3,678.9     12%           22,230      74%              94
2001               Dec-00                 3,678.9     12%           25,909     86%               98
Jun-01                2,046.2     7%            27,955      93%              98
2002               Sep-01                 2,046.2     7%            30,001     100%             100
a/ The Loan assumed to become effective during the first quarter of 1997. Totals may not add due to rounding. Includes price and physical con
b/ Standard Disbursement Profile for all sectors in Nicaragua (June 1995).






NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 8
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
1. INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
Project institutional responsibilities are discussed in the SAR and in the Project
Implementation Plan and Operational Manual which are in the project file. Diagram A8. 1
summarizes the institutional arrangements.
2. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
The proposed project would be implemented over a period of 5 years and is expected to
be completed in 2001. Activities would begin in 1996 following effectiveness and would be
eligible for retro-active financing in the amount of one million dollars. A cronogram of project
activities is included in the project implementation plan in the project file. These are also
summarized in the Table of implementation indicators in Annex 10. A detailed schedule of
activities for the first year of the project is in the project file.



Diagram A8.1 Implementation Arrangements
4                          Execuiion
Steering Committee                                             .................        Coordination
--------- -  CONAGRO and NIFOM  ..................... .- - - - - - - - -                                  GEF only
MARENA                                                   INIFOM                                      GON Regional
Directorate of Planning                                 Directorate of Planning                              Agencies
(Directorate of Financing and                           (Projects, Technical Assistance,                   MAG, INTA, INRA,
Administration)                                       Information, Studies)                           PNDR, INAA, FISE
Protected   Inter-   MARENA                                  INIFOM Regional Units
Areas  institutiona  Regional
I Relations   Units
General Attorney's Officen Atpal es
Supreme Court  B  i~Council
\                      ~~~~~~~~~Technical Unit                     Roster
. .   sX                     ~~~~~~~~(projects, participation ) \NGOs, Consultants
GON                                                 .\
National Assembly         N 
General Attorney's Office    I  Atlantic   I 
Supreme Court         Biodiversity -----_\
Army, Police           1  Corridor  I
_(GEF) only
tercommunityn Assembl                 Community Supervision
t      '        I       ~~~~Committee         I
BeneficianiesI



NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 9
CONTENTS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN, OPERATIONAL
MANUAL, AND TRAINING MANUAL
1. CONTENTS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Origen
Justificaci6n para la Participaci6n del Banco Mundial
Objehivo del Proyecto
Resumen de la Descripci6n del Proyecto
Caracteristicas Detalladas del Proyecto
Arreglos Institucionales
Costos y Financiamiento del Proyecto
Desembolsos
Estado de Cuentas y Auditoria
Plan de Implementaci6n, Monitoreo e Informes
Beneficios del Proyecto
Plan de Asistencia Tecnica y Capacitaci6n
Impacto Social y Ambiental
Riesgos
Tablas y Diagramas
Organigrama de Ejecuci6n
Flujo Financiero para Subproyectos
Flujo Financiero del Componente Institucional
Marco Ldgico del Proyecto y Plan de Implementacion
Resumen de Costos
Plan de Financiamiento
Resumen de Costos Anuales
Resumen de Costos por Financiador
Plan de Monitoreo e Implementaci6n
Plan de Implementacion e Indicadores de Impacto
Cronograma de Implementaci6n de Componente Fortalecimiento
Institucional
Cronograma de Implementaci6n de Componente Desarollo Municipal
Actividades y Costos de Asistencia Tecnica
Actividades de Capacitaci6n
Anexos
Matrices de Planificaci6n del Proyecto por Componentes
Marco L6gico
Cronogramas de Actividades
Indicadores de Ejecuci6n
Cronogramas de Actividades en MARENA, INIFOMy Municipios
Indicadores de Impacto
Plan Operativo para la Fase Piloto (AFio 1)
Terminos de Referencia



Annex 9
Contents of Project Implementation Plan,
Operational Manual and Training Manual
Page 2 of 5
Unidad del Proyecto MARENA
Unidad del Proyecto INIFOM
Coordinador del Proyecto MARENA
Coordinador del Proyecto INIFOM
Coordinador Unidad Tecnica Municipal (UTM)
Asesor de Asistencia Tecnica y Capacitacion - INIFOM
Asesor de Ggnero -- INIFOM
Asistencia Tecnica en Planificaci6n, Monitoreo y Evaluacion
Auditorias
Planes de Ordenamiento Municipales
Lineamientos Estrategicos para el Ordenamiento Territorial del
Corredor Biologico del Atlkntico y Su Area de Influencia
Plan de Ordenamiento del Athintico
Consultorfa para Establecimiento y Operacion de las Unidades
Tecnicas Municipales, Sistema Contable y Monitoreo y Evaluacion de
Subproyectos (not yet available)
Consultoria para la Divulgaci6n del Proyecto, Estructuras
Participativas y Planificacion Participativa (not yet available)
Consultoria para Capacitaci6n y Sistema de Certificaci6n de
Profesionales y ONGs (not yet available)
Consultoria para la Ejecuci6n del Programa de Apoyo
Interinstitucional (not yet available)
2. CONTENTS OF OPERATIONAL MANUAL (REGL4MENTO INTERNO)
1. CRITERIOS DE ELEGIBILIDAD
Criterios de Asignacidn de Recursos
Proyectos Financiables
Requisitos Tecnicos
Utilizacion de los Fondos y Restricciones
Arreglos de Co-financiamiento
Beneficiarios y Ejecutores
2. ORGANIZACION
Nivel Central
Comite de Administracion del Proyecto
Coordinaci6n del Proyecto
MARENA
INIFOM
Nivel Municipal
Consejo Municipal
Unidad Tecnica Municipal
Asamblea Intercomarcal
Comite de Apoyo y Seguimiento
3. ARREGLOSOPERATIVOS
La Planificaci6n Local Participativa
Preparaci6n de Propuestas
Analisis del Proyecto
Analisis Tecnico



Annex 9
Contents of Project lmplementation Plan,
Operational Manual and Training Manual
Page 3 of S
Andlisis Ambiental
Recomendacidn del Proyecto
Aprobacion del Proyecto
Implementaci6n y Supervisi6n
Arreglos para Desembolsos
Fondos Municipales
Capital Semilla
Arreglos Formales de los Proyectos
Capacitaci6n y Asistencia Tecnica
Documentaci6n
Base de Datos
Aud&torlas
Cierres
Evaluacion
Requerimientos de Reportes e Informacidn
Revisiones, Adecuacionesy Sanciones
Sistema Contable Administrativo
Adquisiciones
TABLAS
Tabla 1. Matriz de Cofinanciacidn
FIGURAS
Figura 1. Divisi6n de Recursos entre los Municipios
Figura 2 Organizaci6n del Fondo Municipal
Frigura 3. Organizacion a Nivel Municipal
Figura 4. Esquema de Participaci6n Comunitaria
Figura 5. El Ciclo del Proyecto
ANEXOS
Anexo 1. Terminos de Referencia de la Unidad Tecnica Municipal
Anexo 2. Pautas para la Presentacion de Proyectos
Anexo 3. Matriz de Anflisis de Proyectos
Anexo 4. Indicadores de Monitoreo del Proyecto
Anexo 5. Indicador de Gesti6n Administrah'va
Anexo 6. Terminos de Referencia para un Indicador de Participaci6n
Anexo 7. Terminos de Referencia para la Auditoria del Proyecto
Anexo 8. Convenios Legales
3. CONTENTS OF TRAINING MANUAL FOR SUBPROJECTS'
FONDOSMUNICIPALES
Objetivos
Criterios de Asignaci6n
Formula Aplicada
Criterio de CapacidadAdministrativa
Criterio de Participaci6n
Plan de Ejecuci6n
2     The Training Manual is under preparation



Annex 9
Contents of Project Implementation Plan,
Operational Manual and Training Manual
Page 4 of 5
Fase Piloto
Fase de Ejecuci6n
LA UNIDAD TECNICA MUNICIPAL, EL MUNICIPIO Y LA COMUNIDAD
Organigrama y Funciones
El Consejo Municipal
La Alcaldia
Delegaci6n Regional INIFOM
Otras comisiones de elecci6n intercomarcal
EL CICLO DEL PROYECTO
Divulgaci6n
Microplanificaci6n
Participativa
Concertada
Descentralizada
El Plan Municipal de Inversiones
Caracteristicas
Proceso de Formulaci6n
La Asamblea Intercomarcal y el Plan Municipal
Preparaci6n del Plan Municipal
Criterios De Aplicabilidad De Proyectos
Requisitos Globales
Enfoque
Sector
Cofinanciamiento
Requisitos Thcnicos de Aprobaci6n
Matriz de Analisis de Proyectos
Elegibilidad de los ejecutores
Andlisis de Propuesta
Andlisis Tknico
Anclisis Ambiental
Factibilidad de la propuesta
El Plan de Sostenibilidad
El Proceso de Aprobaci6n
Consejo Municipal
Apoyo en Analisis Tecnico
Documentaci6n de Propuestas
Arreglos Formales
Convenio de Ejecuci6n
Archivo de Proyecto
Formatos y Documentos
Base de Datos
Monitoria y Seguimiento
Gufa de Monitoria
Plan de Seguimiento
Sistema de Informaci6n
La Administracion de los Fondos Municipales
Mecanismos de Desembolsos
El nivel central al municipio
Del municipio a los beneficiarios



Annex 9
Contents of Project Implementation Plan,
Operational Manual and Training Manual
Page 5 of 5
Sistemas de AdministraciOn/AdquisiciOn de Bienes y Servicios
Administracion Directa
Adquisiciones desde la Municipalidad
Contratos
Ejecuci6n Directa de la Alcaldia
Sistema Contable
Caracteristicas
Reportes e Informacion Financiera






NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 10
PROJECT MONITORING, REPORTING, AND EVALUATION
1. MONITORING
The establishment of an efficient project monitoring system is instrumental to
assure the consistency of project activities, and in particular of the investment program, with
the stated objectives. A set of monitoring indicators, based on the project's logical framework
analysis, is shown in Table A 0. 1 through AI 0.7 and Figure 10. 1. The project monitoring
system is separated in two distinct units: one dealing with the municipal development
component implemented by INIFOM; and a second one focused on natural resource
management and protection implemented by MARENA. The project monitoring system would
be based on a Management Information System (MIS) with a database which organizes
pertinent physical and financial information.
A. Municipal Development Component
This component relies heavily on a decentralized system of decision-making and
management, involving a large number of small, diverse subprojects. Hence, since the ex ante
determination of the pattern of project investment and other key parameters is not possible,
effective supervision depends on the existence of a capable monitoring system. This system
will provide information regarding the progress of the subproject in its different stages (e.g.,
subproject approval, procurement, implementation, and disbursement), types of projects
approved and implemented, and verify that project activities are consistent with the guidelines,
targeting methodology, and selection criteria included in the Operational Manual (Reglamento
Operativo). This MIS would be managed with a decentralized database to be established by
the MTU, and aggregated at the INIFOM regional and central levels. INIFOM would also
disseminate lessons learned through monitoring among municipalities and communities. For
each subproject, the MIS would record at least the following information:
(1)  a brief subproject description;
(2)  location by community and municipality;
(3)  number of beneficiaries and among them number of women and indigenous
people;
(4)  cost of the subproject and co-financing including community contribution;
(5)  date of contract signing;
(6)  starting and finishing dates for the subproject;
(7)  an index of physical work carried out at each monitoring visit and a physical
measure at completion (e.k. kms. of community road rehabilitated; wells
built, area under erosion control, etc.);
(8)  acceptance by the community of the finished subproject;
(9)  name and address of community contact person;
(10) subproject sustainability, effective use, and replicability.



Annex 10
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 2 of 11
Responsibilities. Responsibilities for monitoring will be shared between local and
central levels. Local monitoring would involve the community members involved in each sub-
project (Project User Group - PUG), the Community Supervision Committee (CSC), and the
Municipal Technical Unit (MTU). INIFOM's Regional Offices would assist in monitoring
some of the larger and special projects and could request assistance from specialized line
agencies such as MAG, INTA, INRA, MAG, MARENA, PNDR, INAA, FISE and MCT.
Local monitoring (supervision) of the cost and efficiency of works under implementation would
increasingly be carried out by the MTU, with support from the INIFOM Regional Offices,
which at present does the majority of this work. The central office of INIFOM would be
responsible for organizing the data in the MIS and supervising its regional offices.
Technical assistance in monitoring would be provided during the project pilot phase
(year 1). While some working experience exists in these areas, it is essential that for a period
of time the units responsible for planning, monitoring and evaluation receive assistance from a
qualified consultant, in order to assist in the design and operation the system. TORs for a
consultant to assist INIFOM and MARENA in reviewing and fine-tuning the planning and
monitoring and evaluation functions and procedures is included in the Project Implementation
Plan.
B. Natural Resources and Biodiversity Components
Monitoring of activities in this component can be handled using MARENA's
existing monitoring and reporting systems, except for the Associated Atlantic Biodiversity
Corridor Project (GEF). This component would require a specific system currently being
designed.
2. REPORTING
To the extent possible, reporting procedures within each component would follow
existing institutional reporting systems, in order to avoid duplication of effort. The complete
project reporting system would produce different types of reports, depending on the user level
involved. Two different project progress reports will be submitted to IDA: one from INIFOM
on municipal development; and one from MARENA on natural resources policies and
institutions and biodiversity protection.
MTUs would issue simple monthly reports (one or two pages) to INIFOM, signed
by the mayor, listing subproject progress, work carried out, implementation difficulties and
main actions programmed for the following month. Information would flow from this level to
the Regional Delegations of INIFOM, which would issue aggregate monthly reports. These
monthly reports would be sent to the Directorate of Planning of INIFOM in Managua.
INIFOM's Directorate of Planning would be responsible for bringing together the
data from both Regional offices, and other information on the project's activities managed
centrally (training, technical assistance, etc.), to be included in the reports for the senior
management of INIFOM, CONAGRO, MIFIN and for IDA to be issued following the end of
each quarter (March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31). The quarterly reports
would contain the current update of the MIS, with all data provided in a suitable magnetic
base.



Annex 10
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 3 of 11
The Directorate of Planning of MARENA would also issue separate quarterly
reports (March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31) listing accomplishments,
problems and next steps, for senior management of MARENA, CONAGRO, MIFIN and IDA
The general content of each of the two quarterly reports (INIFOM and MARENA)
would include:
(1)  A summary of project implementation. This section would provide an
overall assessment of project progress, indicating major advances and
problems identified, in relation to targets set out in the annual operating
plan, as well as in regards to important unplanned events. Progress
regarding problems and proposed actions to resolve them from the previous
reporting period should be included.
(2)  Local and central government activities. Given the project's focus on
developing local institutions, the reports should clearly differentiate activities
and problems at the municipal/community level, from those carried out
directly by INIFOM and MARENA.
(3)  Indicators. Reference must be made to the main monitoring indicators (see
Tables AI0. I through AI0.5). These indicators would allow report
recipients to gauge project progress in important physical aspects. Where
changes in the indicators occur from one quarter to the next, these should be
reported and conunented upon. Where no change in an indicator takes place,
this should be clearly stated. Indicators of use of funds (financial
indicators), would be provided to indicate resources provided and used by
financing source (the IDA, Government of Nicaragua, Municipalities,
beneficiary communities)
(4)  Status of legal covenants. A summary of compliance with the project's
legal covenants as established in the legal documents (loan agreement,
INIFOM agreement, municipality agreements) would be an annex to each
report.
The two reports from INIFOM and MARENA pertaining to the final quarter of
each year, would include, in addition to the above information, accumulated data on the full
year's accomplishments and other information required to provide a complete picture of
component development. Tables of indicators would be designed in order to facilitate
comparison of the current year's data with that of previous years.
3. EVALUATION
The project would develop and implement a range of evaluation studies to measure
the impact of the subproject investments and to provide appropriate feedback to improve
project methodology and implementation. INIFOM would be responsible for drafting the
Termns of References (TORs) -- in accordance with IDA -- and contracting the consulting
services for the following evaluation studies:



Annex 10
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 4 of 11
( I) Annual Reviews to assist the GON and IDA in the identification of positive
experiences and implementation problems and bottlenecks, in order to
recommend modification to project methodology and procedures for
incorporation during the second half of the project implementation period.
Among the various aspects of project implementation to be reviewed, the
annual reviews would evaluate the efficiency and impact of the different
components, the effectiveness of institutional development activities, the
level of community participation, and the ability of the project to target and
reach the poor. The annual reviews would evaluate the success of
subprojects in terrns of their specific objectives, and the quality, efficiency,
and sustainability of the investments. Within a statistically significant
sample, the study would better analyze the following points: (i) beneficiary
participation in the selection process; (ii) physical design adequacy, unitary
costs, and efficiency of procurement procedures; (iii) the targeting of
subproject benefits, and (iv) evaluation of sustainability, effective use, and
replicability of the investments after their physical implementation,
particularly in terms of capacity building.
(2)   Project Impact Evaluation. The project would finance a comprehensive
evaluation, based on a statistically significant sample, to assess project
impact. The impact evaluation would be carried out by independent
consultants and contracted under TORs and procedures acceptable to the
Bank.



Annex 10
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 5 of 11
Table A10.1 Monitoring Indicators
Component L Rural Municipalities Development
Objectives: (1) To establish decentralized mechanisms for reducing rural poverty through rural investment in economic infrastructure, improved natural resource
management and small scale productive activities
Subcomponent        Input Indicator       Output Indicator                   Outcome Indicator                 Impact Indicator
(A) Institutional   IDA disbursements     MTUs operating                     Municipal expenditures           Financial management indicator
Development of      Consultant weeks      MEPs approved annually             Revenues from own sources         (see Figure A10. 1): number of
Municipalities      Computers                                                Revenues from fiscal transfers   adequate municipalities
Training events                         _
(B) Information and   IDA disbursements   Participatory Planning Events      Municipal investment plans approved  Participation indicator (survey)
Community           Workshops             Intercommunity Assemblies and      by CSC                           Peoples perception of municipal
Participation                             Community Supervision Committees;                                   governments (survey)
Trained professionals
Trained NGOs
(C) Community and   IDA disbursements     Time from identification to completion   Subprojects under effective use ()    % of sustainable subprojects
Municipality                              of subprojects                     Subprojects targeted at poor (%/O)  Number of households out of
Subprojects                               Number of subprojects implemented  Subprojects tar eted at women (%/6)    poverty
(D) INIFOM and      IDA disbursements
decentralization    Consultants
Component IL Natural Resources Policies and Institutions
Objectives: (2) to ensure that GON agencies acquire a capability to provide a coherent overall framework for natural resource policy making and enforcement
accounting for global, national and regional environmental priorities
Subcomponent        Input Indicator       Output Indicator                   Outcome Indicator                 Impact Indicator
(A) MARENA          CDA disbursements     Map of biological corridor         Meeting Euso                      Natur Resources Laws 0tified
Consultants SeNAP proposal                              communities                       (sMg  table A10.7)
Participatory IPDP
(B) Interinstitutional  IDA disbursements  Events with NA and Judiciary                                        Municipalities with
Assistance          Consultants           Number of trained municipalities                          _          environmental nonrs issued
Note: Disbursements by financier for the overall project would also be used as input indicator



Annex 10
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 6 of 11
Table A.2 - Targets of Input Monitoring Indicators
Sub-component                       Indicator      _        T Year 1   Year2   Year3   Year4   Year 5    Total
Rural Municipalities Devel pment Component
Institutional Development     Disbursement (US$ equivalent '000)      970.0   1,050.0    920.0    890.0    810.0  4,670.0
of Municipalities                     Consultants (SW)                 150       170       180      170       110       800
Computers                      40        10        0         0         0       50
Training courses                  5         8         8        8         0        29
Information & Participation   Disbursement (US$ equivalent '000)      450.0    570.0    440.0    220.0    200.0   1,910.0
Workshops                      50        80       80        50        20      310
Subprojects                   Disbursement (USS equivalent '000)      680.0   1,940.0  5,650.0   5,820.0   3,030.0  17,140.0
Institutional Development     Disbursement (US$ equivalent '000)      970.0    480.0    410.0    290.0    290.0  2,480.0
of INIFOM                             Consultants (SW)                  20        10       20         0         0        60
Natural resources Policies and Institutions
Strengthening of MARENA       Disbursement (US$ equivalent '000)      630.0    370.0    360.0    250.0    250.0   1,880.0
Consultants (SW)                270       280       270       230      230      1,300
Inter-institutional Assistance  Disbursement (US$ equivalent '000)    670.0    260.0    200.0    190.0    100.0   1,470.0
_________________________Consultants (SW)                      30       30        30        30         0      140
Overall Pro ect
Financier                        Indicator                Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Total
IDA Credit                    Disbursement (US$ equivalent '000)    3,340.0  4,210.0  6,620.0   6,360.0   3,440.0  23,680.0
Municipalities                               ".                        70.0    280.0    660.0    740.0    550.0  2,330.0
Beneficiaries                                 .                        70.0    420.0   1,230.0    920.0    680.0  3,660.0
GON                                           .                       200.0    440.0    550.0    670.0    780.0  2,650.0
TOTAL                                         .                     3,690.0   5,360.0  9,080.0   8,710.0   5,460.0  32,330.0
List of abbreviations:
CSC                Community Supervision Committee          MIP                Municipal Investment Plan
ELUP               Enviromnental Land Use Plan              MTU                Municipal Technical Unit
IA                Inter-community Assembly                  NA                 National Assembly
INIFOM             Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal development   NGO        Non Governmental Organization
IPDP               Indigenous People Development Plan       SINAP              National System of Protected Areas
(Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas)
MARENA             Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources   SW          Staff Week



Annex 10
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 7 of 11
Table A.3 Targets of Output Monitoring Indicators
Sub-component                          Indicator                  Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5   Total
Rural Municipalities Development Component
Institutional Development     MTUs operating (cumulative)                     10       23        30       31        31       31
of municipalities           MIP approved annually                             0       10        23       30       30
Information/Participation     Participatory planning events (cumulative)       0        10       46      184      368       608
IA and CSC established (cumulative)              0       10        23       32       32        32
Trained professionals                            0       70        90      100       60       320
Trained NGOs                                     0        5         6        8         5       24
Subprojects                   Subprojects implemented                         20      140      300       500      400    1,360
Identification-implementation lap period        10        8         6        6         6        6
(months) \b
Natural Resources Policies and Institutions
Strengthening of MARENA    SINAP proposal \c                                   1                                              I
Participatory IPDP                               1                                              1
Map of Biological Corridor                                 1                                    1
Inter-institutional           Training Events with NA                                    1        1         1                 3
Assistance                Training Events with Judiciary                                      I         1                 2
___ _. _N_ Number of trained Municipalities                            I               10        13        9       10        42
Notes: a\    "Year 1" is one year after effectiveness, "Year 2" two years after effectiveness, and so on
b\    average period between identification and first disbursement
c\    SSNAP study prepared and approved by MARENA
d\    effective use of the subproject one year after completion
e\     number of households -- desegregated on a gender basis -- which will pass from below to above the poverty line (measured in terms of income).



Annex 10
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 8 of 11
Table A.4 Targets of Outcome Monitoring Indicators
Sub-component                      Indicator                Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5   Total
Rural Municipalities Developm ent Component
Institutional Development  Annual municipal expenditures (US$ M)       7.0     7.4      7.9     8.4      8.9
of municipalities              "     "   fiscal transfers            0.2      0.6      1.0     1.4      1.8
of"   o   own resources               6.8      6.8      6.9     7.0      7.1
Information/ participation  MIP approved by CSC                         0        4      10       18      25       25
Subprojects                Effective use (%) /d                                                          80
%ofwomenbenefited                        15         17       20      22       25
% of productive subprojects              26         28       30      32       34
,subprojects targeted to poor people (%) /f                                   70
Natural Resources Policies and Institutions
Strengthening of MARENA    Seminars/workshops with indigenous           6       12      12       18       18      66



Annex 10
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 9 of 11
Table A.5 Targets of Impact Monitoring Indicators
Sub-component                      Indicator                Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5   Total
Rural Municipalities Develop ent Component
Institutional Development  Financial Management Indicator
# of adequate municipalities                 2       4        8       12      14
A of moderately adequate municipalities      4       9       16      24       32
Participation indicator (to be developed)       Survey                   Survey
People's perception about municipal            Survey                    Survey
management
Subprojects                % of sustainable subprojects                                                  80       80
households > poverty level /'            0           0        0   4,000   4,000   8,000
Natural Resources Policies and Institutions
Inter-institutional. Assistance  Municipalities with completed ELUPs    0      23       32      32       32       32
Municipalities with environmental norms      1       2        4       7       10       10
issued1247                                                                    100



Annex 10
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 10 Of I I
Table A.6 Expected Policy Outputs
Policy Initiative                           Measured Output       Target Date           Responsibility
Municipality Law (with Fiscal Transfers)    Submission to NA      Completed              WFOM, MIFIN
Regulations                                 Decree proposed       90 days after          WFOM, MIFIN
enactment
Consultations Events                        3 seminars            December 1997          WFOM
Legalization of conununities (Pacific region)    Study/Report     December 1998         INIFOM, MIPRES
Legalization of communities (Atlantic region)   Study/Report      December 1998         MARENA, MIPRES
Consultation events                         I seminar             December 1999         INFOM, MAS
Decentralization Strategy                   Report                December 1998         INFOM, CERAP
Consultation Events                         2 seminar             December 1998          WFOM
Municipal Workers Code                      Submission to NA      December 1999          WIFOM, MIFIN
Regulations                                 Decree proposed       90 days after         INIFOM, MIFIN
enactment
Consultation Events                         3 seminars            December 2000          WFOM
Indigenous Land Demarcation and Titling     Decree issued or law    December 1997       MARENA, MIFIN
Decree or Law (as the case might be)        submitted
Consultation Events                         4 seminars            December 1997         MARENA, INRA, MAS
Regulations General Environment Law         Decree proposed       December 1997         MARENA
Consultation Events                         3 seminars            December 1997         MARENA
Regulations Forestry Law                    Decree proposed       90 days after         MARENA, MEDE
enactment
Consultation Events                         6 seminars            December 1998         MARENA
Regulations Fishery Law                     Decree proposed       90 days after         MEPESCA, MARENA
enactment
Consultation Events                         6 seminars            December 1998         MARENA
Protected Areas Law                         Submission to NA      December 1998         MARENA
Regulations                                 Decree proposed       60 days after approval  MARENA
Consultation Events                         3 semninars           December 1999         MARENA



Annex 10
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 11 of 11
Figure A10.1 Financial Management Indicator (Actual values; target is 25/32 municipalities adequate)
Municipality
Sta. Rosa del Pefl6n
Not Adequate         Modeately           Adequate
Santo Tomes                                      Adecuate
San Pedro del Norte
San Juan del Norte
San Fco. del Norte
Quezalguaque
Morrito
Larreynaga
Cinco Pinos
Telica
San Carlos
Posoltega
El Realejo
El Almendro
Somotillo
La Paz Centro
Villanueva
San Miguelito
Rama
Nueva Guinea
Muelle de los Bueyes
El Sauce
El Castillo
Corinto
Chichigalpa
Achuapaa
El Jicaral 
Nagarote
Puerto Morazan
El Viejo
Le6n
Chinandega __
0.0   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9   1.0
This indicator was developed on the basis of 27 weighted variables which assessed the accounting system, staff adequacy.
internal auditing, and financial management of the 32 municipalities






NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 11
PROJECT SUPERVISION
The proposed project is complex because it deals with three levels of decision-
making -- central government, municipal governments and communities -- and two managing
agencies: INIFOM and MARENA. Moreover most of the project funds will go to a large
number of small subprojects covering a variety of sectors in two different regions of the
country. Although the project preparation team put particular care in minimizing complexity,
by phasing in project activities and building into project design checks and balances to keep the
project on track, supervision needs are greater than for the typical Bank project. Furthermore
there must be opportunities, during project implementation, to revisit project design and
management and to introduce corrections if needed to enable it to meet its objectives. Hence
comprehensive Annual Reviews would take place during implementation.
Pilot Phase
The pilot phase would take place during the project's first year and would focus on
technical assistance for building capacity in INIFOM, MARENA and municipalities, project
promotion and dissemination, preparation of municipal investment plans, training of service
providers, environment and land use plans and continuation of preparation of associated GEF
project. A limited number of subprojects would be identified and prepared to test procedures.
Project launch workshops. Four project launch workshops would take place
immediately after effectiveness (month 1). All workshops would take place at approximately
the same time. The first workshop would be targeted at the management agencies - INIFOM
and MARENA -- and in addition to reviewing project objectives, implementation arrangements
and procedures, it would focus on procurement, disbursements, financial management,
monitoring and evaluation. The second workshop would include, in addition to INIFOM and
MARENA, other GON agencies expected to play a role in supporting project implementation,
namely MAG, INTA, INRA, PNDR, INAA and FISE. This short workshop would review
objectives and implementation arrangements and in particular discuss the roles of those
support agencies. The third workshop would be targeted at 32 municipal governments
already selected for the project. It would focus on reviewing the procedures described in the
Operational Manual (Reglamento Interno), Subproject Cycle Training Manual and Project
Implementation Plan. The fourth workshop would be targeted at community leaders and local
NGOs and would again review the above project management documents and in particular
clearly discuss community rights and responsibilities under the project. World Bank
participation in these workshops would be:
Task Manager
Procurement and Disbursements Specialist
Participation Specialist
Total Bank SW - 5 SW



Annex 11
Project Supervision
Page 2 of 4
Second Supervision Mission. This would be a short mission (month 4) to review
start-up activities, namely first year work-program and the following activities: (1) financial
controls; (2) monitoring and evaluation system; (3) establishment and training of MTUs; (4)
promotion and dissemination of project; (5) community structures; (6) training of service
providers; and (7) environment and land use plans. It would consist of:
Task Manager
Financial Analyst
Monitoring and evaluation specialist
Participation Specialist
Natural Resources Specialist
Water Engineer
Total Bank SW - 8 SW
Third Supervision Mission. This would be a short mission (month 8) to review
project advances and implementation problems. It would consist of:
Task Manager
Participation Specialist
Total Bank SW -- 2 SW
First Year Review and Fourth Supervision Mission. This would consist of a full
mission (month 12) to review all aspects of project implementation and to propose revisions to
project design, implementation and management arrangements if necessary. It would consist
Of:
Task Manager
Financial Analyst
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Natural Resources Specialist
Water Engineer
Participation Specialist
Indigenous peoples specialist
Total Bank SW -- 10 SW
First Phase
The first phase of the project would take place during the project's first year. At
the start of this phase INIFOM, MARENA, municipal governments and some communities
would be familiar with the project procedures and would have received training and technical
assistance in key project areas. Procedures would have been tested. The environment and land
use plans would be ready. The focus of the first phase would be on continuing with the
technical assistance programs and on initiating the subproject cycle in selected communities in
the 23 municipalities of Leon and Chinandega.



Annex 1 I
Project Supervision
Page 3 of 4
Fifth Supervision Mission. This mission (month 16) would focus on subproject
identification, implementation and management aspects and it would do several field visits to
review subproject problems. Although the composition of the mission will depend on the kinds
of subprojects being implemented tentatively the following staff should participate:
Task Manager
Natural Resources Specialist
Water Engineer
Participation Specialist
Financial Analyst
Total Bank SW -- IO SW
Sixth Supervision Mission. This would be a follow-up mission (month 20)
focused on the subproject cycle and implementation arrangements. It would consist of:
Task Manager
Natural Resources Specialist
Water Engineer
Participation Specialist
Total Bank SW -- 6 SW
Second-year Review and Eighth Supervision Mission. This would be a full
mission (month 24) to review the entire project design, implementation arrangements,
management and organization, Operational Manual, training programs, community structures,
indigenous peoples aspects, municipal capacity, financial controls, monitoring and evaluation,
environment and land use plans and legislative proposals. This mission would propose changes
to the project implementation arrangements, if necessary, to permit a smooth implementation
during the second phase. The mission would also review candidate municipalities for the
project's second phase and prepare a supervision plan for that phase. The mission would
consist of:
Task Manager
Financial Analyst
Participation Specialist
Indigenous peoples specialist
Public Finance Specialist
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Natural Resources Specialist
Total Bank SW -- 10 SW
Total Bank Resources for Pilot and First Phase
In total 51 SW would be needed for missions during the project's first two years
and another 30 SW would be needed at headquarters. The total staff requirements for the
project's first two years would be around 81 SW. Supervision requirements would decline
during the second phase once procedures are well internalized and key obstacles to
implementation removed.



Annex 11
Project Supervision
Page 4 of 4
Second Phase
The second phase of the project would consist of the last three years of the project.
This would be the full-fledged implementation phase with the number of subprojects in the 23
municipalities of Leon and Chinandega quickly increasing as experience with procedures
increases. The 9 municipalities of San Carlos and RAAS would initiate subprojects in this
phase. The Associated GEF project would also start at the beginning of this phase. A
supervision plan for the second phase would be prepared during the second-year review.



NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 12
ECONOMIC IMPACTS
1. INTRODUCTION
Benefit estimation of investments in institutional strengthening, poverty alleviation
and environmental protection is not simple. On the one hand, ex-post cross-country
econometric studies have found time and again a clear positive relation between investments in
those activities and countries' economic development (see for example recent Bank's World
Development Reports on poverty, environment, health and infrastructure). On the other hand,
ex-ante estimation of the benefits of a particular investment of that sort is fraught with
difficulties, stemming from high levels of uncertainty, lack of engineering data on relationships
between inputs and outputs, limited price information and widespread externalities. These
difficulties are compounded in the proposed project because, given its demand driven nature,
which investments will be actually implemented is unknown. Hence the purpose of this Annex
is to more specifically identify project costs and benefits and to roughly estimate, as orders of
magnitude, the economic impacts of the project from a subset of activities given assumptions
of what kinds of subprojects will be demanded and implemented.
2. ECONOMIC BENEFITS
There are three dimensions of economic impacts from the proposed project: (1)
from decentralization; (2) from natural resource and environmental policy reform; and (3)
from subprojects.
The expected economic impacts from decentralization are primarily three: (a)
reduction in costs of delivering public services relative to the costs of these services if they
were managed centrally; (b) a better optimum (more efficient mix) of local investments
relative to the mix accruing if decisions were taken by a centralized agency; and (c) improved
community structures and thus increases in the social capital.
The expected economic impacts from natural resource and environmental policy
reform are primarily three: (a) economic efficiency gains from eliminating many spurious
regulations on natural resource use; (b) reduction in the costs of governing due to increased
government credibility from actually enforcing a clearer legal and policy framework than under
the without project scenario; and (c) better intemalization of environmental extemalities by the
public, private and NGO sectors.
The expected economic impacts from subprojects are primarily four: (a) through
leaming by doing and training reduction in the costs of municipalities and communities in
identifying, preparing, implementing and operating subprojects; (b) improved decision-making
by private farmers and other rural poor from the capacity building projects; (c) economic
gains from enhanced environmental protection; and (d) economic surpluses from economic



Annex 12
Economic Impacts
Page 2 of 10
infrastructure and higher productivity from on-farm and off-farrn economic subsistence
activities to be supported by the project.
B. SUBPROJECTS
Methodology Used. During preparation economic analysis focused only on a
subset of those benefits: the economic impacts of the expected portfolio of environmental and
productive subprojects. The rationale was that if this subset of benefits is sufficient to cover
all economic project costs, the project makes economic sense and it is not necessary to estimate
the other, more difficult to quantify benefits. Because sub-projects are demand driven and it is
not known ex-ante what community and municipality choices will be, two estimates of sub-
project demand were developed by polling municipal governments, NGOs and beneficiaries
directly (see Annexes 1 and 3).
Therefore, the present estimates should be regarded as an exercise, aiming only at
giving an order of magnitude of the project's potential benefits. The exercise looks only to the
more productive related components (environmental protection, rural infrastructure, and rural
production) which together account for some 50% of expected total project costs. No benefit
estimates are attempted for the other 50% of the project which would cover institutional
strengthening activities and capacity building at the national and local level. Within each
category a short list of possible subprojects was used to illustrate the potential economic
benefits and the environmental and poverty alleviation achievements of the environmental
protection, rural infrastructure and rural production components. The following types of
subprojects were evaluated: (1) erosion control; (2) mangrove protection; (3) rural water; (4)
rehabilitation of municipal and community roads; and (5) subsistence agriculture/livestock
subprojects.
Environmental Subprojects
Erosion Control. Although soil erosion is to a large extent a natural process, its
acceleration due to deforestation, agricultural practices, and other rural development activities
(see Annex 2), can have detrimental consequences both at the farm level (reduced crop yields)
and off-site (flooding, biodiversity losses, damage to infrastructure). Although this analysis
focuses only on on-farm soil erosion impacts there is substantial anecdotal evidence that in the
Pacific Region of Nicaragua off-site impacts of soil erosion are even more important, in
particular through the damage to infrastructure (roads and irrigation systems) and respiratory
disease due to volcanic dust from wind erosion.
Agriculturally induced soil erosion and resulting crop losses have surfaced as major
concerns in all the surveys carried out during project preparation. Available figures seem to
confirm this concern. Soils in the project region are to a large extent young soils from volcanic
origin, hence prone to erosion, particularly wind erosion, as a result of the region's
predominant semiarid climate, with a long dry season. According to De Franco, et al (1993)1
soil losses in Leon and Chinandega agricultural areas range from a low 35 - 45 ton/ha/year, for
permanent or semi-permanent crops, like rice or sugar, to 100 ton/halyear or more, in soils
' De Franco et al (1993) "Erosion and Economic Growth in Nicaragua" Central Bureau of Statistics,
Oslo, and Instituto Centroamericano de Administraci6n de Empresas, Managua.



Annex 12
Economic Impacts
Page 3 of 10
devoted to annual crops such as beans, corn, sesame and cotton. Soil losses in recently
deforested areas are higher.
De Franco, et al (1993) provide detailed erosion figures and associated yield declines
for six Nicaraguan regions, and eight different crops, from 1981 to 1991. Together with
production and yields figures (from Nicaragua's MAG) they were used to calculate:
(1) An average production value of US$179 per hectare/year. This is a weighted
average based on production and yield figures for the six most important regional
crops during 1993/94, valued at 1994 fann gate prices.2
(2) An average erosion induced yield loss of 1.5 % per hectare/year. This is also a
weighted average, based on 1981 - 1991 erosion figures, and 1993/94 production
figures.
Considering that the regional harvested area in 1993/94 was approximately 200,000
ha, the estimates from (1) and (2) can be used to roughly calculate annual erosion related
losses, and their present value over a multi-year period.
The potential on-farm gains of soil erosion control are significant. Arresting soil
erosion in the area currently under cultivation, over the next 20 years, would result in increased
crops with a present value of US$ 52 million dollars, or US$ 23 per ha (at a 10% discount
rate)3.
According to estimations developed during project preparation, conservation costs
could range from a low of US$ 81 dollars/ha (mostly cultivation and cropping changes, and the
use of vegetation barriers) to a high of US$ 405 dollars/ha. Estimated on-farm benefits rule out
the more expensive conservation methods. On the other hand, if an average cost figure of
US$137 is used, 75% (US$4.3 million) of the project's environmental protection component
would be enough to finance the protection of 27,400 ha, approximately 14% of the current
crop area. This would entail benefits of the order of US$ 8.6 million, and a benefit-cost ratio of
2.0. Benefits would be significantly higher if future increases in rural production (the
assumption is that production would continue at current levels except for gains from erosion
controls) or off-farm benefits had been considered as well.
These figures are only illustrative. A recent study conducted in Central America
(Lutz, et al, 1994) suggests that, in many instances, this is not the case even when erosion
control investments are provided at no cost. In Nicaragua, terraces were built on farns in the
Lake Xolotan watershed, at no cost to the farmers, with the purpose of reducing flood hazards
in Managua city. But since terraces interfered with cultivation practices, and did not result in
perceived benefits to the farmer, they were soon destroyed. Given the demand driven nature of
this project these problems would be avoided.
2 Hereafter "region" refers to both Le6n and Chinandega.
3      A manzana -mz- equals 0.74 hectare. Figures are net of incremental harvest costs. All USS
figures are based on an exchange rate of 7.5 Nicaragua's Co. per US$ dollar. Hereafter all present
value figures are based in a 20 year period and a 10% discount rate.



Annex 12
Economic Impacts
Page 4 of 10
Mangrove Protection. The larger portion of Nicaragua's mangrove is in the project's
region, mostly in the Chinandega department. Although nearly 80% of the regions 84,700
hectare of mangrove have been declared protected area, they are actually highly intervened by
small farmers and fishermen's activities (extraction of firewood, poles, shellfishes, shrimp
larvae, and mangroves' bark), and the deforestation of large tracts of mangroves to install
shrimp ponds, of which 7,000 hectares have already been granted, and authorization is pending
for another 10,000 hectares.4
If the process of mangrove deterioration is not arrested, it will soon reduce the
productivity of the very same activities that now breed on it, a process already at work in
nearby countries such as Ecuador and Honduras. Unfortunately there is no comprehensive
study on the economic value of Nicaragua's mangroves, which could guide the design of
technical alternatives and the estimation of benefits.' In the meantime, available local and
intemational experiences provide some evidence of what such benefits might be:
(1) Families living from small-scale extractive activities in Chinandega's mangroves
report an annual income ranging from US$ 1,000 to US$ 2,000 net of production
costs, based on a harvesting area of approximately 10 ha. per family (an annual
economic value per mangrove ha/year of US$ 100 - 200 dollars).
(2) Due to the incipient shrimp pond production, larvae collection has been modest,
averaging some US$ 33,000 dollars a year, but if the full potential 30,000 ha. of
ponds were in place they could represent a market for shrimp larvae of some US$
4 million dollars a year, or US$ 133 per mangrove ha/year. Since current prices
paid for wild larvae --US$ 2.5 per thousand are half the cost of laboratory
produced larvae, this figure could be considered representative of the net benefits
provided by the ecosystem supply of wild larvae. Unfortunately there is no
indication to assess if this would be a sustainable larvae's capture level.
(3) The 1993 harvest of shrimp off Nicaragua's Pacific coast amounted to 715,500
kgs, 90% of which was exported at an average price of US$ 1.2 per kg. It seems
that current capture is well below its sustainable level, considering that studies of
shrimp productivity in coastal Asian waters off mangrove areas suggest that 1
hectare of mangrove can be the early breading ground of as much as 862 kgs of
adult see shrimps (with a corresponding gross value of US$ 4,950 dollar). It
should be noticed, though, that early larvae capture would reduce this productivity
figures and, furthermore the region's mangrove are already highly deteriorated.
Also it is not clear that the Asia figures can be extrapolated to the Nicaragua case.
(4) Studies of several Caribbean areas have estimated net harvest values ranging from
a low US$ 50 dollars/halyear where only traditional extractive activities take
4      Although several references mentioned 7,000 ha of existing ponds, those in production seem
to be only a fraction --around 250 ha. to 300 ha.-- considering 1993 figures for shrimp production --
138,198 kgs - and average yields of 545 kgs/hectare.
5      In 1995 two small projects with international support began working on sustainable
development projects in region's mangrove areas.



Annex 12
Economic Impacts
Page 5 of 10
place, up to a high US$ 1,550 dollars/ha/year where intensive shrimp ponds are in
place (Hamilton/Snedaker, 1984).6
Considering the high range of extractive activities reported in the region's mangroves -
-US$ 200 per ha/year of net benefits-- the net present value of an hectare of mangrove over a
20 year period, would be around US$ 1,700-1,900. With a conservative mangroves'
deforestation figure of 3.5% per year, the present value of potential losses of mangrove
deforestation over a 20 years period would represent about US$33.8 million. It should be
remembered that these are "potential" net benefits, that only would accrue if and when the
mangrove is harvested on a sustainable base.
Costs of conservation cum sustainable production projects in mangrove areas varies
widely, with some estimates developed during project preparation as low as US$ 70/hectare
and two current projects in the area featuring costs around US$ 500/hectare. Allocating 25%
of the project's environmental component (US$1.5 million) to mangrove protection could result
in the conservation of some 3,000 hectare of mangrove, with a present value of potential
benefits of about US$ 3.6 million and a benefit cost ratio of 2.4.
Municipal and Community Infrastructure Subprojects.
Both provision of drinking water and roads improvernent have been singled out as the
most important infrastructure developments to ameliorate the plight of rural poor in Nicaragua
(World Bank, 1995). Therefore they are used below as examples of the activities that could be
funded by the project's infrastructure subprojects (US$ 7.4 million).
Rural water supply. According to end of 1993 figures, over 70% of Nicaragua's
rural poor lacked access to piped water, inside or outside their houses, or access to a public
standpipe. Almost all rural poor lacked any sewer system and over 156,000 rural poor (some
27,000 families) lacked a water connection or access to a public standpipe. The high social and
economic costs of this situation have been repeatedly highlighted:
"...children in households without water and sanitation are twice more likely to be
malnourished than children in households with water and sanitation.. Low coverage
of water and sanitation services.. explain why diarrhea and vector borne diseases are
still the main causes of morbidity and mortality in Nicaragua" (World Bank, 1995,
p.ii).
Poor people in rural areas pay for trucks delivered water more then ten times the urban
water rates: US$ 2 to US$ 3.3 per cubic meter, compared to an average of US$ 0.16 per cubic
meter paid in urban areas. Considering that, on average, poor rural dwellers without water
services use one hour a day for water collection, each family is investing the equivalent of US$
110 per year to obtain a very limited supply of poor quality water (this figure is based on a
salary of US$ 0.30 per hour, that is the lower end of hourly earnings of poor rural females).
Considering an opportunity cost correction factor for rural labor in Nicaragua of 0.6, the
economic cost of water collection at present per family-year would be US$ 66.
6      Hamilton L & Snedaker S. (1994) "Handbook for Mangrove Area Management". IUCN,
UNECO, UNEP, EWC, Gland.



Anncx 12
Economic Impacts
Page 6 of 10
Costs of rural water provision vary with the characteristics of the site and the
pretended level of service. Cost of house connection to piped systems (gravity or power
pumped water systems) ranges from US$ 45 to US$ 100 per person. Providing individual or
communal manual pumps is much cheaper, with per capita costs in the range of US$ 10 to
US$ 30. Using US$ 50 as an intermediate value (US$ 290 per family), providing water to all
the non-served rural poor in Leon and Chinandega, would cost US$ 7.8 million. Assuming
that US$ 5.9 million would be spent in community rural water projects, the present value of
costs including 5% per year of operation and maintenance would add up to US$ 8.2 million,
compared with US$ 11.0 million of family savings. The benefit cost ratio would be 1.3.
Rehabilitation of Rural Municipal and Community Roads. Between 1980 and 1991
Nicaragua lost 3,500 km of rural roads, almost 20% of its 1980 road system. Bad rural roads
have been blamed for agricultural production losses, high transport costs, and hence high
spreads between market prices and farmn prices (see World Bank, 1995, vol 1). During 1994,
wholesale prices were 39% higher than farm-gate prices, for a weighted average of the six
more important regional crops.
Le6n and Chinandega have 2,500 Km of roads, of which 950 are rural roads, suitable
for dry season use only. The costs of upgrading community and municipality roads to an
around-the-year use standard range between US$ 800 to US$ 1,500 per km. To revamp the
thousand kilometers of existing rural roads and assuming the higher figure cost, would cost
about US$ 1.5 million (some 20% of the project's rural infrastructure component).
If better roads could reduce the spread between farm gate and wholesale prices by 5%
(from 39% to 37%), that would represent an extra income to local farmers in the order of US$
2.9 dollars/mz/year, as much as US$ 0.8 million per year considering the current harvested
area.7 Over 20 years, and considering the higher investment cost (US$ 1,500 per km) plus 5%
annual maintenance cost, the present value of total cost would amount to US$ 2.1 million,
compared to the present value of benefits of US$ 6.7 million and a benefit-cost ratio of 3.2
Increases in farm-gate prices are not the only result from better rural roads. According
to the World Bank poverty report, poor rural roads, together with lack of storage and treatment
facilities, contributed to the loss of as much as 20% of the corn and 8% of the beans harvested
in Nicaragua (World Bank, 1995 vol I p.42). Better rural roads would result in an increase in
production and a decrease in crop losses. Hence the figures quoted are a low estimate of the
benefits accruing from better rural roads.
Community Productive Subprojects
Each category of municipal investments would have, directly or indirectly, a positive
impact on rural production. The category of municipal subprojects specifically aims at
increasing rural production from poor farmers. In total about US$7.4 million of community
productive investments could be financed through the project. Their financial and economic
costs and benefits are addressed in this section.
' Based in a Co. 1465,20 per hectare average value for the 1993/94 harvest of 274,000 manzanas.
Although only a portion of the regional crop is produced in areas with poor roads, the total crop area
is used in this estimation since the 39% price spread is an overall average.



Annex 12
Economic Impacts
Page 7 of 10
To evaluate the economic returns to subprojects included in this category eleven
expected crop or activity budgets and three farm models were assessed. These budgets and
farm models compare the with and without project situation and forecast improvements upon
current production practice that would result in a 20% to 33% increase in crop yields,
according to the selected crop or activity. The yield increases would come about through soil
conservation measures and new inputs, specially better seeds. Summary information on crops,
family income per cropped area, and expected outputs are provided in Tables A 12.1 and
A12.2.
Table A12.1. With and Without Project scenarios: Crop/Activity Budgets
Crop/Activity Model        Yields/ha (vear 5)   Income before labor    Increase %
w/o     with        w/o      with      Yield    Income
Corn (qq)                    40        50        101       118        20        17
Beans (qq)                   15        20        79        143        33        81
Rice (qq)                    36        45        200       281        25         8
Sorghum (qq)                 40        50        139       149        20         7
Peanuts (qq)                 35        45         13        99        28        660
Ajonjoli (qq)                16        20        255       290        25        14
Meat (kg)                    21        26         30        39        17        39
Meat (kgs)                   32        45
& Milk (It)            550       650        164       203        20        24
Weighted Average                                 77        187                  142
For the purpose of the financial and economic analysis, several representative farm
models where developed in order to show what would happen without the project and what
would occur with the proposed project. The models indicate present and projected values for
the main variables (investments, labor use, operating costs, production and gross and net
family revenues) considering market prices the financial analysis and economic (or shadow)
prices for the estimation of the overall impact of the project. For the latter, a standard
conversion factor of 0.85 was considered and a cost of labor conversion factor of 0.60 was
used in order to obtain an approximation of the opportunity cost of family labor. The seven
farm models represent a variety of farming systems expected to be chosen/promoted and the
expected changes in cropping patterns/family incomes. Table A. 12.2 summarizes the with
project situation for the seven farm models.
Table A12.2. Expected project-induced cropping patterns (in ha)
Farm Model                              Crop/Activitv*
Crop/Act  1    2    3    4    5 S    6    7    8    9    10   11   Total
Subsistence 3 ha    1    1                                       0.5        0.5    3
Agroforestry 5 ha   2    2                           0.5                    0.5    5
Agr/livestock 5 ha                   1           1               2     1           5
*1. Corn; 2. Beans; 3. Rice; 4. Sorghum;   6. Sesame; 7. Banana; 8. Extensive Meat Cattle; 9.
Double Purpose Cattle;  10. Eucalyptus; 11. Pochote trees



Annex 12
Economic Impacts
Page 8 of 10
The summary results of the economic retums from the adoption of those farm models
is presented in Table A12.3. All models are financially profitable suggesting that beneficiaries
are likely to be interested in the adoption of the conservation measures and changes in cropping
patterns sampled. However in the case of smaller-income farms, although financially profitable
(positive NPV and attractive IRR), a decline in family income in the first years may prevent
households from adopting the conservation measures and agroforestry systems analyzed. In
such cases it is justified, given the project's poverty objective, that financial incentives be
offered through the project in order to facilitate the adoption of the new patterns provided that
the soil improvement interventions and positive environmental effects are achieved.
Table A12.3. Farm Models: Financial Indicators (in US$/farm/annum)
Farm Models               Farm Family Benefits after Financing
Without             With                    IRR      NPV
Years     1 - 20    1       S    10 - 20  % incr
Subsistence 3 ha     298      124      369      753     150%      45%      1.923
Agroforestry 5 ha   1.024     320     1.039    1.780     74%      19%      997
Ag/Livestock 5 ha    760      671     1.041    1.100    45%       49%      1.152
To estimate the economic impact of the productive projects' subcomponent, with and
without project scenarios were considered, assuming that 10,000 small farmers (households)
would be benefited.
3.     POVERTY ALLEVIATION
The project focus is on environmental protection and poverty alleviation. References
have already been made to both issues in relation to the environmental protection and to the
rural water components. Some further comments on the extent and composition of poverty, and
on the potential poverty alleviation impact of financing rural production follow.
According to the World Bank 1995 study, Nicaragua's poverty line as of November
1993 was Co 214.47 of per capita monthly income (with an extreme poverty line at Co. 101.32
of per capita monthly income). Since the average rural family size is 5.8 persons per
household, the rural family income poverty line, adjusted to 1995 prices would be al Co.
18,700 family/year or US$ 2,487 /family/year.8
As of the end of 1993, Nicaragua had a total population of 4 million people. Le6n and
Chinandega accounted for 702,000 people of which 312,000 people lived in rural areas. At
that time, more than half Nicaragua's population was under the poverty line, and almost 20%
of the population was in extreme poverty. Country-wide, poverty is concentrated in rural
areas. This pattern is even more marked in Ledn and Chinandega (see Table A 12.4)
8      The poverty line is defined as the total per capita monthly expenditure at which an
individual obtains the minimum daily caloric requirements. The extreme poverty line is defined as the
level of per capita monthly food expenditures required to obtain the daily minimum caloric
requirement (World Bank, 1995, vo. I p.2). Hereafter figures for poor population are inclusive of
extremely poor population.



Annex 12
Economic Impacts
Page 9 of 10
Table A12.4 Regional Poverty Figures
Leon and Chinandega                      Population, 1993, thousandsl
Farms 2 1994, number
Total Population                                 702|
Rural Population                                 312|
Region Poor                                     334
Region Rural Poor                        223 (67% of region poor)l
Region Extremely Poor                               133
Region Rural Extremely Poor               109 (82% of region extremely poor)
Farms of less than 5 Mz                         33.000 (51%)
Farms of less than 25 Mz                         17.534 (27%)
Farms of less than 100 Mz                        10.288 (16%)
Total Number of Farms                           64.705 (100%)
As much as 83% of the rural poor male population is engaged in agriculture, in most
cases both as peasants and occasional wage earners. Although the majority of Nicaragua's
rural poor households are peasants, only half their income comes from farming and related
activities9 with another third coming from wages.
The US$ 6.7 million that according to demand estimates are expected to be channeled
to community productive subprojects could benefit between 1,450 and 10,000 such families. If
the higher figure were achieved it would signify benefiting 25% of the region's poor farmers.
Comparatively, in 1993 only 720 poor farmers in the region received some kind of assistance
(averaging $ 560 dollars).
Reaching 25% of the region poor farmers is probably difficult. According to some
estimates, for a farm to produce an annual income of US$ 2,500 dollars/year, it should have
between 4 and 14 ha in production (depending on the crop mix). But the majority of poor
farmers have holdings of less than 3 hectares. Significant increases in small farm sizes would
be called for in order to achieve above poverty incomes, based solely in the farm production.
On the other hand, farming is currently a marginal source of income for a considerable number
of poor peasants. Thus the project includes in the category of community productive
subprojects non-farm investments, such as microenterprises and small processing facilities,
which would be a way to complement, or in some cases substitute for, farn income, in order to
help a larger number of rural poor rise above poverty incomes.
4.     SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
Tables A12.5 through A12.7 give a summarv presentation of the findings in terms of
economic benefits, environmental improvements, and poverty alleviation. The proposed project
is expected to have a positive impact on the country's economy and on the sustainability of its
natural resources. The NPV of the incremental benefits, net of project costs was estimated at
9      These figures add up self-employment, imputed rent, and own production (World Bank,
1995 Vol 11 p.64)



Annex 12
Economic Impacts
Page 10 of 10
US$2.3 million and the Benefit/Cost Ratio at a 10% discount rate was 1.04. As for
uncertainties and the risks of failing to attain the proposed targets, rural infrastructure
development presents the lowest risks. While there is a large experience in rural projects, in
most cases rural development fails to attain the project's design figures. The environmental
component entails the highest risks due to Nicaragua's limited experiences with this type of
activities.
Table A12.5 Summary of the Project's Potential Environmental Benefits
Benefit                   Area Benefited              Percentage of Total
On-farm Erosion Control                 27,500 ha.                       14
l Mangrove Protection                     3000ha                          4
Table A12.6 Summary of the Project's Potential Economic Benefit
(US$ million)
Project   Present Value of  Present Value  Benefit-Cost
Project Component          Costs    Investment and     of Benefits       Ratio
Operation Costs
Municipal Investments            23.5           45.2             64.0           1.4
Environment                     6.0            4.3             7.7            1.8
Infrastructure                  6.9            9.7             13.2           1.4
Community Productive            6.9           27.8             43.1           1.6
Capacity Building               3.7            3.4             n.e.           n.e
Other Project Investments        16.9           16.5             n.e            n.e
Total                      40.4          61.7             64.0           1.04
Notes: PV Present value over a 20 year period at a 10% discount rate. / n.e.: no estimation available /
numbers are rounded /Source: All figures are based in the next text discussion.
Table A12.7 Summary of the Project's Potential Poverty Alleviation Benefits
Subprojects              No of                     Percentage of
Beneficiary
Families
Region's      Region's       Country's
Rural poor     Total poor       Poor
Erosion Control                    14,100          35             22             4
Mangrove Protection                 46              1             1              --
Rural Water Supply                 15100           58             37             6
Rural Roads                         n.e.          n.e.           n.e            n.e
Community Productive            1500-10000       5 - 25         2 - 14       less than 3
Note: numbers are rounded / Source: See text for details.



NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
ANNEX 13
REPORTS IN PROJECT FILE
The following documents prepared or received during project preparation are in the
Project File located in the managing division, LASLG. These documents will be forwarded to the
LAC Information Center.
1. PROJECT PREPARATION DOCUMENTS
Background Documents
(1) Descripci6n del Area del Proyecto
(2)  Diagn6sdco Legal de la Aplicacion de la Normativa Ambiental en Nicaragua
(3)  Capacidad Institucional de las Municipalidades
(4)  Caracterizaci6n de Algunas ONG s
(5)  Caracterizaci6n Econdmica, Le6n-Chinandega. (Informe 14, Managua, Julio, 1995)
(6)  Uso Potencial y Actual de la Tierra, Le6n-Chinandega (Informe 15, Managua, Julio,
1995)
(7)  Recursos Naturales Renovables, Le6n-Chinandega (Informe 16, Managua, Julio,
1995)
(8)  Areas Protegidas, Le6n-Chinandega (Informe 17, Managua, Julio,1995)
(9)  Ancilisis de Proyectos en Ejecuci6n (Informe 19, Managua, Julio, 1995)
(10) Nicaragua and the Western Region: Poverty and Socio-Economic Conditions
(11) Estudio sobre la poblaci6n rural de Le6n y Chinandega
(12) Evaluaci6n Social de la Poblaci6n Indigena SUTL4BA
(13) Caracterizaci6n Econ6mica de la Regi6n de Le6n-Chinandega
(14) Estrategia de Biodiversidadpara Nicaragua (borrador)
(15) Municipal Finances and Decentralization.



Annex 13
Reports in Project File
Page 2 of 4
(16)  ?iabilidady Condiciones Legales de Cumplimiento de un Componente de Legalizaci6n
de Tierra a las Comunidades Indigenas de la Costa Atldntica dentro del Proyecto de
Manejo de Recursos Naturales -- IPDP Info4rms Preliminar y Final
(48) An6lisis de la Ley 70: Ley de Servicio Civil y de la Carrera Administrativa; un
Enfoque desde la Administracidn Publica Municipal
(51) Normas y Regulaciones y Estado Actual de los Anteproyectos de Leyes Ambientales en
la Legislaci6n Nicaraguense
(57) Regimen Juridico: Medio A,mbiente y Gobierno Local
(60) La Descentralizaci6n en la Nueva Ley de Municipios
(62) Evaluacion Diagnostico Contable Municipal: Diagn6stico por Municipio
(63) Evaluacion Diagn6stico Contable Municipal: Municipios de Leon
(64) Evaluaci6n Diagn6stico Contable Municipal: Santa Rosa del Penom
(65) Evaluacion Diagn6stico Contable Municipal: Municipios de Chinandega
(66) Evaluaci6n Diagndstico Contable Municipios Zelaya
(67) Evaluacion Diagn6stico Contable Municipios de Rio San Juan
(68) Evaluacidn Diagn6stico Contable Municipios Puerto Morazan
(69) Evaluacion Diagn6stico Contable Municipios Sto Tomas del Norte
(70) Evaluaci6n Diagn6stico Contable Municipios Morrito
Project Description
(17) Reforma de Politicas y Fortalecimiento Institucional
(18) Generaci6n y Transferencia de Tecnologia
(19) Educaci6n Ambiental
(20) Demanda de Subproyectos (Consulta Municipal)
(21) Modelos de Subproyectos
(22) Manejo y Conservaci6n de Zonas Costeras y Recursos Marinos (Informe 18,
Managua, Julio, 1995)



Annex 13
Reports in Project File
Page 3 of 4
(23) MARENA: Organizacion de la Divisi6n General de Planificaci6n (Junio, 1995)
(24) Capacidad de las Municipalidades y de los ONG s para Participar en Proyectos de
Desarrollo Ambiental.
(25) Asignaci6n de Recursos para Inversi6n Municipal
(54) Atividades Realizadas en el Area de Relaciones con la Poblacidn Civil: MARENA.
Project Management
(26) Fondos Municipales para el Manejo y Conservacion de los Recursos Naturales
(Documento del Proyecto)
(27) Fondos Municipales para el Manejo y Conservacidn de los Recursos Naturales (Anexos)
(28) Plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto (Propuesta Preliminar)
(29) Ordenamiento Ambiental del Territorio, Le6n y Chinandega
(30) Manual de Operaciones Proyecto de Ordenamiento y Manejo de Tierras y Recursos
Naturales
(31) Manual de Capacitacion del Ciclo de Subprojectos (en preparacion)
(32) Evaluaci6n/Diagn6stico Contable de 32 Municipios, INIFOMy MARENA
(33) Sistema de Procedimientos Ambientales para la Gesti6n Ambiental Municipal
(borrador). Carlos Rivas Leclair, consultant. INIFOM, March 1996.
(34) Esquema para Desarollar las Funciones de Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n
(49) Modelo de Organizaci6n para Alcaldias
(50) Propuesta de Anteproyecto de Ley de Carrera Administrativa Municipal
(52) Atividades Ejecutadas en la Consultoria de Cooperacion Externa
(53) Informe Final de Atividades para la Direccion de Relaciones Institucionales
(55) Breve Informe de Asesor Tecnico Principal
(56) Manual de Funciones, Municipios Tipo C y D
(58) El Proceso de Planificaci6n Local Participativa
(59) Manual de Planificacion Local Participativa



Annex 13
Reports in Project File
Page 4 of 4
(61) La Descentralizacion en la Nueva Ley de Municipios, Anteproyecto de Consenso:
AMUNIC, PADCO, lNIFOM
2. OTHER BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS
(35) Estudio de Diagn6stico Institucional y Reestructuracion - Ministerio de Acci6n Social
(Managua, Noviembre, 1994)
(36) Estudio de Diagn6stico Institucional y Reestructuracidn - Ministerio de Ambiente y
Recursos Naturales (Managua, Noviembre, 1994)
(37) Estudio de Diagnostico Institucionaly Reestructuracion -Instituto Nicaraguense de
Seguridad Social y Bienestar (Managua, Noviembre, 1994)
(38) Estudio de Diagnostico Institucional y Reestructuraci6n - Ministerio de Construccion
y Transporte (Managua, Noviembre, 1994)
(39) Estudio de Diagnostico Institucional y Reestructuracion - Ministerio de Gobernaci6n
(Managua, Noviembre, 1994)
(40) Estudio de Diagn6stico Institucional y Reestructuracion del Ministerio de Finanzas -
Resumen Ejecutivo - Borrador del Informe Final (Managua, Mayo, 1995)
(41) Institutional Diagnostic and Restructuring Study - Final Report (Managua, November,
1994)
(42) Institutional Diagnostic and Restructuring Study -Ministry of Economy and
Development (Managua, November, 1994)
(43) Vision, Mision, Funciones Institucionales y Objetivos y Funciones por Areas
Organizativas delMinisterio del Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (MARENA, Junio,
1995)
(44) Plan de Acci6n Forestal
(45) Plan de Acci6n Ambiental
(46) Estrategia Nacional para la Conservacion y Desarollo Sostenible
(47) Marco Conceptual y Plan de Acci6n para el Desarollo del Sistema Internacional de Areas
Protegidas para La Paz (SI-A-PAZ)



NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT
MAPS
Map IBRD 27444. Nicaragua - Physiography
Map IBRD 27445. Nicaragua - Administrative Divisions
Map IBRD 27446 Nicaragua - Areas of Poverty
Map IBRD 27447 Nicaragua - Natural Forest Cover
Map IBRD 27448 Nicaragua.- IDA Project and Associated GEF Project Areas






IBRD 27444
87'                               85'                               85' 
NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES
--,  e >i~  q                                                 PROJECT
.-                       -    -                   0         '           Mi59UltD5PHYSIOGRAPHY
HONDURAS                                                  J                                                                              sands                            ALTITDESM
250
_4,J                                                                                                                                                                              tn /                   !   r  , 14-  -   PAVED ROADS
-  UNPAVED ROADS
TA T.SM5AIZr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  DPARTMENT CAPRALS
*NATIONAL CAPITAL
DEPARTMENT EOUJNDARIES
C.~~~~Ch4
13NADA X -      '' , =A BD-
U     LU    "I   6SO 5          100
OCEANi                3               INcol-ogua         J.g    _  1 1                    ' '                                             MexiCCdd0j    r<  I              I 
" i \   i         S A N C A R L O S S   ,/      \ ,            ,   ,                                      _ , .     , .      D  IL O,s_IE T E S
12-                                                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.tWEPAELDS  i2-
GRA,ADA w                                  '9                                                                                           -   y A.AdIMA
_   -   '           '  1;,                                   _        _               COSTA  RICA  PANAMA   '(t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~I --  -
8 r                 Sse                                85                                 S -                                8 r                         t        as         az.        C Oak e  W
CCEAN ~~~~~~~~NNicarogua                                                      9'I
I A   p'-,                                          C~~~~~~~~~~~~UATEMIALA,   HONDUJRAS 
EL   --TGVN VU
-. ..                                                                            S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALVADOR
IC               ~~~~~COSTA RICA  ~    I
COSTA RICA                              .   A-
8~~~  16'                   55-             ~~~~~~                                                                                   ~COLOVASIA
AUGUST I99






IBRD 27445
NICARAGUA                                    8'                                       85                                        84                                       83                                                  MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES PROJECT                                                                                                                                               .'....-                             '                                 'Dep.me.io I              I CRE,oA
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                                                                                                                                    R.AA /                                                    449                            CHINANDmGA                     9454AY
-"N                                                                               DNns8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I49S.Pd,AAddTlA        98   TA-
|     'eL                         P.*.r.Esim PLASES I S 2  /   \,   ,}   ~   L   t'.*   -"4j   *.c         2 PUERTOC.LEZAS                50  ASo- Paso                  99 N,n,T
A~CPA-jTE5I.SASSE   8                                                                     .IN..                                                                        '                                3    - Paaas51   I- T-ideI M-                              'too   -SAYAD
4 Rosa                 ~~~~~52 SccF..... .d.4Nas      01LCccp
R_-EDSED ADD TION-A. NIJ(CIPAI IIES                                                       I.                                                                        S\ S.u                                                                53 Sa-asIl                   102 Mcss
EOR ELOASE         AJIJAI                                                                                                                                                             Caycs                6 WcasN                        54 A_iocasas                  103  N.d
- AFD ROADS                                                                            .                                                                                                   t \  soys       7     Ennas5  fo-oL                                          104  N,q .
INPDAED ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ElN***~.  slns5   TIA-   102  C--o
I NPVEDhADSH  O   N    D  U  R A  S                                                                                                                                IA AS                      -'57 C INANDEGA                106          d. 0r
25O I- usC AL C-ElALI 5)                                                                     J                                                                              "                                     8   C-Ran-;A     d.            58 Ch.cENgolp
2)   CE0 E-TPAL CAPITALb *                                                                            < I /                                                                                                     9      Ea    - as RA;AT         59 PaoIa,o                         CARAZ8
C.)  DELAPIMENT CAPITAO         s's -             '*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                      'as      >                                                   10 MosA  as Basyas              60  El RasIss                107  SoT MAccs~~~loM-l  B.  60El -I-Joy5_ 
-3 L94l .r.At tAL " Al                     i~ |~1                                                                                                                                                         I I \  )  n J  11 E h=mc  El R.R  61                          108  Dloags-
PRAr.DTRALCAD AL        /                       L.-'                                          ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /  722                     5 OasA'E,I                                                   509  DcIc.as~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.10   D
-         0AP.'CIPAL O.DNEAR ES                                          ,E AJTL A                                                         N' r                           >F" 52 Iaas d .                                                     LSON                     150  IrCTEPP
DEPARTMENT PI  NEIAR ES                                               -                            p                                                          5                                          '14 BLUEFIELES                   62 Adh-                       III  ElRoo-
-  - olrRNAroNAldOuMDAREs _ 13 \ t g < ,/} L_ 1* J~~~~~~~~~~*                                                                                                                                           62AEAoasIllEG6 ElJ cRol '.35Dm_
NTI~~~-T 0-1 30-1)AR ES/                                                                                                  c!i*                                                           s N#aG-_.                       63  EIS...                    112  L.cP..ds C.-s
PcTPENATOPAALEOJNDARIS         jP                                                                                         nIL! ~~~~~' N.64 Sc-,IR.cc ddP'c                                                                                                  113  ScAnS. .-
23              *                                                        4                                                                                     49T00                        65  ElJEcol.                 1  14  C-,,,A5An
N                                     A S5g pa              -                                                                                                                                                                  16 b b e a no4                   66        Ic                      GANAA
7LaPda-a                    67  EAcc                             MND
t                    /              V    *c~2           '             /2                                                                                                           _  _  -cs                         68   ASA a                  '115.        A b 1 E C  -
124   ~~~~~~ 026    29i  ~~~~~~~~~21                                                                                            19 Sa.,S~~~~~~~~~~~coccdsTcR    '69  LEON                     116  0,,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~'9  EO  D--
P 21,  1.1130     033     0 16                                                                                                                                          20   S-    'R c a a               7     P      o117                D,  ---
23p.4..03O   1                  t    eI~                                                                         =1 LaCcaasas2                                                                                        7   N                         Ia 7Il    -d-
MAD_? A           934        -                                                                                                                                                              '22 JIN9C8EGA
TA  3 736c  8~39                 .                              I                                                                                                                                        MATAGALDA                      DIVAS
'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  17 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NUEVA50OVIA                                                                                                           72  -~ Poc,G-nc               119  Eaa
a                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24 Soca0-aM  74  S-c1l.d.  121  Pc-'
T.     4         4                                                                                                                                                                                   25 Mas0a                         7   PAfAEAALPA               122  R-.,A A-s
0.!A     CEA,ss             D- -572                                                                                                                                                                               26 ).'Ias                        76    ~ SaRca                13  Dc.
O                                                                                                                    '~~~~~~~            ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~27 OCOTM  77 5.. RI... ~  '124 IA
0 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~C ar i bb                                                                  e   an            2Siach78 5...I25  "aad.I
33                                     0~~~~~~~  62;                                                                                                                                                                   29  SacEsFssas79 Cassdo.d 1.-                                  26  AI1apcA
15  ~~~~~~....4                                                                                                                                                                                                    3'-      3  C-4oc                         ID  T-Icoa,                  127 S..cj-s'c1IS.,
AN'  74        *        -                                                                                                           Sea                           21 Cas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sass,ca  81  SacOacs.      120  Cccd.cas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Se    1  .,ddS.d.  .   18   .,-
''ERJY  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                                                                                                            32 8&-A                          82 EMp
A-N  i                                                                                                                                          ~ ~~~~~~~            ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33 Co,,1  83  M,M5C5NAI
'0674Ma;                                                                                                                                                                                                          19C"'abN
P6Laa6"-                      86 S- LAc.a                   133  Sac Pso,d. 1sg
''91    ~~~~~~~~S6,'O3  PLap.6 aa                                                                                                                                                               '87  BOACO                     134  S- Taacas
68  \$0  .8;        5)                                                  \iu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                  28 Edpa'.n                       SD  Ta,.p.                   125  V,IIaSocd,as~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32Ti-  T--13   V11
L'A NT C3 9 SacN                                                                          I..sC-s            89Saa.                       126Acpa
O'                                        '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'l 3 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1lo ~aRIG SAN JUAN
129                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42 S-. - os,C.-,.p  MNGA             137   -.N
I   I                          320                                                                                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~        ~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~91  5-cP,FosoL,b.  38  ElIAIad,.
PACIFIC                                                                                                3                                                                                                                                                 T.,"                     129  SLacoag,sEca
43 P,.~~~~~ N-   93                                 IN~'14   CARLQS
1 3  1  135                                                                                    ~     ~~~        ~           ~     ~~~~~~~~~     ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~C-sd.g  94 A,IIsC.,  IAa.A  4 Ia-cd.S8Eaas
IL2           OCEANF.    td                                                                                                                                            4'                                               12'       45 D~S--dasp                     95  Da-cI.61dddLc            142S.I..d
94          1360                                                                                                                  .~~~~~~~~          ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46 P5588  "96 PANA0G.A
47ScNas                         97 Tccccap
912
,~~~~~~~~    <.1    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I,9 -           13MEXICO'                                                                                                                                                                                  'BEUiE
0                                                                                             139A  i ANTiC
~~~~~~~G1   103  106  115                                                                                                                                                              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UATEMALAk   H0O4DURAS  OCA
1<03                                                            01                        """'t,ose's'                              0      20      RD      80      PA      IDE                                            NICARAC'41A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2  1  6  8   10  ICPAU
108  *:-'iG~~~~~    116 /7                                                                                                  L4 .I                                                                                                                         SALVADOR               S
109-Dy   y  12  .117                                          -                                                                                     KILOMEIDRE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILMTESI
j1    1~~~~~~3   118                                                                                              14201                                                                                     IE      PACIFIC              CODIA RICA   PANPAsPA     TO'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~421  PCItCPAAM
____________                                                          ~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTA  RICA                                                                                                          CAN-1   A'-
87                                        88                                        85,                                        84'                                      83'                                                                               aR6?                      COLOMBIA






IBRD 27446
NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES
PROJECT
AREAS OF POVERTY
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~                                                                                                 ro    to_                                                          POTE2RTY     Pi EPRCENT UPT   TAIRS O
HONDURAS 'LA -                                                                                                        7                                                              ICdIICN    PUPHEN EUN   ES
-   EXTEmE POVIERIY         5  N        9
HIGH POVERTY       52          9
MEDIUM AND          33         -9
LESSER POVERTY    LIU IoA)~
IA                                                                                                                                           IA.                ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- PA-ED ROADS
-    UNPAVED ROADS
ToTqAc'goLpo~                                                                                                                                                                           DEPARTMENT NoloAR CAPITALS
NATIONL CAPITAL
-----MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
j                                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT EOUJNDAR ES
C             .. - ,NTERNAT,ONAL  BOUNDAIES
O, .;N                                                                                                            '                                                                  ,               ,                     ,,           ,
.4~~~~~~~~~~~A
ma                                                                                 r                        C a r;ihhbnann
4:       .                                                                                                         *-                 .',                                                                                  ,
CHIP;~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~ -C                                                                                                                                     ACFCCBT  PApNrL
0~~~~~
T!                                                                                                                                  EL KILOMETERS
NADA
P-ACIFIC                                             *~,                    Loke   iJ                                                                                                 I
MEXICC~'   USEDZE
OCEAN                                                                   NiUco rgua                                                                                                       -  1 ILANIC
v                                              G-b                                                ,"    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UTEL; HONDURAS  OCa EAPV
*,R               'TI                                                           E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLVAO  : -U
ITT'                      COSTA RICA    ANAMA    I
PACIFIC
COSTA  RICAOCA                                                                                                                                 .*
87'                                   SE                                    S                                                                           L.SO -p                                                          CLOMUIA
AUOUST LEVY






IBRD 27447
07-                               BS'                                 as84 3-
NICARAGUA
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES
_-F                                                    RURAL -   . .PROJECT
NATURAL FOREST COVER
H O  N  D  U  R A  S                     .                                                                                                 Mi >s 4zo J S _ lMqods.it.M       PINE FORESTS
C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II.sTROPICS, BROADLEAF FORESTS
P       INE SAVANNA.
*  7]                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COASfAL WVETI.ANDS
I    &./          \                     *      '     O        C        KN NoNATURAL VEGETIAON
,                                                          .               . 1A)                                       -           )ROA                                                                        PAVED ROADS
UNP,VED ROADS
DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
* NATIONAL CAPITAL
- MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
-. DEPARiMENT BOUNDARIES
CT.RF,I.AH                                                                                                                                                                       N -$  - - ONTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_ . ,   >  _\_                        i                                        I I-         SAtvAf_,_~~~~~CLi   i/  L- A  ._
13-8                                                                                                                                                                            13 sf  8'8-re             6B.CIML
RR K                                arbbec
CHI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                            V~           V      E     T
?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTR
NA UA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI 
II'                                                                                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       
A,'Y              CSTARCA                               I          V..
GUATEIMLI, " HONDUAUUSTRLS






IBRD 2.7448
NICARAGUA
5                                                                                                                                              3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
RURAL MUNICIPALITIES
PROJECT
IDA PROJECT AND ASSOCIATED
GEF PROJECT AREAS
HONDURAS                                                                                                                                          WaA IDIADdE                  PHASE I & 2 IIDA COMPONEN
1J       ES I PA .I,ISI PPHASE I ES DA  llPCN El ]I
PROPOSED PROJECT EXPANSION FOR PHASE 2
IDA I rER COMPONENT
PROPOSED ADDITCP,AL -IT. I -'AE
LALANTCO                                                                         1OP PHASE S3  DA CCMIPOE-3 A
j  i  OC;ocAl  F: '_w ^ ;'; ^              \>/                                       #               5      3      >      +               B  S                         ;UplauLrusALRCHllER~~~~~~~~~~~~~T CBEZS  E-11~ENE.ICIID
jP                                                                                                                                                     COERSOR GE' { ] f '- T-! I        | COMEBMI  P.' lO-0FN
frnxEL   \EOPETTED AREASFS  IJINOTE.NA THEede<p                             >C                                                                                              AVANT CTi bl H
-.-.   .-.-.                                                                                                              - - -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APPROETMATE LOCAT OP I>
t  OCTOCAL           .
7-                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING ECOSYSTEM.
13C.                                                                                                                      ^, < . A  G  .4; ;FEA Ro 49 S e a 1 3 HIAD F.eehooTOrESTs
-SOMOTO                                                                                                                                                                 TSTMHTB=  HMI.-d S-.-d       6
C       H         ED                JINANDEGAJT                                                                  ,     .* ,         Caribbean
CH+t  [EOt  J  _Fta, r _ X ,, S.r1 v F S DEM-- uto tAPrIAf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ar   b    e    n                                                     ~         ETND
13                     -      / J     UATAGA[PAAS  e ..                                                                                                                                                        HC           ;.. . .   =p
M1 MASAYA    A PA  GA                                                       C-     FACL-S 12
Hi                                                                                                                                                                                            IL1GANDAGA  IL D    Sok.
JINOTEPE  ,_- fS 1 ,> \ D._       /           \           t         w*      9    60y~~~~~~T                                           T-u 0n  -  -dr ,>    78sz,,   it;
sLEON                                  -'.-                                                                                                                                             I)EPARTENT CAPITAGS
OCEAN  RIVAS   l -.lc:;-rSgt            a                                                                                                N.T 0- CAP TA;n  _ _    , A D
o tta                                      ( BOACO                                                                                                                                  DEATETSTOLES
2 GEe                                  -A         N                                                                                      INTERNATIONA. B0U,.O*_ ES
z                                                                            20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S    *0    SD40I
OUGALP  A                                                                                                                              K3UETESERl
12                                              NT~~~~~~~~~~~~ASAYA2
GRANADA                                                                          '1-1d
l.tHOTEPE~     ~  S1 NA DA
OCEAN                                              RIVAS                                     JUAN-gO  ~~                                                                             ,jSPA    OETRTCA
SANCA OS           Dsp~~~~~~~~~~~~~NCRAP
SALVAHDOR N[A-OA
P A CF!           COTA.IRICA  PANAM 
RICA                                             - 5  Ta
37'                        36~~~~~~~~P                           85                                   3i                                                                 d3                     :CL  s 
.   |  .                                                                       3                                                                 I                       r          I _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9












