Page  1
LATEN Dissemination Note # 17 
Social Assessment for the Nicaragua 
Rural Municipalities Project: 
Poverty, Gender, and Indigenous Issues in the Integration  
of Environment and Rural Reconstruction Assistance 
September 1996 
 
Valeria Junho Pena 
Marvin Ortega 
Marcia Arieira 
Maria Correia 
The World Bank 
Latin America Technical Department 
Environment Unit 
36152 
Page  2
ii 
Page  3
iii 
Contents 
Foreword
..................................................................................................................... v 
Acknowledgments
..................................................................................................... vi 
Abbreviations and Acronyms
................................................................................. vii 
Background
................................................................................................................. 1 
Socioeconomic Conditions of the Project Area
.........................................................3 
 Project 
Stakeholders..........................................................................................3 
 
General Economic and Demographic Features.................................................3 
 Land 
Tenure.......................................................................................................5 
Rural Poverty
...............................................................................................................6 
 
Living Conditions of the Poor...........................................................................6 
 
Rural People’s Perceptions of the Causes of Poverty........................................7 
 Rural 
Organizations...........................................................................................8 
 
Rural People’s Poverty Alleviation Priorities ...................................................9 
 
Rural People’s Perceptions of Local Governments.........................................10 
Gender Issues
.............................................................................................................11 
 
Gender Roles and Priorities.............................................................................11 
 
Gender Differences in Education ....................................................................12 
 
Gender and Participation in Rural Organizations............................................12 
The Sutiabas
...............................................................................................................13 
 
Who are the Sutiabas? .....................................................................................13 
 Sutiaba 
History................................................................................................13 
 Sutiabas 
Demographics ...................................................................................14 
 Sutiaba 
Land 
Claims........................................................................................15 
 
Employment and Income Among the Sutiaba.................................................16 
 
The Sutiabas and the Environment..................................................................17 
 
Social Organization Among the Sutiabas........................................................17 
Conclusions
.................................................................................................................20 
Action Plan for Project Implementation
.................................................................22 
 Rural 
Poverty...................................................................................................22 
 Gender .............................................................................................................22 
 Sutiabas............................................................................................................24 
Boxes 
1.  Data Sources and Results of the Social Assessment 
2 
2.  Poverty and Environmental Degradation: Views of the People 
8 
3.  Legislation Affecting Indigenous Property Rights 
15 
Page  4
iv 
Figures 
1.  Chinandega and Leon: Urban and Rural Poverty Rates 
4 
2.  Education Level of Heads of Households, by Gender 
2 
Tables 
1.  Poverty Rates for Conjugal and Single-Headed Household in Chinandega and Leon 
5 
2. Rural P
eople’s Priorities for Poverty Alleviation 
10 
Map 
Nicaragua: Social Assessement for the First Stage of the Rural Municipalities Project 
27 
 
Page  5
v 
Foreword
 
The Dissemination Note Series of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region’s 
Environment Unit (LATEN) seeks to share the results of our analytical and operational work, 
both completed or in progress. Through this series, we present the preliminary findings of 
larger studies in an abbreviated form, as well as describe “best practices” with regard to major 
environmental issues currently confronting countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. 
In most cases, these notes represent “work in progress” and as such have not  
been subject to either substantial internal review or editing. Therefore the findings, 
interpretations, and conclusions expressed in these notes are entirely those of the authors  
and should not be attributed to the World Bank, members of its Board of Executive Directors, 
or the countries they represent. 
Since one of the key objectives of these notes is to stimulate debate, we would 
encourage readers to contact the authors directly should they have any comments or 
suggestions as to how the analyses could be improved. 
 
William L. Partridge 
 Unit 
Chief 
 Environment 
Unit 
 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
The World Bank 
Page  6
vi 
Acknowledgments 
This summary of the social assessment for the Nicaragua Rural Municipalities Project is 
based on background documents produced by Marcia Leite Arieira (consultant, poverty), Mary 
Lisbeth González (consultant, indigenous people), Marvin Ortega (consultant, rapid rural 
appraisal) and Maria Correia (gender specialist, LASLG). Social Assessment Coordinator for the 
project is Valeria Junho Pena, Social Scientist in LATEN. Luis Constantino, Senior Natural 
Resources Economist in LASLG, is Task Manager for the project. Michael Baxter is Manager of 
LASLG, and William Partridge is Division Chief of LATEN. At the time the social assessment 
was conducted the project was being managed by LA2NR, and Mr. Constantino, Mr. Baxter, and 
Ms. Correia were working in that division. LA2NR was eliminated as part of a reorganization, 
and the project is now managed by LASLG. 
Page  7
vii 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
ABC 
Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor 
CBO Community-based 
organization 
EA Environmental 
assessment 
FAO 
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations 
FIAHS 
Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development 
GEF 
Global Environment Facility 
IDA 
International Development Association 
INIFOM 
Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development 
LAC 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office of the World Bank 
LA2NR 
Natural Resources Management & Rural Poverty Division of the World Bank’s 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, Country Department II 
LASLG 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region Sector Leadership Group 
LATEN 
Environment Unit of the World Bank’s Latin America and the Caribbean 
Region Technical Department 
LSMS 
Living Standard Measurement Survey 
NGO Nongovernmental 
organization 
RRA 
Rapid rural appraisal 
SA Social 
assessment 
UCAIS 
Union de las Cooperativas Indígenas de Sutiaba 
UNDP 
United Nations Development Programme 
UNFPA 
United Nations Fund for Population Activities 
UNICEF 
United Nations Children’s Fund 
Page  8
viii 
Sutiabas celebrating  inauguration of the Fondo Rotatoria de Crédito Xuchiatl, a local rotating loan fund for productive activities.
Page  9
 
Social Assessment for the Nicaragua Rural Municipalities Project 
Poverty, Gender, and Indigenous Issues in the Integration of  
Environment and Rural Reconstruction Assistance
 
Valeria Junho Pena, Marvin Ortega,  
Marcia Arieira, and Maria Correia 
BACKGROUND 
According to the 1994 International Development 
Association (IDA) Poverty Profile more than half of the 
Nicaraguan population falls below the poverty line, and 
about one-fifth lives below the extreme poverty line, without 
even the recognized minimum caloric intake. Poverty is far 
more prevalent in Nicaragua’s rural areas: with only 41 
percent of the population rural areas account for 63 percent 
of all poor. The objective of the Rural Municipalities Project 
is to improve the management of natural resources to 
alleviate rural poverty by (a) improving the capacity of 
national and local institutions to make and enforce sectoral 
policies, (b) increasing the quality of public investment in a 
more sustainable use of natural resources that is oriented 
toward poverty reduction, and (c) enhancing prevailing 
conservation efforts. During its first year of implementation 
the project will focus on the western departments of Leon 
and Chinandega. 
To prepare the project, the Nicaraguan government used 
several consultation and participatory mechanisms, 
including a series of workshops with nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs), community representatives, and 
local organizations and leaders. These stakeholders, with 
Page  10
 
10 
their on-the-ground presence and firsthand knowledge, 
made important contribu
tions to the project’s preparation 
from the very beginning. Because the project cuts across 
different natural resources and sectors, stakeholder 
participation was integrated into several project preparation 
instruments, including the environmental assessment (EA), 
the biodiversity strategy, and the social assessment (SA). 
The SA (see Box 1) was carried out  
between May and September 1995 by the World Bank’s 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with 
support from the Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human 
and Social Development (FIAHS).
1
In accordance with the 
project’s implementation schedule, the SA initially focused 
on the western region. The next step is to take the SA to the 
Atlantic region, and to include an Indigenous Development 
Plan for groups in that area. This paper concentrates on the 
contribution of the SA to project design. 
1. 
The LAC units that conducted the SA were the Environment Unit of the Technical Department 
(LATEN), and the Natural Resources Management & Rural Poverty Division of Country 
Department II (LA2NR). LA2NR was eliminated in a recent reorganization, and the project is 
now being managed by the LAC Region Sector Leadership Group (LASLG). 
Page  11
 
11 
The main objectives of the SA were to:  
·
Identify key stakeholders 
·
Identify the rural poor and assess their living conditions 
·
Understand the views of the poor on the causes of poverty and how it can be overcome 
·
Understand existing farming systems and their constraints 
·
Evaluate the main needs of the poor, and obstacles to income generation 
·
Evaluate linkages between poverty and environmental degradation 
·
Assess the degree to which the rural poor are organized into NGOs and/or 
community-based organizations (CBOs) 
·
Assess the strength of local organizations and the kind of services the rural poor 
obtain from them 
·
Evaluate the stakeholders’ perceptions of local governments 
Box 1.  Data Sources and Results of the Social Assessment 
The SA drew from the Nicaragua Poverty Assessment, the data set of the 1993 Living 
Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS), and two rapid rural appraisals (RRAs) in León and 
Chinandega. The first RRA looked at the rural poor and involved interviews with 299 
individuals, while the second RRA focused on the Sutiaba indigenous people and 
interviewed 99 individuals. The LSMS provided information on main socioeconomic 
characteristics of the region’s population and households, as well as on basic infrastructure. 
The RRAs provided information on:  
·
Local traditions, culture, and socioeconomic organization
 
·
Structure of the local community, existing leadership, and the extent of their 
influence
 
·
Local systems governing access to and control of natural resources, including land 
tenure systems and rights to water, forest, and pasture resources
 
·
Gender roles
 
·
Environmental and development problems
 
·
Organization of labor and the production process
 
·
Community perceptions about local governments
 
·
The views of the poor on the causes of poverty and on the possibility of 
overcoming it.
 
The main objectives of the RRA for the Sutiaba indigenous people were to (a) provide a 
historic overview and an analysis of the socioeconomic conditions of the Sutiabas, 
including an analysis of the existing types of community organization and of land 
ownership from social, economic, cultural, and legal perspectives, and (b) assess the 
potential of the Sutiaba community to engage and effectively participate in the project.
 
Page  12
 
12 
·
Evaluate key gender issues and how the project should address them 
·
Make recommendations on how to eliminate/mitigate risks, stabilize migration, and 
strengthen the capacity of community organizations to better deliver project services. 
As part of the SA, the Sutiaba indigenous group was also 
analyzed. The Sutiabas today constitute an ethnically 
diverse population coming from different areas of León and 
other parts of the country. The majority of local residents 
are of ethnic Sutiaba ancestry, but it is common for people 
living in the Sutiaba area, regardless of their ancestry, to be 
identified and to identify themselves as indigenous 
Sutiabas and to share Sutiaba cultural traditions and claims 
to communal property. The Sutiaba population of about 
36,000 constitutes 17 percent of the total population in the 
Department of León.
2
The majority—approximately 23,000—
live in urban areas, either in the historical site of the 
Sutiaba pueblo on the western side of the city of León or in 
twenty-four small urban settlements located to the north, 
south, and west of the Sutiaba pueblo. These settlements 
were created in the mid–1980s when the government moved 
small farmers from different parts of the country as part of a 
strategy to counter the military aggression coming from 
Honduran territory. About 15 percent of the urban 
population (approximately 3,500 residents) live in the 
settlements, with the remainder living in the historical 
Sutiaba pueblo. The rural area is composed of nine 
comarcas,
 
with subdivisions in which thousands of 
nonindigenous residents live. 
SOCIOECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THE PROJECT AREA 
Project Stakeholders 
2. 
Census Population Projections, Ministry of Health, 1995.  
Page  13
 
13 
The primary stakeholders of the project are:  
·
Small farmers and other rural poor
¾
both men and women 
·
Other farmers 
·
Children and youth 
·
Community-based organizations, particularly 
comites comarcales
 
·
The Sutiaba indigenous group 
·
NGOs 
·
Municipal governments 
·
Central government agencies 
General Economic and Demographic Features 
The agricultural land in the project area used to be the most 
fertile of the country
—Leon and Chinandega were 
Nicaragua’s major producers of corn, beans, and fruit. 
However, in the 1950s there was a shift toward export 
production of cotton, sugar cane, and  
bananas. Though promoting a passing economic boom, in 
the long run this destroyed the 
Page  14
 
14 
land’s fertility. Since then, political strife, inflation, 
environmental degradation, and decreasing export crop 
prices and production have caused a decline in living 
standards. The western region has a large share of the 
national population (17.3 percent, surpassed only by 
Managua with 27 percent), and a corresponding share of 
Nicaragua’s poor and extreme poor, 16.4 percent and 17 
percent respectively. Within the region, about half of all 
households, and about seven–tenths of all rural 
households, fall below the poverty line (see Figure 1).  
The Department of León has ten municipalities and a 
population of about 423,000 whose livelihood is mainly 
derived from agriculture and livestock. The Department of 
Chinandega consists of thirteen municipalities and has a 
population of about 373,000, which relies primarily on 
agriculture. In both departments, about half of the 
population lives in rural areas.  
In all age groups after age 14 there is a greater proportion 
of women than men. Although more than 90 percent of 
conjugal households are headed by men, in the 30 percent 
Figure 1.  Chinandega and Leon: 
Urban and Rural Poverty Rates
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Total
Urban
Rural
Location of Household
P
e
r
c
e
n
t
Poor
Nonpoor
Source
:
1993 Living Standard Measurement Survey
Page  15
 
15 
of households that are headed by a single person more 
than four-fifths are headed by women. This, combined with 
women’s differing economic opportunities in rural and 
urban areas, has a telling effect on poverty rates in single-
headed versus conjugal households (see Table 1). Most 
notably, in urban areas where women have many productive 
opportunities in the informal market, the rate of extreme 
poverty for single-headed households is much lower than 
for conjugal households, and the total rate of poverty is 
about the same. However in rural areas, where women 
heads of household generally own very small properties 
compared to men, and there are fewer informal economic 
opportunities, single-headed households have a 
significantly higher rate of extreme poverty than conjugal 
households. This suggests that female heads of household 
are at least as economically productive and enterprising as 
males, except where they lack comparable resources or 
opportunities. 
7DEOH\03fi\11\03 3RYHUW\\03UDWHV\03IRU\03FRQMXJDO\03DQG\03VLQJOH\10KHDGHG\03KRXVHKROGV\03LQ\03&KLQDQGHJD\03
DQG\03/HRQ\03
(percent)
\03
Urban households 
 
Rural households 
Poverty Category 
Conjugal 
Single-headed
Conjugal Single-headed
Extremely poor 
9.9 
1.3 
32.2 41.6 
Poor 19.2 
29.8 
37.6 33.7 
Nonpoor 70.9 
68.9 
30.1 24.7 
 Total 
100.0 
100.0 
100.0 100.0 
Source
:
Consultant report based on 1993 Living Standard Measurement Survey
 
As is common in poor regions, the population in western 
Nicaragua is young, slightly younger than in Nicaragua as a 
whole. In this area, 45 percent of the population is age 
fourteen or younger. About one–fifth of the people are less 
than seven years old. Because labor is the most important 
asset for the poor, households become poorer as the 
number of adults of working age decreases in relation to 
the number of old and young people. The dependency ratio 
Page  16
 
16 
in western Nicaragua
—the number of people less than 12 
years old or more than 60 years old divided by all other 
household members—is 0.84, and in the rural areas the 
ratio is 0.98. Households not only are crowded, but they are 
more crowded in rural areas where poverty is greater. The 
average household size in the entire region is 5.4 persons, 
but in urban areas it is only 5.2, while in rural areas it is 5.7 
persons. In sum, households are crowded with dependents, 
frequently children, who are being supported by 
impoverished adults. The result is a vicious cycle of 
poverty in which, as expressed by a doctor interviewed in 
Malpasillo during the RRA, 
“
the children don’t come to 
schools because their parents don’t have the means to feed 
or dress them.”
 
Land Tenure 
Four types of farmers were identified in the RRA. The first 
group, accounting for 58 percent of farmers, have holdings 
of less than five manzanas. Approximately one
–third of 
these are households headed by a single female. These 
small properties are more frequently found in the 
municipalities of El Jacaral, Santa Rosa, Achuapa, 
Larreynaga, and Quezalaguaque in the Department of León, 
and in the municipalities of Morazon, Cinco Pinos, San 
Francisco, Santo Tomas, San Pedro, and Posoltega in the 
Department of Chinandega. Farmers tend to produce for 
their own consumption and survival, and sell any surpluses 
they may have at local markets. However, productivity is 
constrained by property size, absence of credit, and lack of 
modern technology. These farmers have few or no trees 
close to the house and typically do not cultivate vegetable 
gardens. Many farmers received land through the 
Sandinista agrarian reform and lack formal title, though the 
Page  17
 
17 
current government is making efforts to provide secure 
property titles.
3
The second group, comprising some 29 percent of farmers, 
have 5-20 manzanas and mostly cultivate corn, beans, and 
sesame 
(ajonjoli).
 They usually own a cow to produce milk 
for household consumption. Women play a central role in 
the survival strategies of this group, selling domestic 
produce and serving as the primary family contact with 
public services. 
A
third group, about 8 percent, have larger properties and 
produce for the external market, usually in association with 
livestock production. They are found in the municipalities 
of El Viejo, Larreynaga, El Sauce, La Paz Central, Nagorote, 
León, Chinandega, Somotilla, and Villanueve. Although 
opportunities are limited, smaller farmers are a source of 
labor for these large farms. 
Finally, a fourth group is composed of the 7 percent of 
farmers who are organized into cooperatives created during 
the last decade, and who cultivate common land. Usually 
they combine work in the common fields with work on their 
own land. Although women participate in cooperatives as 
family laborers or as family members, they often are not 
formally recognized as cooperative members. 
RURAL POVERTY 
Living Conditions of the Poor 
The SA participants and the LSMS respondents in rural 
areas of the western region were distributed among thirty-
3. 
The government is receiving support for land titling through the International Development 
Association’s Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project. 
Page  18
 
18 
one rural communities. The conditions of the thirty-one 
communities are as follows: 
·
Two have post offices 
·
Eight have paved roads leading to their communities 
·
Thirteen do not have access to motorized transportation 
·
Eight have a doctor and six have a nurse; thirteen have no doctor, nurse, or midwife 
·
Four have a pharmacy 
·
Five do not have primary schools 
·
None of the communities have a daily market 
All community respondents to the LSMS agreed that living 
conditions had not improved during the five years previous 
to 1993. Members of twenty-six of the communities believed 
that conditions had worsened, while in the other five 
communities people believed they had stayed the same. 
Inflation, lack of employment opportunities, and high costs 
of living are the reasons given for this situation. In Puerto 
Morazan it was reported during the RRA that 
“we are poorer 
now than before because there are no sources of 
employment.”
 Very often the pessimism is expressed as a 
kind of religious fatalism. A respondent in Chinandega, for 
exam
ple, said that “
there are many people saying that this 
is the will of God.”
 
Access to water and sanitation in the project area is 
inadequate, particularly among the rural poor. Less than 
half of all households in the western region have piped, in-
house  
water, of which 72 percent are nonpoor and 7 percent are 
extremely poor. Urban residents have greater access to 
piped water but differences between poor and nonpoor are 
greater in these urban zones. Seventy percent of urban 
households have piped water, of which almost four
–fifths 
are nonpoor and 3 percent are poor. The inequality between 
groups is less dramatic in rural areas because so few have 
access to water: 70 percent of the extreme poor,  
Page  19
 
19 
63 percent of the poor, and 68 percent of the nonpoor do 
not have in-house piped water in rural zones. 
Access to sanitation services is even scarcer. Only about 
20 percent of all households in the western region are 
connected to public sewer systems, most of them nonpoor 
households. The extreme poor simply do not have access 
to sanitation services. Even septic tanks benefit only 7 
percent of households. In rural areas of the western region, 
99 percent of households have no access to public sewer 
systems, septic tanks, or cesspools. All households with 
access to any of these types of sanitation services are 
nonpoor. 
Rural People’s Perceptions of the Causes of Poverty 
According to the local rural population, three major factors 
cause poverty: lack of employment, diminishing 
productivity, and limited markets. Participants cited 
stagnant agricultural and livestock activities as the main 
reasons for limited employment and income. For those who 
own the land, productivity has diminished and there is no 
credit available. Among landowners interviewed during the 
RRA, 83 percent had not received credit or financial 
assistance during the year prior to the interview. Lack of 
external and internal markets emerged as another primary 
reasons for poverty. As explained by a small farmer in El 
Viejo, 
“The peasants do not have seeds, do not have 
minimal agricultural inputs, there is no credit, there is no 
one to whom to sell, someone who buys instead of robbing 
us.”
 
Data from the LSMS confirm the people’s evaluation of their 
own poverty. Altogether, 56 percent of respondents 
reported not working in the seven days prior to the date of 
the interview, and 51 percent reported not having looked for 
Page  20
 
20 
a
job, which can be interpreted as an indicator of 
hopelessness. Once again, differences between urban and 
rural areas are striking. Of those who had worked, 60 
percent were urban-based and 40 percent were from rural 
areas. During the year prior to the LSMS, 50 percent 
reported not having worked and of those who had worked, 
81 percent were urban residents. Among rural inhabitants 
who consider themselves employed, 41 percent are self-
employed. 
Irrational natural resources management is not cited in the 
RRA as a cause of poverty and low agricultural productivity. 
Although there is a broad recognition that this is a 
constraint, environmental degradation was overwhelmingly 
identified as a consequence of poverty as opposed to a 
cause (Box 2). 
Male temporary migration is now a common feature of the 
region. Migration is directed towards Costa Rica more often 
than to other rural areas of Nicaragua. According to a priest 
in El Jicaral, “
Because they do not have anything to work 
with, no seeds, many go to Costa Rica, lately 2,500 have 
gone. Many also look for work in León, Chinandega, and 
Matagalpa because in El Jacaral there are no jobs, the 
Box 2. Poverty and Environmental Degradation: Views of the People 
“When the only alternative is hunger, there is no other way except to eat the chicken 
with the golden eggs.” —
Rural worker in León.
 
“We know we are destroying the environment, but since we are so poor, there is no 
other way, except to go on destroying it.” —
Small farmer in El Viejo, Chinandega
.
“Because we are dying of hunger, we set fires on the mountains to help us to find small 
animals.” —
President of the Livestock Producers Association of Villanueva, 
Chinandega
.
“They are very poor: they are always looking either for firewood or for small animals.” 
—
Member of the Municipal Council, Te
lica, León
.
“They cut trees to sell the logs. Because they need money. To sow the land, one has to 
cut trees.” —
Small farmer, Telica
.
Source
:
RRA  
Page  21
 
21 
banana production does not provide them employment 
anymore, and the quality of the land is now very bad
.” Male 
out-migration puts strong pressure on women, who are left 
to care for households on their own under extremely 
difficult conditions. Migration, which began as a coping 
strategy for the poor, often results in the breakdown of the 
family and neighborhood patterns of solidarity. 
Rural Organizations 
In the western region people believe that solidarity is an 
important mechanism to overcome poverty. According to a 
participant in the RRA, 
“only people who belong to some 
organization are able to be conscious, the rest of the 
population, where there are no organizations, is 
indifferent.”
 About 40 percent of RRA participants belong to 
at least one organization. Of those who are organized, 47 
percent belong to a producer organization such as a 
cooperative; 32 percent to a religious organization; 13 
percent to a community organization; 11 percent to a 
development project; 5 percent to a political party; and 9 
percent to a union. The organizational system which 
prevails is very intricate, having as key actors foreign 
governments and donors, local and international NGOs, 
and local communities. This system probably provides the 
most important safety net for the rural poor as indicated by 
the following examples:  
·
“There is a commission for environmental protection in Villanueva and Somotillo, 
which includes the participation of Casa de la Mujer, the
 
Asociación de Ganaderos, 
the Polos de Desarrollo, and the police” (RRA). 
·
The Fondo para Chinandega Norte, which is funded by the Swiss, was established 
with support from the Secretaria de la Mujer de Chinandega and comprises more 
than 1,000 women who, together with some NGOs, implement several development 
projects. 
·
In the Chinandega municipalities of Somotillo, Santo Tomas, Cinco Pinos, San 
Pedro, San Francisco, and Villanueva, the Comisión de Desarrollo Comarcal was 
formed. It funds about ten projects with financial help from the Swiss government.  
Page  22
 
22 
According to the RRA, the most frequent organizational 
structures found in the area are the following: 
·
Comites
 
comunales 
or
comites comarcales
 operate at the municipal level and are 
usually initiated by the communities themselves. Members, who are elected by the 
community, usually consist of the midwife, the person in charge of health services 
(brigadista de la salud)
,
the teacher, a representative of the municipality, and the 
priest. During the last decade, the comites served as a vehicle for demanding land. In 
León, the comites are the strongest and most organized voice of local communities. 
·
Cooperatives
 were organized during the last decade with the objective of pooling 
resources such as land and labor. Today about 61 cooperatives are active in the area, 
with 1,116 members working 33,507 manzanas of land.  
·
Women’s groups
,
the most important of which are the 
Casas de Mujer
,
are spread 
across some municipalities and linked to Nicaragua’s Organización Nacional de 
Mujeres. The focus of the Casas de Mujer is on professional training. They seldom 
work on rural activities. 
·
NGOs,
 are present in the entire region, particularly in León, Chinandega, Somotillo, 
El Sauce, and El Viejo. 
·
Project Organizations
 such as (a) Apoyo a la Actividad Forestal Campesina de León, 
funded by Finland; (b) Proyecto de Conservación y Manejo de Recursos Naturales, 
funded by Holland and FAO; (c) Proyecto de Cultivos de Camarones en Estanques, 
Puerto Morazon, funded by Christian Initiative of Munster (Germany); and (d) 
Programa de Apoyo a la Conformación de una Estrategia de Desarrollo Alternativo 
para el Campesino Pobre, funded by Austria. 
Rural People’s Poverty Alleviation Priorities 
Men and women identified similar priorities for alleviating 
poverty, although men were relatively more likely than 
women to choose agricultural support or credit, job 
creation, training, and infrastructure, while women 
expressed slightly more concern than men for water, health, 
and education. Overall, support to agricultural subsistence 
activities was overwhelmingly considered the highest 
priority among those interviewed by the RRA, followed by 
access to clean water and health services (see Table 2). 
Page  23
 
23 
Rural People’s Perceptions of Local Governments 
The RRA participants’ perceptions of local governments are 
mixed. Seventy-five percent knew who was the mayor, 44 
percent knew the council members, but only 27 percent felt 
that local governments consulted the population, and many 
complained about authorities. A common complaint was that 
although communities had been invited to municipal 
meetings and workshops, these events lacked continuity 
and only a few people participated. Others noted that not all 
communities participate in workshops. Those who said that 
the municipal administration does not consult the 
population cited lack of community organization, politics, 
and the mayor’s incapacity as the reasons. 
Participants also acknowledge the limitations of local 
governments to respond to local problems. Some 
participants recognized that the local administration tries to 
answer their needs: “they gave land for twenty years, for 
reforestation on a lifelong basis, as a response to 
community requests, therefore they listen to peasants and 
to the community” (male community member, Chinandega). 
Table 2. Rural People’s Priorities for Poverty Alleviation 
First priority 
Percent 
Support to agricultural production 
38.1 
Water 15.3 
Health 11.7 
Job creation 
6.3 
Electricity 6.0 
Education 4.7 
Support to livestock production 
4.0 
Environment 1.7 
Roads 1.3 
Sewerage 1.3 
Training 1.0 
Other 8.0 
 Total
 
100.0 
Source
:
RRA
 
Page  24
 
24 
Others thought that the mayor did not make an effort to 
meet commu
nity demands: “he listens to them either 
through their representatives or he sees them in his office, 
but he does not solve the problems” (female community 
member, León). Activities carried out by the municipality 
create a certain awareness of local government—15 percent 
of respondents said that the mayor had helped them with 
land problems and about 20 percent had received help for 
seeds; 39 percent recognized municipal support for 
education, 37 percent for health, and 36 percent for road 
maintenance. 
Participants provided ideas on project implementation 
mechanisms at the local level. When asked about the best 
form of organization for articulating community demands, 
43 
Page  25
 
25 
percent preferred a
 
Comité Comarcal, 17 percent wanted a 
small committee, 11 percent preferred small groups of 
interested people, 11 percent preferred individual 
interaction with municipal government, and 5 percent 
recommended cooperatives. Concerning who should be 
involved in key decisions regarding subproject approval, 53 
percent indicated the mayor, 60 percent recommended 
council members, 87 percent proposed a local notable 
(priest, teacher, nurse, etc.) and 72 percent suggested an 
NGO. An overwhelmingly number of participants, (92 
percent) said that a community representative should 
participate in such decisions. 
GENDER ISSUES 
Gender Roles and Priorities 
Page  26
 
26 
While men’s roles in the economy are well acknowledged, 
women also play an important role in the survival strategies 
of the poor both as partners in congually headed 
households and as the heads of single-headed households. 
Studies in Nicaragua indicate that while rural men control 
productive resources and land, women in poor households 
contribute significantly to household income. Households 
headed by single females depend exclusively on the 
woman’s income. In conjugal households women often are 
responsible for supporting the family during the agricultural 
off-season and periods of scarcity. Particularly when farm 
and nonfarm opportunities for men are restricted, women 
will resort to selling garden produce and small livestock, 
other petty trading, and domestic labor to sustain the 
family. Women’s gardens are also a major source of family 
nutrients year-round and therefore represent a key element 
of the rural poor’s survival strategies. 
While support to agricultural production was chosen by 
both men and women as the highest priority for addressing 
poverty, their agricultural technology, extension, and 
training needs differ. Labor in agriculture and livestock 
production is divided along gender lines in Nicaragua, with 
basic grains and livestock primarily being men’s work, 
while women are the principal producers of horticulture 
products, fruits, and small livestock, with a secondary role 
in producing basic grains. Women also dominate marketing 
of farm products. 
Men and women use natural resources for different 
purposes and this, in turn, affects their priorities and 
participation levels in environmental projects. The principal 
causes of deforestation in the project area are felling for 
commercial purposes, the expansion of agricultural lands, 
and hunting. These typically are male activities and 
Page  27
 
27 
concerns. Women, on the other hand, tend to be more 
concerned with domestic fuelwood. Similarly, while both 
men and women identified water as a primary concern, 
women were more interested in domestic consumption 
while men showed greater interest in water for irrigation 
and production. These differing gender-based interests in 
natural resources are reflected in higher participation rates 
by women in environmental projects with intrinsic social 
goals. However, men still dominate the decisionmaking 
process for these projects. 
Gender Differences in Education 
Education plays a central role in an individual’s ability to 
escape poverty, therefore the fact that women receive far 
less formal education than men puts households headed by 
single females in a more vulnerable position. The gender 
inequality pattern in education is pervasive in the western 
region. Women are relatively more likely than men to only 
have a primary education or less, and the higher the 
education level the greater the advantage for males (Figure 
2). This inequality is greater in rural than in urban areas. 
Page  28
 
28 
Gender and Participation in Rural Organizations 
Note
:
Inappropriate or no response was given by 29 percent of male, and 40 percent of female respondents
Source
:
1993 Living Standard Measurement Survey
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
No formal
Primary
Secondary
Mid-lvl. tech.
University
Education level completed
P
e
r
c
e
n
t
o
f
g
e
n
d
e
r
g
r
o
u
p
Male 
Female
Figure 2. Education Level of Heads of Household, by Gender
Page  29
 
29 
The SA indicates that men and women are involved in 
different forms of organization, with women participating to 
the greatest extent in service-oriented groups (religious and 
community) and men predominating in producer 
organizations (Unión Nacional de Agricultores y 
Ganaderos, and other cooperatives and unions). For 
example, men constitute 88 percent of members of 
agriculture and livestock cooperatives in the region. Men 
also predominate in municipal government in the region, 
accounting for 83 percent of mayors and 89 percent of the 
consejales. A breakdown of the gender composition of local 
government committees (comarcales) is not available, but it 
is expected that women’s and men’s involvement is more 
balanced in these committees since they typically consist 
of the local midwife, teacher, health worker, and 
representatives of producer groups and the church. 
A
corollary of gender differences in organizations is that 
women will have less access to information and resources 
than men because producer groups tend to be better 
organized and have greater political clout. The SA supports 
this assertion. It showed that overall men’s participation in 
organizations was greater than women’s and that 
membership in organizations was associated with land 
tenure security and other resources. Women surveyed also 
had less knowledge of their municipal leaders than men. 
THE SUTIABAS 
Who Are the Sutiabas? 
The Sutiabas are one of thirteen Nicaraguan indigenous 
groups that claim a “native background.” In the words of a 
Sutiaba leader, “native background is the right that all of us, 
native people, have, to respect our own culture and 
Page  30
 
30 
historical traditions, forms of social organization and the 
ownership of our com
munal land.” The basis for Sutiaba 
ethnic identity is rooted in kinship relationships, which 
provide social and ethnic cohesion. The Sutiaba kinship 
system, however, has been eroded as a result of the 
changes that the country has experienced through its 
history. Kinship is no longer restricted to the children of 
Sutiaba fathers and mothers, but rather is based on 
individuals’ identification with Sutiaba values and customs. 
The migration of ladinos to the Sutiaba region, attracted 
since colonial times by the possibility of farming communal 
lands, allowed for a reinterpretation of kinship networks to 
include the children of the ethnic mix which resulted from 
migration. Migration also brought about acculturation, loss 
of control over communal land, and periods of violence 
resulting from discrimination and the predominance of 
ladinos. 
Sutiaba History 
Page  31
 
31 
Since Spanish colonization, Sutiaba history has been 
characterized by permanent tensions over land rights and 
efforts by León landowners to take increasingly larger tracts 
of traditional indigenous territory. Strategies to squeeze the 
Sutiabas’ traditional land rights included invading their lands, 
dissolving Sutiaba autonomous forms of economic and 
social organization through national government legislation, 
and promoting “ladinización” of indigenous communities. 
Since the mid-eighteenth century the Sutiabas have 
constituted an independent political-administrative division 
of the city of León. In 1850, with the introduction of coffee 
plantations, the need for labor led the government to issue 
legislation on vagrancy and mandatory labor which justified 
the forceful and massive recruitment of indigenous people 
for farm labor. 
The introduction of cotton crops in the 1950s exacerbated 
tensions and violence. Some conflicts became reference 
points in the Sutiabas’ political conscience which in turn 
strengthened their ethnic identity. On the other hand, 
internal discord on the most effective way to handle such 
disputes has weakened the community to some extent. In 
the 1960s and 1970s some leaders sought to strengthen ties 
with the Somoza governments as a way of advancing their 
land property cause. In the 1970s, the Sandinistas developed 
relationships with the Sutiabas, and particularly youth 
groups trying to advance the cause of communal land. When 
the Sandinistas came to power, Sandinista indigenous 
leaders assumed political control of the Sutiaba community. 
During this period the Sutiaba recovered some lands from 
private landowners and also benefited from government 
efforts to eliminate illiteracy and improve education and 
health conditions. Like previous governments, however, the 
Sandinistas were unable to understand the Sutiabas ethnic 
claims and their historic legacy. Similar to previous 
Page  32
 
32 
governments, new political organizations also diluted the 
ethnic specificity of the Sutiabas. 
Sutiaba Demographics 
The Sutiaba population of about 36,000 constitutes 17 
percent of the total population in the Department of León.
4
The majority

approximately 23,000

live in urban areas, 
and the remaining 12,000 are spread over nine rural 
comarcas which are also populated by non-Sutiaba 
residents. While the exact size of Sutiaba territory 
recognized by the Spanish monarchy in colonial times is 
unclear, and even less is known of the extent of their 
territory in pre-Columbian times, the Sutiabas today 
probably occupy only a fraction of their ancestral lands. 
Urban Sutiaba live in the traditional historical site of the 
Sutiaba
 pueblo
,
on the western side of the city of León, and 
in twenty-four small urban settlements to the north, south, 
and west of the Sutiaba pueblo. The government created 
4. 
Census Population Projections, Ministry of 
Health
,
1995. 
Like most indigenous cultures, the Sutiaba have been strongly influenced by the colonizers’ religion and culture. 
Above, Sutiaba youths dance in the Traditional Festival of the Bulls in honor of San Jer
onimo. 
 
Page  33
 
33 
these settlements in the mid-1980s as part of its overall 
strategy to counter military aggression originating in 
neighboring Honduras. The municipal administration of 
León has been using the areas around the Sutiaba 
community to establish settlements and absorb the city’s 
natural urban growth. Such settlements

although created 
without consulting the Sutiabas

are not a source of 
conflict because the Sutiaba community has accepted the 
new settlers. It is estimated that around 15 percent of the 
urban Sutiaba population lives in the settlements, and 
about 85 percent lives in the historical Sutiaba site. 
Although the majority of residents have local Sutiaba 
ancestry, it is common for all dwellers in Sutiaba territory to 
identify themselves as indigenous Sutiabas, to share 
Sutiaba cultural traditions, and to make claims to 
communal land. Ninety-eight percent of the RRA 
participants identified themselves as indigenous Sutiaba, 
although only 72 percent have a Sutiaba parent. Men 
identified themselves as indigenous Sutiabas at the same 
rate as women, although more women (80 percent) than 
men (65 percent) had at least one Sutiaba parent. 
Sutiaba Land Claims 
Page  34
 
34 
Currently, indigenous lands extend from the northwest to 
the southeast of the city of León, in the plains between the 
Marribios Mountains and the Pacific coast. The land is 
mostly flat except south of the city where slopes are 
steeper and elevations reach almost 150 meters above sea 
level. Two rivers, the Telica and the Chiquito, cut the region. 
The Chiquito River has been contaminated by domestic and 
industrial waste. The two rivers contain about 40 percent of 
all river water in the department. Statistical data on Sutiaba 
land and land ownership is conflicting and disorganized, 
but it is clear that they have lost much of their original 
property or sold it to non-Sutiabas after title was 
transferred from the community to individuals (Box 3). 
Different versions of what constitutes Sutiaba property 
make it difficult to determine precisely which portion of the 
land belongs to the community, which portion belongs to 
peasants, and which portions were taken by landowners. 
The royal title in the hands of the indigenous community 
states that the land belonging to the Sutiabas is equal to 
sixty-three “caballerías” and twelve “atillos,” ancient 
Spanish measures the size of which is not known for sure 
(and undoubtedly less than the Sutiabas’ ancestral 
Box 3. Legislation Affecting Indigenous Property Rights 
Historical legislation developed between 1877 and 1952 gave landowners access to the 
traditional lands of the Sutiabas. These laws, though not in use today, were never abolished. 
The most common tool used by the government and legislators has been the distribution of 
indi
vidual land title to community members, disregarding the community’s claims to communal 
land property and resulting in non-Sutiaba landowners immediately purchasing the land from 
the individual indigenous “owners.”  
A
1902 law that incorporated the Sutiaba pueblo in the city of León determines that land that 
has been worked by indigenous people belongs to them, even if they are mere tenants of these 
lands, with the rent title being accepted as evidence of tenure. 
Long-term pressures from landowners to eliminate autonomous forms of Sutiaba organization 
and government resulted in a 1895 government decree stating that half of the indigenous lands 
could remain in indigenous hands and the other half could be sold to outsiders. This legislation, 
however, did not protect indigenous land claims in spite of additional legislation in the first half 
of the twentieth century. 
Page  35
 
35 
territory). 
According to members of the Directive Council of the 
Sutiabas (Junta Directiva) and some indigenous leaders, 
between 10,000 hectares and 15,000 hectares of the Sutiabas’ 
colonial-era land grant are now in the hands of large 
landowners who are not members of the community and 
with whom there is a permanent conflict, 7,000 hectares are 
still under direct control of the community, and 8,000 
hectares belong to small individual farmers or 
cooperatives. Other interpretations of “caballeria” and 
“atillos” give rise to smaller estimates of the Sutiabas’ land 
rights from colonial times. 
A
key to understanding the Sutiaba land situation is the way 
land titles have been distributed and are recognized. Within 
the 7,000 hectares under the direct control of the 
community, many small farmers were given supplementary 
titles to land as a way of breaking down communal land 
property by the Sutiabas. From the government’s point of 
the view this land was state property, while from the point 
of view of indigenous leaders it was and remains 
community property. Only 11 percent of small farmers 
recognize that the land they work is under the direct control 
of the indigenous community, that is, part of traditional 
communal lands. Less than 15 percent of rural Sutiabas are 
members of cooperatives, but these cooperatives own 
about 30 percent (8,000 hectares) of the traditional lands 
claimed by the Sutiabas. 
About 44 percent of the RRA participants neither own land 
nor work land for agricultural purposes, 45 percent work 
their own lands (89 percent have legal title), 6 percent work 
community-owned lands, and 4 percent work lands that 
belong to another person. In rural areas only 6 percent are 
landless or lack access to land for agricultural production, 
Page  36
 
36 
while in urban areas this is true for 80 percent of the 
population. However, more than half of rural farmers in the 
sample have only small plots of 5 hectares or less, whereas 
four of the six largest farms (larger than 20 hectares) are 
controlled by urban agriculturalists. 
The majority of Sutiabas live in extreme poverty, have few 
resources for market production, and are exposed to 
climatic hazards. The small plot size of most farms limits 
their commercial potential, and accentuates farmers’ 
vulnerability to poor harvests and market conditions—only 
6
percent of farmers have properties larger than 20 
manzanas. 
Employment and Income Among the Sutiaba 
Employment dynamics among the Sutiabas do not differ 
from the general trends of the other poor in the western 
region. Unemployment is high, and employment, when 
available, is restricted to low-paid jobs requiring little 
training or qualifications. In urban areas, about 44 percent 
of participants are unemployed and another 20 percent did 
not have a permanent job. 
Sutiaba women are restricted to professions such as 
commerce, maid services, teaching, and nursing. The 
majority of Sutiaba women who do not work define 
themselves as housewives rather than unemployed. 
According to one participant: “
I
haven’t had a job since 
1990; I don’t even look for a job anymore because I can’t 
find any
”
(Sutiaba housewife). In urban areas the 
economically active population for women is the same as 
that of men, but women have lower incomes relative to men 
(a little over 50 percent of the price of 
Page  37
 
37 
a
basic food basket for women as opposed to 70 percent for 
men). The mid-level technical/professional category for 
women in commerce is the only employment category that 
has above average income levels, although these incomes 
are only close to the price of the basic food basket. A 
significant proportion of women work as maids, which is 
one of the lowest paid jobs in the economy. In rural areas, 
the situation for women is even more difficult because they 
are not even recognized as farmers although most perform 
agricultural tasks alongside men. 
The majority of the rural-based economically active 
population works as small farmers or rural workers. The 
latter are mostly seasonally employed for about five to six 
months a year. All rural families grow small plots (usually 
less than one manzana) of basic crops such as beans and 
corn. This does not produce enough food to sustain the 
family, forcing members of the family to seek alternate 
survival strategies such as selling firewood and working as 
day laborers or in construction jobs in exchange for food. 
The Sutiabas are organized into eighteen cooperatives 
which sow about 3,600 manzanas of corn, beans, and sorgo 
annually. The cooperatives, however, do not generate 
permanent work year
–round for their members. Crops are 
grown using nontraditional technology, and generally 
occupy members six months every year, leaving them 
unemployed for the remaining six months. 
The Sutiabas and the Environment 
The Sutiabas have no experience managing forest areas 
nor has this concern been part of their tradition in light of 
the more pressing need for survival. Sutiaba territory lacks 
important forest areas except for a few patches of tropical 
dry woodlands. Forest destruction is caused mostly by 
Page  38
 
38 
cutting for domestic and commercial firewood. Almost 82 
percent of RRA participants use firewood for cooking. 
Social Organization Among the Sutiabas 
Social capital among the Sutiabas is high

about 48 
percent of RRA participants are members of community 
organizations. Although gender differences are small, more 
men are organized than women. The largest organization is 
the Indigenous Community; it was the first organization 
mentioned by 55 percent of the RRA participants who said 
they belonged to an organization. The second most 
frequently cited type of organization are those related to 
development projects

17 percent of those belonging to 
organizations said that they were members of these types 
of groups. While urban respondents are only slightly more 
likely than rural Sutiabas to belong to an organization, there 
are notable differences in the type of organization to which 
they belong
–urban participation was substantially higher in 
the Indigenous Community and cooperatives, while 
participation in development projects and political parties 
was almost entirely from rural people. 
The principal political and administrative Sutiaba 
organizations are the 
Junta Directiva de la Comunidad
 
Indígena
,
the 
Consejo de Ancianos
,
the
 Consejos 
Comunales
,
and the 
Juntas de Cementerio
.
Characteristics 
of these organizations are as follows:  
The Junta Directiva is elected by popular vote for a two-
year term, although government regulations state that 
elections should be annual. As a result of the economic, 
social, and political changes that affected the ethnic 
composition of the Sutiaba communities, the Sutiabas 
require only kinship as a basis for membership in the 
community. Thus, voting rights are given to any individual 
Page  39
 
39 
who has been residing in the community for more than 
seven years whenever they accept and identify with the 
Sutiabas’ indigenous values, even in the absence of Sutiaba 
ancestry. From a political and administrative point of view, 
this is the indigenous organization with the largest 
mandate, although it does not constitute a pure form of 
autonomous local government. Both urban and rural 
Sutiabas are under the jurisdiction of the municipality of 
León. 
The Junta Directiva is not a traditional Sutiaba organization 
although it was created by the Sutiabas to deal with issues 
related to the indigenous community. Its origins relate to 
the Sutiabas process of incorporation in León. Most likely 
the organizational structure started as a mechanism 
promoted by government and local landowners to counter 
indigenous land disputes which had been led by traditional 
indigenous organizations like the Consejo de Ancianos. 
Basic activities of the Junta Directiva are: mediating 
community relationships with the city administration and 
the central government; administering community land; 
coordinating activities with different indigenous 
organizations; and representing the Sutiabas in the 
Coordination of Nicaraguan Indigenous Communities. It 
also promotes activities in the area of social, economic, and 
cultural development. But the Junta Directiva’s main asset 
is the moral authority won during land disputes. The Junta 
is recognized by the Sutiabas as their moral and political 
authority even though this role has been weakened in 
recent years by political polarization. 
The Consejo de Ancianos was the highest authority in the 
community before Spanish colonization, and it remained so 
into the twentieth century, though weakened by colonial 
authorities and subsequent national governments. The 
Page  40
 
40 
council virtually disappeared in the first half of the 
twentieth century, but in the 1980s it was more or less 
restored. The Consejo is an autonomous moral authority 
with approximately thirty-five members who are elders in 
the community. Members must be born in Sutiaba territory, 
belong to old families of communal tradition, be recognized 
as an advocate of communal land property, have been a 
member of the Junta Directiva, and have an untarnished 
reputation. 
The Consejos Comunales are neighborhood organizations 
whose members are elected primarily to respond to social 
demands of residents. The Juntas de Cementerio are in 
charge of maintaining and managing five community 
cemeteries as well as observing religious traditions and 
Holy Week rituals. 
Traditional productive organizations no longer exist among 
the Sutiaba. The cooperatives, which are presently the most 
common model of productive organization in the 
community, emerged in 1979. With the participation of long-
standing members of the community, the cooperatives 
recovered about 8,000 hectares of communal lands in the 
1980s which had previously been controlled by large 
landowners. There are eighteen Sutiaba cooperatives with 
310 members, many of whom are urban based. Eleven of 
the cooperatives are part of the Union de las Cooperativas 
Indígenas de Sutiaba (UCAIS), which provides associate 
members with technical assistance, storage, marketing, and 
legal and bookkeeping advice. UCAIS has the best capacity 
for economic management in the community. 
In addition to the advice it provides to associate members, 
UCAIS operates a number of other programs including a 
program for female farmers; the Asociación de Ganaderos 
de Sutiaba, which is a small association of members who 
Page  41
 
41 
own lands outside the Sutiaba territorial limits; and the 
Fondo Rotatorio de Crédito Xuchiatl, which is a revolving 
loan fund for productive activities. This fund was created by 
the Junta Directiva de la Comunidad and the Nicaraguan 
Institute for Investigations and Popular Education. As of 
1995, it had provided financing to 122 families, 79 percent 
of which were headed by single females. A team of 
indigenous Sutiaba professionals manages the fund. 
The two most important organizations that work with 
women and youth among the Sutiabas are: 
·
The Fundación para el Desarrollo Integral de la Mujer Indígena “Xochitl Acatl” 
which receives support from European funds and UNICEF to work with women. 
Funds support informal credit for poultry production, vegetable gardens, cattle, and 
reforestation. To date forty-seven single, female heads of household have benefited 
from resources for productive activities. Funds also offer educational programs in 
health, family planning, prenatal and infant care, and sanitation. In cooperation with 
the Universidad Nacional Autónoma and cooperating physicians, the foundation 
supports clinical activities which have benefited an average of 290 patients a month 
in traditional medicine and 240 in nontraditional medicine. Other programs for 
women and youth at risk include education in sexuality, fertility, sexually transmitted 
diseases, solidarity, and equality. 
·
The Movimiento de Jóvenes Indígenas “Hringue Nidi Ruis” (Children of the Sun) 
offers programs in health, water, electricity, education, environment, culture, and 
sports. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and United Nations 
Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) have provided the group with funding for 
the Recreation and Attention Centers for Sutiaba Adolescents. 
Page  42
 
42 
The presence of nongovernmental organizations in Sutiaba 
territory is weak except for the ones mentioned above. The 
Centro de Investigación y Promoción Económico y Social, 
the Evangelical Committee for Development Aid, and CARE 
also support small sustainable projects in water, 
agriculture, and irrigation in a few districts. 
CONCLUSIONS 
The main conclusions of the social assessment are as 
follows: 
I. 
Rural areas of the western region show the poorest social indicators. In contrast 
with urban areas, poverty in rural zones is greater, opportunities are fewer, 
educational levels are worse, and there is less access to infrastructure services. 
Health and education facilities, sanitation, roads, and access to local markets are 
unsatisfactory in many areas. 
II. 
Rural households are more crowded and have a higher dependency ratio than in 
urban homes. The proportion of children in poverty is high in the entire region, and 
higher in rural than in urban areas. Children are an at-risk population group. 
III. 
In the project area, the main gender issues are: 
·
Single-headed households, which are usually female-headed, tend to be poorer 
than conjugal households. 
·
Both men and women play a role in the survival strategies of the poor but 
women have a particularly critical position because they are responsible for 
most single-headed households and often provide crucial support in conjugal 
families during periods of scarcity. 
Page  43
 
43 
Page  44
 
44 
·
The gender division of labor on the farm and in the household implies that 
technology, extension, and training needs differ for men and women. 
·
Men and women use natural resources differently and therefore also have 
different priorities in environmental activities. 
·
Educational levels among women tend to be lower than among men, which in 
turn affects women’s ability to participate in project activities. 
·
Men and women have different forms of organization, which affects their 
access to information and resources. 
IV. 
The rural poor, including the Sutiaba rural poor, are predominantly small 
farmers, often landless. Frequently, households live off properties of less than 5 
manzanas. Productivity is low and access to markets is difficult. 
V. 
Two interrelated factors cause poverty: first, the small size of property coupled 
with extremely low productivity due to inappropriate technologies and lack of 
financing; and second, the absence of off-farm employment opportunities for the 
poor. 
VI. 
According to the rural population, poverty results from lack of employment, 
low agricultural productivity, and limited access to markets. Based on their 
diagnosis of poverty, their highest priorities are: support to agricultural production, 
water supply for both agricultural needs and family consumption, and health 
services. The environment is not seen as a priority because is perceived as a result 
rather than a cause of poverty. 
VII. 
The sense of hopelessness that prevails among the poor is often offset by a 
cultural disposition toward social solidarity. The poor in the project area are well 
organized. They participate in community groups such as the comites comarcales, 
cooperatives, women’s associations, Sutiaba cooperatives, NGOs, and project 
groups. Foreign donors, however, largely mobilize and sustain these community 
organizations. 
VIII. 
The main problems of the Sutiabas are the absence of legal mechanisms to 
recognize land claims, and land disputes with large landowners. Although it may be 
seen as risky to fund projects in areas under contention, a vast portion of the Sutiaba 
land is under community control and this control cannot be legally challenged. This 
includes cooperative land legalized by the government. Indigenous leaders requested 
that the project prioritize women because their experience shows that investments to 
women produce greater benefits to the family. Agricultural projects are of lesser 
interest to urban-based Sutiaba because fewer of them own land. 
Page  45
 
45 
ACTION PLAN FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION 
Project implementation would take into account the 
recommendations of the social assessment and indigenous 
and gender studies in the following ways. 
Rural Poverty 
Municipal technical units, the Nicaraguan Institute for 
Municipal Development (INIFOM), and the project central 
unit would actively promote the project in eligible 
communities to make information available to the rural 
poor. Community project promoters would make use of 
local meetings, churches, and radio in this dissemination 
process. Considering the low formal education level, 
particularly among women, the project would emphasize 
visual materials such as videos. 
The project would promote and support several community 
organizations
—an Intercommunity Assembly, Municipal 
Project Selection Committee, and Community Supervisory 
Committee—to help the poor voice their demands and force 
local governments to respond. These committees would 
include members elected by the communities. 
The project would support several training programs for the 
communities themselves as well as for professionals 
(private, NGO, and government) that would provide services 
to the communities. The training would focus on the priority 
themes identified by the poor, including subsistence rural 
production, natural resource management, and community 
organization and management. The subproject categories 
include most priority investments identified by the rural 
population during the rapid rural appraisals. 
Annual Rural Appraisals would assess the results of project 
implementation, and particularly whether benefits are 
Page  46
 
46 
effectively reaching the poor. A midterm review would 
permit changes in the project to accommodate findings 
from rapid rural appraisals. 
Gender 
Gender Goals
.
The project would promote participation and 
benefits for both men and women by making gender 
inclusion an explicit goal of municipal development. Gender 
goals would also be reflected in the philosophy of the 
municipal development component of the project and 
included in staff orientation so that awareness of gender 
issues becomes a part of staff values. Members of the 
participatory structures involved in the project (municipal 
governments, municipal project selection committees, 
municipal technical units, intercommunity councils, 
intercommunity supervisory committees, community 
promoters, intermediary organizations, and community 
assemblies) would also receive orientation on gender 
issues. 
All personnel working on the project (including INIFOM 
personnel, other project staff, and municipal technicians) 
would be given explicit responsibility for involving both 
men and women in municipal development activities, and 
this would be included in the terms of reference defining 
staff’s responsibilities and objectives. The project would 
avoid establishing special segregated programs for women 
which tend to marginalize them and imply that women’s 
programs are secondary to mainstream project activities. 
To ensure that gender issues are adequately internalized in 
project implementation, the project would recruit a 
participation and gender advisor to work on INIFOM staff as 
part of the project team. The advisor will act as a catalyst 
and resource person and ensure that gender is adequately 
Page  47
 
47 
covered in promotion and information dissemination 
activities, participatory microplanning, and monitoring. The 
advisor will also monitor the effectiveness of the project in 
reaching both men and women. 
Training Programs.
 To enhance participation by both men 
and women, the project would train staff on how to detect 
gender-based social and economic differences and 
constraints to participation, and how to develop strategies for 
overcoming gender barriers in the project. 
Project Promotion
.
The project would ensure that 
promotional material and communications channels reflect 
gender differences and constraints. Specifically, materials 
would avoid gender stereotypes in visual displays and text 
and portray men and women as equal participants in the 
project. The project would design a promotional and 
communications strategy for men and women based on the 
following information in project areas: (a) specific local 
gathering spots for men and women; (b) frequently used or 
accessible forms of mass media for men and women; (c) 
time that men and women use media channels; and (d) 
traditional means of communication. It is expected that the 
project will establish a door-to-door promotional campaign 
to ensure that both men and women are invited to 
introductory meetings and microplanning sessions. If 
societal norms inhibi
t
women’s participation with men, the 
project will gather men and women separately and train 
them on gender issues to avoid possible conflicts. 
Participatory Planning and Subproject Implementation
.
The 
project would use a participatory planning methodology 
with a gender perspective to ensure that both men and 
women have access to municipal funds and are involved in 
determining community priorities and in planning and 
executing subprojects. The methodology will consider: 
Page  48
 
48 
gender-based social divisions in the community; time 
schedules of men and women; gender differences in 
geographical mobility; literacy, education, and training 
differences between men and women; and organizational 
capacity and legal status of men’s and women’s groups. 
The project will encourage women’s participation through 
their own organizations in situations where men dominate 
and have greater influence in community organizations, but 
will work towards mainstreaming women in community 
groups by training women in organization, leadership, and 
self-esteem, and training men on gender issues. The project 
will also schedule activities to coincide with time and 
geographical limitations faced by men and women (for 
example, before or after religious services on Sundays). 
Training and Capacity Building at the Community Level
.
The project will support training programs to compensate 
for illiteracy among community members which in turn 
impedes participation in the project (particularly on the part 
of women). Training and information dissemination will 
involve means other than written materials (such as oral 
communication) to avoid illiteracy obstacles. The project 
will recruit trainers and intermediary organizations based 
on their capacity and experience to work with illiterate 
people. Training materials supported by the project will 
include manuals, workbooks, and learning tools such as 
games, that use simple concepts, illustrations, colors, and 
cartoon figures. 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
.
The project establishes 
gender disaggregated indicators into the monitoring and 
evaluation process of the project to measure the different 
impact of the project on men and women and the effect of 
men’s and women’s participation on project outputs. 
Indicators that will be differentiated by gender include (a) 
Page  49
 
49 
members of participatory structures; (b) attendance at 
community assemblies; (c) participation in community and 
municipal planning; (d) number of people participating in 
environmental, natural resources, and productive 
subprojects; (e) number of direct and indirect beneficiaries 
of subprojects; (f) number of people adopting improved 
technologies; (g) number of people with increased income 
from project activities; and (h) participation levels in 
training and capacity building activities. 
Special Studies and Auditing Procedures
.
The project 
would incorporate gender into monitoring and evaluation 
indicators. It would also finance special studies to measure, 
by gender, the intra-household impact of project activities 
and specifically their effect on poverty reduction. 
Specifically, the audits would examine (a) gender 
opportunities and constraints to participation at the family, 
group, and community level, as well as project strategies
—
e.g., impact of information campaigns and communications 
channels, timing of introductory and participatory sessions, 
special training for men on gender issues, leadership 
training for women, etc.—to overcome these constraints 
and/or create opportunities (b) impact of INIFOM staff, 
municipal technicians, and technical consultants in 
promoting both male and female participation in project 
activities, and the effectiveness of staff training and 
incentives to achieve gender goals; and (c) the strengths 
and weaknesses of different approaches to integrating men 
and women into project activities. 
Sutiabas 
The project would contribute to resolution of land claims 
through two mechanisms: support for legal procedures 
awarding indigenous communal land titles, and 
strengthening of indigenous organizations to enhance their 
Page  50
 
50 
bargaining power in land disputes.
5
The issue of 
procedures for titling communal lands is being addressed 
as part of preparation for the Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor 
(ABC) component funded by the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF). Indigenous organizations would be 
strengthening through the training programs and specific 
capacity building subprojects that they may propose. 
Regarding participation and municipal investments, the 
Sutiabas and other indigenous communities would be 
treated differently. While for nonindigenous people a 
community is de
fined as a “comarca” which is a 
geographical unit, for indigenous people in the Pacific and 
Atlantic the community would be considered as the 
indigenous group independent of physical location. 
Traditional indigenous decisionmaking structures would be 
the mechanisms for defining priorities and supervising 
subproject implementation. 
 
5. 
The problem of lack of legal procedures affects all indigenous groups in Nicaragua, including 
those in the Atlantic who will be the key stakeholders in the ABC component. Nicaragua has an 
advanced legal framework for indigenous peoples, the main constraint is the absence of 
procedures for implementing this legal framework. 
Page  51
 
51 
 
