Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF NO. 029203
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Natural Resource Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated July 24, 1995
TF NO. 029203
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting 
as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Association, Japan 
has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to 
administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and 
projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the 
provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12) and (13), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and  9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International Development 
Association acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter 
Page  3
agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association referred to 
in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term 
"Association" shall also include the International Development 
Association acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in 
yen; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, 
the Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Consejo Nacional Agropecuario
"
means the Recipient's council for agricultural 
and cattle matters;
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(c)
"yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of seventy-one 
million yen (¥71,000,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in its Central Bank or a commercial bank satisfactory to the 
Administrator on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project through Consejo Nacional 
Agropecuario with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, economic and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and separate accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the 
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the proce-dures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the applicable provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish 
to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Administrator's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Telex:
  BCN NK 2460
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Roberto Mayorga Cortés
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
Page  7
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the Grant, the 
allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in Yen)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
45,000,000
100%
services
(2)
Goods and aerial 
16,000,000
100%
photography for the
purposes of Part B.1
of the Project
(3)
Operating Expenditures
5,000,000100%
(4)
Unallocated
 5,000,000
  TOTAL
71,000,000
2.
For purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating Expenditures" means the cost of 
utilities, office rent, office furniture and supplies, office and vehicle maintenance and vehicle 
operation, all related to the operation of the project unit referred to in Part E of the Technical 
Assistance.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawal from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures costing less than the equivalent of: (a) 
$15,000 in the case of goods and works; (b) $30,000 in the case of consulting firm's services; and 
(c) $15,000 in the case of individual consultants' services, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
Page  8
Part A
: Natural Resource Management
Evaluation of the Recipient's research, education and extension mechanisms and 
methodologies for natural resource management, including, inter alia, the identification of 
improvements thereof, the identification and preparation of the legal and institutional reforms 
needed and the preparation of an action plan for improvements and reforms, identifying the 
priorities and the costs thereof.
Part B
: Institutional and Policy Reform, Land Use Planning and Consolidation of Property 
Rights over Natural Resources
1.
Assessment of the efficiency and effectiveness of the Recipient's institutions dealing 
with natural resource management and identification of ways for the improvement thereof, 
including, inter alia, the improved inter-agency coordination, the design of strategies for resource 
management and conservation and identification of the roles of the public and private sector 
therein, and the creation of a management information and geographical information systems.
2.
Assessment of the legal, policy and regulatory frameworks for natural resource 
management including, inter alia, the evaluation of main policy failures and the design of the 
policy reforms needed.
3.
Preparation of land use plans including, inter alia, the definition of methodologies for 
micro land use plans and for consensus building.
4.
Identification of priority areas for consolidation of property rights, evaluation of the 
capacity of the Recipient's Instituto Nicaraguense de Reforma Agraria
to issue titles for forest 
and protected areas, design of schemes for the titling of forest lands and identification of priority 
protected areas for demarcation.
Part C
: Community-based Natural Resource Management and Environmental Fund
Review of natural resource management programs and projects being implemented, 
and/or to benefit local communities, development of a strategy to ensure that future natural 
resource management projects are demand driven and respond to communities needs, 
identification and development of mechanisms and procedures for effective collaboration 
between the public, community and private sectors, design of mechanisms for the financing of 
community-based natural resources and environmental activities, carrying out of workshops to 
build consensus for effective action and design of mechanisms for creating, financing and 
managing environmental community funds.
Part D
: Natural Resource Management Activities
Review of the successes and failures of natural resources management schemes in the 
Recipient's territory, design of pilot activities that could address, inter alia, watershed 
management, natural forest management, coastal zone management and protected areas 
management.
Part E
:
Project Unit
Page  9
Establishment of a project preparation unit within the Consejo Nacional Agropecuario
,
including, inter alia, the equipping of the office required therefor. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
. Procurement of Goods and Aerial Photography
Part A
: Shopping
Contracts for goods and aerial photography shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained, respectively, from at least three suppliers 
and contractors eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA 
credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section II
. Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the 
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex time-based 
assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form 
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have 
been agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with the Administrator. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than 
$15,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; 
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Administrator; (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$30,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to $15,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  10
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the amount of the 
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
Page  11
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within the 
period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
Page  12
