Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2018 TO
                      (Preinvestment Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 29, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2018 TO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF TOGO (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION   (the
Association).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed  on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to  extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (c)  "MPM" means the Ministere  du  Plan  et des Mines of the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment  Credit  Agreement,   an   amount   in  various  currencies
equivalent to  three  million  and  nine  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,900,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain a special account  in CFA francs in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1992 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Page  3
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  June  1  and December 1
commencing  June  1,  1999  and  ending  December  1,  2028.  Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on December
1, 2008 shall be one  percent  (1%)  of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter  shall  be  two  percent  (2%) of such
principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02  of  the  General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MPM with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate  administrative  and  financial  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the  Project,  the   Borrower   shall   employ  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
     Section 3.03. The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  except as otherwise
agreed with the Association,  carry out preinvestment studies only
Page  4
for investment proposals  estimated  to  cost more than $1,000,000
equivalent included in  its  rolling  Public Investment Program as
agreed upon from time  to  time  with  the Association; (b) before
undertaking any preinvestment study  or any sectoral study, submit
to the Association for its approval the terms of reference of said
study including a detailed  proposed budget thereof; (c) implement
the training program agreed upon  with the Association; and (d) by
August 31, 1989 submit  to  the  Association a list, acceptable to
the Association, of  candidates  for  the  training referred to in
paragraph (c)  above,  selected  on  the  basis  of  their current
positions, academic qualifications,  previous work experience, and
demonstrated capability to benefit from their participation in the
training.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
Page  5
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as  representative  of  the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          P.O. Box 387
          Lome
          Republic of Togo
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFIE                          5286
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                          By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  6
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated         % of
                               (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category                 SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'                3,290,000       89%
     services
(2)  Training                      210,000       100%
(3)  Unallocated                   400,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                   3,900,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall  be  made:  (a)  in  respect  of  payments  made for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement;  and (b) in
respect of payments for expenditures under category (1) unless the
Association has approved the  terms  of reference for the proposed
study and any contract concluded to carry out said study.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the  Project  is  to  assist the Borrower in
upgrading and  sustaining  the  quality  of  public investments by
building up a pipeline of investment proposals properly identified
and adequately prepared for  submission to financing agencies, and
in  strengthening  local   capacity   to   formulate  and  execute
preinvestment studies.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Preinvestment studies
     Execution of preinvestment  studies  designed  to justify and
prepare priority investment  projects  in  various  sectors of the
Borrower's economy.
Part B:   Sectoral Studies
     Execution of  sectoral  studies  to  evaluate  the results of
investments already  implemented  and  identify future investments
needed in specific sectors of the Borrower's economy.
Part C:   Training
     Short-term technical  and  managerial  training  of  staff of
technical ministries, including the Ministry of Plan and Mines, in
subject matters  related  to  project identification, preparation,
evaluation and monitoring.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
Page  7
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
Page  8
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Association shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
