Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF053898-TP 
 
Trust Fund for East Timor 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Power Sector Priority Investment Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor 
 
Dated April 1, 2005 
 
Page  2
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF053898-TP 
 
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 2005, between the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
OF TIMOR-LESTE (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor. 
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Resolution No. IDA99-5 
of the Executive Directors of the International Development Association, the Executive 
Directors established the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) to assist in an emergency 
reconstruction and recovery program
 in República Democrática de Timor-Leste and 
appointed the International Development Association as trustee of the TFET; and 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested assistance 
from the resources of the TFET for funding the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01 The “General Conditions Applicable to the Trust Fund for East 
Timor Grant Agreements” of the International Development Association, dated 
May 15, 2000, with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:   “11. ‘Recipient’ means the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste”; and 
 
(b) 
the text in Section 5.01 which reads “(a) on account of expenditures in 
the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories: or (b)” is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used in this Agreement: 
(a) 
“EDTL” means 
Electricidade de Timor-Leste
,
the unit within the 
Ministry of Transport, Communication and Public Works, handling the provision of 
electricity within República Democrática de Timor-Leste; 
(b) 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan dated June 18, 2004, 
and duly adopted by EDTL in respect of Part A of the Project, which sets out the 
environmental protection measures in respect of said Part A of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as 
the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Trustee; 
(c) 
“Fiscal Year” and the acronym “FY” mean the Recipient’s fiscal year 
commencing July 1 and ending June 30; 
(d) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
July 8, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, 
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of 
Project implementation;  
(e) 
“Project Performance Indicators” means those indicators designed to 
measure the Recipient’s performance in achieving the Project objective as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
(f) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount 
equal to one million three hundred ninety thousand Dollars ($1,390,000). 
(b) 
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose set forth in 
the Resolutions referred to in paragraph A of the preamble to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
Page  4
-
3
-
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall, through EDTL, 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, public utilities and economic practices, and social 
and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be 
further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the trustee, and furnish such update to the Trustee not later than 
12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for
 the Trustee’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and furnish to 
the Trustee not later than 6 months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
Page  5
-
4
-
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a plan to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objective of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.  
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Conditions 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Trustee, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Trustee, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Trustee may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Trustee a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Trustee, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Trustee 
not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date of 
this Agreement, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Trustee not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness 
 
Section 5.01. The Grant Agreement shall become effective as of the date of 
signature by both parties to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 
6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient:
 
Minister of Planning and Finance 
 
Ministry of Planning and Finance 
GPA Building 5 
 
Dili  
 
República Democrática de Timor-Leste  
 
Facsimile:    
 
(670) 333-9782 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Trustee: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or  
  (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dili, República Democrática de Timor-Leste, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE 
 
By: /s/ Maria Madalena Boavida       
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
acting as Trustee for the Trust Fund for East Timor 
 
By: /s/ Xian Zhu       
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  
Goods: 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures,100% of  
 
(a) Part A of the Project 
1,000,000 
local expenditures (ex- 
 
factory cost) and 90% 
 
(b) Part B of the Project 
298,000 
of local expenditures 
 
for other items 
 
(c) Part C of the Project 
90,000 
procured locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services under                       2,000 
96% for firms 
 
Part D of the Project 
 
 
 
________  
 
TOTAL 1,390,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; provided, however, that for 
purposes of this definition, the Dollar shall be deemed the currency of a country other 
than that of the Recipient; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made under the Grant: 
 
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.  
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
in respect of payments for purposes of Part B of the Project, until EDTL 
has furnished to the Trustee an Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Trustee, pursuant 
to Section 2 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts costing less 
than $15,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  
5. 
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
portion thereof as specified by the Trustee. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in improving EDTL’s 
energy generation capacity, and generation and distribution efficiency, through the 
delivery of least-cost, high quality electricity services, and the use by its consumers of 
energy efficient light bulbs. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
Enhancement of the Comoro power station, including provision of a 2.8 
Megawatt new engine with enhanced operational performance at unit number 5. 
Part B
:
Carrying out of electricity distribution system rehabilitation and 
extension activities of high economic priority in selected areas. 
Part C
:
Development of a program to encourage the use by EDTL’s consumers 
of energy efficient light bulbs, including the provision of energy efficient light bulbs to 
about 20,000 consumers participating in EDTL’s pre-payment meter program. 
Part D:
Auditing of Project activities, including the provision of technical 
assistance. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2005.
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation 
of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  13
-
12
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Single Source Selection
Services under Part D of the Project for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Trustee’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Trustee shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Trustee: (a) each contract for 
goods procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding; and (b) each contract 
for consultants’ services provided by a firm.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall:  
 
(a) 
carry out the EMP in a manner satisfactory to the Trustee; and 
(b) 
furnish any proposed revision to the EMP referred to in sub-paragraph 
(a) above to the Trustee for its prior approval. 
2. 
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
cause EDTL to furnish to the Trustee, an Implementation Plan 
satisfactory to the Trustee, setting forth procedures and guidelines for the 
implementation of said part of the Project; including: (i) the criteria for 
selection of areas and activities under Part B of the Project; (ii) the 
financial and economic analysis of different implementation options; (iii) 
a
detailed description of the selected distribution, rehabilitation and 
extension activities; (iv) an implementation schedule; and (v) a 
procurement plan; and 
(b) 
provide to the Trustee for its prior agreement any revision proposed for 
introduction into the aforementioned Implementation Plan, and thereafter 
introduce such revisions into the Plan as agreed with the Trustee. 
3
In carrying out Parts B and C of the Project, the Recipient shall cause EDTL to 
maintain until completion of the Project, a stock control system and an inventory system 
by which goods procured under such Parts of the Project are at all times physically 
accounted for.  
4. 
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Recipient shall cause EDTL to furnish, 
free of charge, no more than three energy efficient light bulbs per consumer participating 
in EDTL’s pre-payment meter program. 
 
5. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof; and 
Page  15
-
14
-
(b)     prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and furnish to 
the Trustee on a quarterly basis, commencing December 31, 2004, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during 
the period following such date. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Performance Indicators  
 
Indicator 
November 2004 
April 2005 
September 
2005 
Procurement and installation 
of goods under Part A of the 
Project 
 
Award of 
contract 
 
Unit on line 
Procurement and installation 
of goods under Part B of the 
Project 
 
Goods procured 
Installation 
completed 
Number of lamps distributed 
 
about 30,000 
lamps 
distributed 
about 30,000 
additional 
lamps 
distributed 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $75,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Trustee shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
Page  18
-
17
-
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the Grant Account under the respective eligible Category, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Trustee such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Page  19
-
18
-
Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund 
to the Trustee such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
