                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR0000785




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (TF-53898)




                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.39 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                   DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE

                                      FOR A

              POWER SECTOR PRIORITY INVESTMENT PROJECT




                                  October 31, 2008




Transport, Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Papua New Guinea, Pacific Islands and Timor-Leste Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 Currency Unit = US$
                               = US$1

                   FISCAL YEAR
               January 1 ­ December 31


       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB     Asian Development Bank
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFL     Compact Fluorescent Lamp
EDTL    Electricidade de Timor-Leste
IDA     International Development Association
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
JICA    Japan International Cooperation Agency
MC      Management Contractor
MTCPW   Ministry of Transport, Communication, and Public Works
MW      Megawatt
NPV     Net Present Value
PSDP    Power Sector Development Plan
SIP     Sector Investment Plan
TFET    Trust Fund for East Timor
TSP     Transition Support Program
UNTAET  United Nations Transitional Authority in East Timor


            Vice President: James W. Adams
          Country Director: Nigel Roberts
           Sector Manager: Junhui Wu
       Project Team Leader: Frederic Asseline
         ICR Team Leader: Frederic Asseline

                                         TIMOR-LESTE
                  Power Sector Priority Investment Project (PSPIP)




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 22
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 27
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 28
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 29
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 37
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Power Sector Priority
Country:                Timor-Leste           Project Name:
                                                                     Investments
Project ID:             P087801               L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-53898
ICR Date:               10/31/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     DEMOCRATIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              REPUBLIC OF
                                                                     TIMOR-LESTE
Original Total
                        USD 1.4M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 1.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Electricidade de Timor-Leste (EDTL)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:                           04/01/2005
Appraisal:             06/29/2004    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/23/2004    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:             03/31/2006          03/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                     Quality at Entry
                                                                       Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                             100               100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                              Primary          Primary
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                        Secondary         Secondary
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Nigel Roberts                       Xian Zhu
Sector Manager:            Junhui Wu                           Junhui Wu
Project Team Leader:       Frederic Asseline                   Barry Trembath
ICR Team Leader:           Frederic Asseline
ICR Primary Author:        Barry Trembath



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is the delivery of least-cost, high-quality electricity
service with minimum dependence on the government's budget.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                 ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised      Achieved at
                                              approval           Target    Completion or
                                            documents)           Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Generation capacity improvement
                                         discounted fuel
                                         savings of US$                  Discounted fuel
                                         1.136 million per               savings of
Value                                    year and reliable               US$3.851 million
quantitative or 0.0                      generation                      per year and
Qualitative)                             capacity of around              reliable generation
                                         2.8 MW (the                     capacity of 4.7 MW
                                         capacity of the old             via a new generator
                                         engine)
Date achieved 07/30/2004                 09/30/2005                      03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Energy savings through energy efficient lamps
                                                                         27,600 CFLs
Value                                    Discounted fuel                 distributed with
quantitative or 0.0                      cost savings of                 discounted fuel cost
Qualitative)                             $1.93m per year                 savings estimated at
                                                                         $3.68 million
Date achieved 07/30/2004                 09/30/2005                      03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                     Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised    Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Installation and commissioning of engine at Unit No. 5
                                                                         New generator at
                                                                         Unit 5
                                                                         commissioned and

Value                                    Component 1 -                   operational since

(quantitative                            Unit online by                  April 1, 2007

or Qualitative)                          September 30,                   (4,7MW). High
                                         2005                            availability with
                                                                         64% load factor
                                                                         average by June
                                                                         2008.
Date achieved                            09/30/2005                      03/31/2008



                                              iii

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Rehabilitation of selected areas of Dili distribution system
                                                                            Funds were used to
                                                                            procure a large
                                                                            step-up transformer

Value                                     Installation                      to distribute power

(quantitative                             complete by                       from the new 4,7

or Qualitative)                           September 30,                     MW generator.
                                          2005                              Conductors were
                                                                            supplied and will be
                                                                            used in the follow-
                                                                            up IDA ESDP.
Date achieved                             09/30/2005                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Component 3 - Number of energy efficient lamps/light bulbs distributed
Value                                     About 30,000                      A total of 27,600
(quantitative                             additional lamps                  lamps were
or Qualitative)                           distributed.                      distributed.
Date achieved                             09/30/2005                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Component 4 - Project Audit
                                          First audit: July-                The last GoTL
                                          August 2005                       audit report was for
Value                                     Second audit:                     the FY ending in
(quantitative                             within 4 months of                June 2007. The next
or Qualitative)                           project closing                   GoTL audit will be
                                          date                              carried out in
                                                                            December 2008.
Date achieved                             08/31/2005                        03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                            IP             Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/29/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/22/2005   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     04/03/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                      0.14
  4     04/21/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                      0.14



                                               iv

  5   06/08/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory    1.34



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Context

At the time of appraisal, the economy of Timor-Leste was still recovering from the
difficult period following its independence. The violence and unrest leading to the
country's independence in 1999 brought destruction of public and private property and of
much of the infrastructure as well as significant disruption to the agricultural and trade
cycles. Large-scale emigration after 1999, particularly of skilled labor, had left a human
resource gap affecting all sectors.

Sector Context

The key issues in relation to the power sector were as follows:

    · Significant burden of power sector on limited government resources. Primary
        responsibility for electricity service provision rested with Electricidade de Timor-
        Leste (EDTL) which has been a significant burden on government resources since
        its formation in 1999. This was attributed to a combination of factors: (a)
        dependence on diesel generation burning expensive imported fuel; (b) low
        efficiencies of power generation and distribution; (c) inefficiency of energy use
        by consumers; and (d) low collection rates for delivered energy that could be
        attributed to the culture of "non payment" for electricity services, which goes
        back to the initial period after 1999 when they were provided for free.

    · Low Quality of Electricity Service: Power supply in the capital city, Dili, was
        intermittent because of generation equipment failures at Comoro Power Station
        and distribution problems (generally overloading).

    · Incomplete rehabilitation of regional systems: While the generating capacity in
        Dili remained largely intact during the unrest leading to advent of independence,
        most of the power stations outside Dili suffered extensive damage. Despite
        intensive donor supported rehabilitation efforts (mainly aimed at generation), the
        operational level of power systems in the regions remained very low. Service was
        usually limited to 5-6 hours per day.

    · Low coverage of access: Approximately 40,000 households in the country had
        access to electricity, implying an electrification ratio of about 21 percent. Of this
        total, EDTL served 20,000 connections in Dili. About 80 percent of the
        population (mainly outside Dili) was not served with electricity.


Government Initiatives in the Electricity Sector



                                               1

By the time of project appraisal, the Government had made significant progress in the
power sector since the independence of Timor-Leste. In addition to significant
rehabilitation efforts for power generation, the government had been able to:

    · proceed with legal and regulatory development;
    · develop a Power Sector Development Plan (PSDP) covering a 20-year period;
    · develop a Sector Investment Plan (SIP) outlining priority investments for the
        short and medium term;
    · employ a management contractor (MC) to operate EDTL; and
    · improve collections for electricity bills through the installation of 8,000 pre-
        payment meters among EDTL customers in Dili (representing about one third of
        total customers).

Rationale for Bank Group Involvement

At the time of appraisal, there was no Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Timor-
Leste and the power SIP was the guiding document for World Bank involvement as well
as the World Bank-led, donor-supported Transition Support Program (TSP). IDA is the
trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET), the multi-donor trust fund that has
supported reconstruction and development activities since early 2000 through projects
implemented by Government ministries.

The World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) had provided extensive input
to the SIP and the Bank's knowledge of the sector was a key reason for the Government's
request for IDA assistance. The rationale for IDA involvement included the availability
of in-house energy sector development expertise, ability to mobilize global experts with
field experience, technical support for project preparation and supervision capacity, and
development of linkages with other sources of expertise and funding. IDA involvement
was also expected to help ensure quality of the project, while providing necessary project
due diligence and other fiduciary responsibilities.

Higher Level Objectives to which the Project would contribute

The Government's vision until 2020, as stated in the May 2002 National Development
Plan (NDP), set the following objectives for the power sector:

        (a) The power sector would create and maintain reliable and affordable power
            supplies which meet the needs of immediate areas served, to support
            economic productivity and quality of life, throughout Timor-Leste.
        (b) Supplies would be developed to achieve lowest possible costs in the long run,
            tapping the economic potential of indigenous resources to displace costly
            imported fuels; indigenous resources to be developed may include natural gas,
            hydropower, solar, and others.




                                              2

Each of the components of the project was in line with the Government's vision of
reliable and affordable power supplies which would reduce the consumption of costly
imported fuels.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objective was the delivery of least-cost, high-quality electricity
service with minimum dependence on the government's budget. This objective would be
achieved through improvements in EDTL's generation capacity, generation and
distribution efficiency, and through savings achieved by reduction in demand with the
use of energy efficient lamps/light bulbs.

The key indicators of progress on this development objective were: system reliability,
generation and distribution efficiency, and reduction in Government subsidy to EDTL.
The annex 3 of the PAD proposes two qualitative outcome indicators: generation capacity
improvement and energy savings through energy efficient lamps.

1.3 Revised PDO

PDOs were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The main beneficiaries of the project are the electricity consumers of Dili who are the
recipients of higher quality electricity and the citizens of Timor-Leste as a whole because
of the reduced dependence of the power sector on the Government budget.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

    (i) Replacement of engine at Unit No. 5 at Comoro Power Station. The objective was
         to enhance base load generation capacity and reduce fuel costs by replacing the
         unit engine with a new 2.8 MW unit at Comoro power station. The estimated cost
         was $1.0 million.
    (ii) Distribution system rehabilitation in Dili. The objective was to improve service
         quality and reduce losses through reinforcement and rehabilitation of the Dili
         system. The estimated cost was $298,000.
    (iii) Distribution of energy efficient lamps/light bulbs. The objective was to achieve
         reductions in fuel costs incurred by EDTL through greater efficiency in energy
         end-use for lighting. The estimated cost was $90,000.
    (iv) Project audit. Two project audits would be conducted to confirm that project
         resources have been used for eligible project activities. The estimated cost was
         $2,000.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.



                                              3

1.7 Other significant changes

a. Size and costs of project component (i) ­ Replacement of engine at Unit No.5 at
Comoro Power Station
As explained below, after unsuccessful bidding for the new 2.8 MW engine, this
component was revised to include the replacement of the entire generating set with a
larger 4.7 MW unit. This increased the cost of this component to $1.686 million, as
compared with the appraisal estimate of $1 million. The cost overrun was covered fully
by Government funding.

b. Institutional arrangements

Responsibility for the power sector was passed from the Ministry of Transport,
Communication and Public Works (MTCPW) to the Ministry of Natural Resources,
Minerals and Energy Policy (MNRMEP) in early 2006 and to the Ministry of
Infrastructure (MOI) in August 2007. In addition, the EDTL management contractor was
changed in September 2007

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was the first power sector investment operation in Timor-Leste supported by
the World Bank Group. As indicated in the PAD, the experience of earlier power
projects financed by other donors as well as the lessons learned from earlier TFET-
financed projects in the country were incorporated in the project design, including the
recognition of such key success factors as the full commitment from the recipient
counterpart and the need for high-quality consultant expertise.

The Government was very committed to this project and made the provision of reliable
electricity service a national priority. The National Development Plan (NDP) published in
May 2002 states that "the people will no longer be isolated because there will be good
roads, transport, electricity and communications in the towns and villages and all the
regions of the country".

The strategic relevance and design of the project has remained valid, as exemplified by
the robust project economics re-estimated at ICR. In addition, as cited by the QAG report,
the project's strengths were its simplicity of design and the early contracting of an
experienced electricity company as Management Contractor (MC) to provide credible
assurance that the project would be implemented efficiently. However, as also cited by
the QAG report, there was room for improvements in risk assessment during project
preparation, as exemplified by the overly optimistic project cost estimate for the key
power generation component and project implementation schedule.




                                              4

On balance, quality of entry is rated satisfactory, which is consistent with the rating by
QAG.

2.2 Implementation

Delayed start-up

There was delay in the signing of the Grant Agreement as the Government of Timor-
Leste had to ensure that the proposed World Bank project would not overlap with a
transformer replacement project financed by the Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA). The Government of Timor-Leste requested revision of the Project Description
such that the power distribution component would be outside the areas covered by the
JICA-financed project. Although IDA approval was received on July 23, 2004, the Grant
signature and effectiveness were delayed until April 1, 2005

Extended overall implementation delays

There were three significant factors that fell short of appraisal expectations, plus a major
unforeseen factor, which adversely affected project implementation.

    · At the time of project appraisal, the cost estimate of the engine replacement
       component was based on a supplier quotation provided earlier to EDTL.
       Subsequently, the US dollar had depreciated substantially against the Euro. Also,
       costs of materials such as steel and copper had risen dramatically. As a result,
       when bids were ultimately called, the bid price (from the supplier who originally
       quoted) was 90 percent higher than the original quotation and exceeded the total
       TFET grant amount for this project. The high price might also be partially
       explained by the lack of competition arising from the fact that only one
       manufacturer could supply the equipment. As a result of the high price it was
       necessary to re-bid, thus opening up the bidding process to alternatives, as
       explained below.

    · The MC was expected to have the competence to make up for the lack of
       institutional capacity in EDTL and the Government in procurement and project
       implementation. This proved to be overly optimistic since the staff of the then
       MC located in Dili had no procurement experience. To some extent, this
       shortcoming was overcome by the presence of an international procurement
       adviser in the Ministry of Planning and Finance who was able to assist in
       commercial aspects but not in technical specifications of bidding documents for
       this project. Eventually, an engineer from the MC head office was assigned to
       assist in preparing technical specifications, but not before significant procurement
       delays had occurred.

    · A major unforeseen factor affecting the latter phase of project implementation
       was the deteriorating political and social environment in Dili which began in early
       2006. By May 2006, after several increasingly unstable months, Timor-Leste had



                                              5

        slid into a complex political, social, and security crisis. The crisis generated a
        new set of challenges, including displacement of the population, destruction of
        property, dramatically weakened security institutions, with armed groups
        operating outside the purview of state institutions.

Implementation of project components

(i) Generation Component

The primary factor affecting early project implementation was the very high bid for the
replacement engine. EDTL attempted to negotiate with the lowest bidder based on
reduced scope, but eventually it was decided, with IDA's concurrence, to call for new
bids opening up the process to alternatives. Upon re-bidding, only one complying bid
was received for a replacement engine and only this bidder submitted four alternative
bids. The Government decided to award the contract to an alternative bid that was clearly
superior in terms of expected fuel savings. While this bid exceeded the funds available
from the Grant by $685,756, the Government was able to mobilize additional funds to
cover fully the above cost overrun and therefore decided to accept the bid, with
concurrence by IDA, for a 4.7 MW diesel generator set instead of the engine replacement.

The generator was commissioned in April, 2007, approximately 17 months delayed from
project appraisal estimate, mainly due to cost overrun and rebidding as well as political
and social unrest. In November 2007, the replaced engine encountered some operational
problems which required repair by the supplier (under warranty) for one month before it
was put back into operation.       The generator has a high availability and, with the
exception of the one month of repair noted above, the average monthly generation from
April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2008 achieved a load factor of 64 percent.

(ii) Distribution System Rehabilitation

The delay in the procurement of the generation component also resulted in a delay in
procurement of the distribution rehabilitation component. During appraisal, it was agreed
that the value of the latter component would be adjustable depending on the bids received
for the higher priority component for the replacement of a generating unit.
Implementation was then delayed by other factors as follows:


    · The better, larger than expected generator required the procurement of a larger
        step-up transformer to distribute the power, amounting to $159,180 that was not
        foreseen for the power distribution rehabilitation component at the time of project
        appraisal. The Bank Team first applied for TFET funding in the amount of
        $325,000 and produced related documentation for additional financing, the funds
        however could not materialize due to an unexpected reduction in TFET
        commitments.

    · This advice came after the Government had already awarded a contract for
        conductors ($124,975). As the TFET additional funding failed to materialize,


                                               6

        there were insufficient funds to finance complementary materials and installation
        to implement the original scope of the power distribution rehabilitation
        component. The Bank Team then explored with the Government other methods to
        finance these materials and identified funds available in the government budget
        for similar work which could potentially be reallocated to this component.
        However, by this time, disruption to the government processes as a result of social
        and political unrest was such that the approval for budget reallocation was not
        obtained from the Council of Ministers.


    · It was decided to utilize the conductors already purchased ($124,975) in the
        distribution rehabilitation component under a follow-up IDA-financed Energy
        Services Delivery Project (ESDP). The ESDP is an emergency operation which
        was approved by the Board in May, 2007. By the time of the PSPIP completion
        mission in April 2008, the Bank Team verified that the conductors are in storage
        at the EdTL in Dili. The current MC is utilizing them as part of its program to
        improve distribution in Dili, a priority within the objectives of the ESDP project.


(iii) Energy Efficient Lamps

The project financed provision of 50,000 compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) to be
distributed for free as an incentive to EDTL consumers who purchased prepaid electricity
vouchers. Distribution of two free CFLs per consumer started in September 2005 after
EDTL carried out an extensive campaign through posters, radio and through discussion
with consumers. CFLs were also distributed for free for all Government buildings. A total
of 27,600 CFLs were distributed by April 2006. However, by that time, the civil unrest
had commenced and the distribution was temporarily suspended in May 2006.

All remaining CFLs were accounted for and are currently in storage at EdTL in Dili, as
witnessed by the Bank PSPIP completion mission in April 2008. The distribution of the
CFLs will resume with the inception of the "return to user-pay" program implemented by
the new MC at EdTL. The program is designed to remove by-passes to electric meters
and introduce pre-paid cards for consumers. Willingness to pay for electricity service is
rewarded with the distribution of free CFLs. The "return to user-pay" program is
supported by the follow-up ESDP project.

The decision to postpone the distribution rehabilitation component resulted in additional
funds, totaling $13,000, becoming available for the CFL component. Against the
backdrop of rising and high oil prices for power generation, the Government recognized
the importance of energy conservation and the TFET Grant Agreement was amended to
increase the grant allocation from $90,000 to $103,000 for the CFL component, along
with an increase of distribution from three to four lamps per EDTL customer.

The grant closing date was also extended to accommodate the last procurement activities
for additional CFLs. However, the supplier reportedly failed to honor key terms in the
contract (dated January 3, 2008), notably requesting a substantial price increase without




                                               7

committing to the timely delivery of the CFLs prior to the grant closing date. EDTL then
decided not to pursue this procurement and the funds were cancelled.

(iv) Audit

At the time of appraisal, arrangements for project auditing had still not been finalized. It
was therefore decided to allocate funds from the project for this purpose. Eventually,
however, the Government retained auditors to cover all trust fund financed projects. The
last audit report was for the year ended June 30, 2007. With the change in the
Government's financial year the next audit will be carried out for the year ending
December 31, 2008.

Total project costs and financing

The total project costs are $2.032 million, representing a cost-overrun of 46 percent in
comparison with the appraisal estimates of $1.41 million. This was attributable to the
procurement of a bigger, better generation unit, made possible with added Government
funding. Government counterpart funding amounted to $685,756, as compared with the
appraisal estimate of $0.02 million.

Of the total TFET grant of $1.39 million, $1.346 million (97 percent) was disbursed for
eligible project expenditures. In addition, disbursement of $29,082 to the Special
Account was refunded to IDA. The TFET grant was closed on March 30, 2008, after
three extensions, representing a two-year delay from the original closing date on March
31, 2006.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Monitoring and Evaluation indicators were relatively simple in keeping with the
simple nature of the project. The main component was the generating plant which
achieves lower cost generation and reduced system outages on commissioning.
Intermediate results were milestone dates which were appropriate in monitoring progress
towards commissioning. Indicators were also provided in the PAD for the efficient
lighting component. Since it is not possible to measure directly the energy savings
attributable to installation of lights, it is considered reasonable to make the same
assumptions concerning load factor (hours per day of usage) as were made in the PAD in
the ICR re-estimates of project economics. In addition, intermediate dates were
milestone dates in implementation which were appropriate monitoring indicators.




                                                 8

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard

The new generating unit represents only a small part of the existing Comoro Power
Station. Thus, the environmental measures required in the Environmental Management
Plan (EMP)1 were limited to the projected impacts of the new generating unit. The
agreed measures to mitigate impacts have been reasonably implemented. Emission
standards were included in the bidding documents and considered in the bid evaluation.

The old generator was dismantled and useable parts were reused. The washings generated
in the dismantling of the unit were treated in the oil water separator system and the
separated waste oil stored in drums. EdTL also identified a recycler who is now receiving
waste oil. The current fuel supply contract also specifies 0.5 percent sulfur content. While
there was also no emission testing done at commissioning, it is usual to rely on
manufacturer's specifications for small units such as the one installed. The main
environmental outcomes such as lower fuel consumption and lower per kilowatt hour
(kWh) emissions have been achieved. The average fuel usage during 18 months of
operation of 0.238 litres per kWh (l/kWh) compares with the fuel usage of the high speed
units displaced of 0.28 l/kWh. It is also much less than the four older medium speed
units in the station where fuel consumption varies from 0.253 to 0.401 l/kWh.

There are, however, some remaining environmental issues with regard to the power plant
as a whole which, while not related to the project per se, should be addressed by EDTL
management. The waste water system of the Comoro Power Station, despite some
improvements, is still susceptible to storm water inflow and actually overflowed into the
city drainage system during the completion mission. The power plant management is
aware of the problem and has agreed to correct the defects.

There are also some occupational health, safety and security issues which the new plant
management has begun to address. One of the initiatives is the use of earmuffs by plant
employees working inside the power plant. The management is also in the process of
evaluating bids for the upgrade of the station's fire-fighting system under the Energy
Services Delivery Project. The management has also conducted a security audit and the
recommended measures have been submitted to the EDTL Board.

Fiduciary

The audit opinion in 2007 was qualified on the basis of the lack of supporting documents
in relation to the procurement of the generator and step-up transformer. This arose
because the audit occurred just after the handover between the two EDTL management



1The EMP was revised in December, 2005 to reflect the expected performance of the new generating unit
as opposed to the replacement engine originally envisaged.




                                                    9

contractors, and at that time the new MC was unable to locate the documentation at EdTL.
The Bank has all such documentation on file.

Project procurement followed World Bank guidelines. All four contracts funded under
this project were prior reviewed by the Bank and all the relevant documentation in the
project files. The contracts were funded through direct disbursement by the Bank. In
addition, fees for opening two letters of credit were disbursed through Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) by the Government from its Special Account and they were properly
substantiated with the relevant bank statement.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

As part of the contract, the supplier of the new generating set carried out training of
EDTL staff on engine operation and maintenance. The training included introduction to
the diesel generator and auxiliary systems, maintenance schedule and on-the-plant
practice to start and stop the engine. A detailed Operation Manual is also available at the
Comoro power plant. As noted above, EDTL is being managed by a new MC which is
an experienced operator in power utilities. Moreover, the Bank is continuing its
engagement with the Government and EDTL under the ongoing Energy Services
Delivery Project (ESDP).

As noted above the ESDP was designed as an emergency IDA (US$2.5 million
equivalent) follow-up operation to the PSPIP. Its objectives are to support emergency
repairs at the Comoro Power Plant, to improve distribution in Dili and electricity payment
rates through a comprehensive re-metering program and to provide training and capacity
building notably via the provision of technical and financial advisors. Financial risks
associated with this operation are substantial; they are mitigated by the performance of
the current management contractor in charge of monitoring generation and distribution
rehabilitation programs in Dili.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the project were highly relevant at the time of appraisal and are even
more so at project completion in view of the higher than expected load growth and sharp
increases in oil prices that have resulted in substantially higher fuel cost savings than
anticipated at the time of project appraisal.

The objectives of the project were highly relevant to Timor Leste's national priority of
delivering least-cost, high quality electricity. They were also highly relevant to the
second pillar of the draft CAS on Delivering Sustainable Services. The project delivered
a larger and more reliable generator than anticipated, a low-speed, base load machine that
currently provides the backbone of generation capacity in Dili. The benefits of having
been able to procure a larger base-load generation unit were leveraged further by raising
fuel costs throughout the lifetime of the project.



                                              10

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project achieved its development objectives of the delivery of least-cost, high-quality
electricity service with minimum dependence on the Government's budget. Annex 3 of
the PAD on Results Framework and Monitoring proposes two qualitative indicators to
appraise Project Development Objectives: 1- Generation capacity improvement and 2-
Energy savings through energy efficient lamps.

1- Net Present Value (NPV) analysis shows that, at 10% discounted rate, the generation
component over-achieved its objective with NPV at US$3.851 million compared with
US$1.591 at appraisal. About half of this benefit it due to increased fuel costs, with the
other half due to increased generation.

2- Due to raising fuel prices throughout the lifetime of the project, the NPV of discounted
fuel cost savings through usage of energy efficient lamps was raised from US$1.939
million at appraisal to US$3.68 million.

All three physical components were aimed at achieving this objective.

Component (i), the generation component exceeded considerably the appraisal estimate
of fuel cost savings and related reduction in dependence on the Government's budget.
The new generating unit also considerably improved the quality of power supply which
was a substantial achievement considering the high rate of growth of demand in the Dili
system. The average monthly generation of the new generator over the period April, 2007
to January 2008 (excluding one month for major repair) was 2.62 million kWh per month.
The fuel consumption averaged 0.238 l/kWh in comparison with 0.28 l/kWh for the high
speed generation displaced. This represents a cost saving of 121,000 l/month. The
payback period for this project component is less than 2 years (see Annex 3).

Component (ii) did not achieve its objectives since implementation was not completed for
various reasons explained in Section 2.2, including diversion of part of the allocation to
purchase a step-up transformer. It is clear that this diversion had a beneficial effect on
achievement of overall objectives to reduce fuel costs and related dependence on the
Government budget. As explained the materials purchased for Component (ii) will be
utilized in a similar and larger component under the Energy Services Delivery Project.

Component (iii) mostly achieved its objectives. Because of the security situation in Dili,
only 56 percent of the energy efficient bulbs purchased were distributed. However, the
remainder is in stock at EDTL and, as noted above, will be distributed in conjunction
with the proposals of the current MC for tariff adjustments and returning to a user-pay
system which are pending government approval. One indirect outcome of this component
was that electricity consumers in Dili became very conscious of the financial benefits of
energy efficient lighting such that these bulbs became very common in both informal and
formal shops in Dili during the implementation period.

3.3 Efficiency



                                             11

The major economic benefits of the project are derived from fuel cost savings. The
comparisons of appraisal estimates and current re-estimates of the project economics (in
constant 2004 dollars) are summarized by the following table below:

                                           Appraisal Estimates            ICR Re-estimates
1. Replacement of engine
component
· NPV (at 10% discount rate)                  $1.591 million                $3.851 million
· Economic Rate of Return                           49%                         120%
    (ERR)
· Benefit/Cost ratio                                1.59                          2.2

2. Distribution of energy
efficient light bulbs component
(based on 27,600 CFLs
distributed)
· NPV (at 10% discount rate)                  $1.939 million                 $3.68 million
· Payback period                           Less than 2 months            Less than one week
· Benefit/Cost ratio                                22.6                         18.3

The ICR re-estimates of quantified economic benefits accrued to the country are
substantially higher than those of the appraisal estimates mainly due to the following
factors: (i) sharply higher fuel oil costs; (ii) substantially higher capacity and power sales
from the power generation unit with replaced engine; and (iii) to a lesser extent, delayed
commissioning of the Ira Lalaro hydropower project. Detailed discussions, including
assumptions which are conservative, are presented in Annex 3.

Project Financial Analysis

The PAD noted that the project financial return is the same as the project economic return
for the replacement of the power generation engine component as the project benefits and
costs do not include any taxes or subsidies. Based on the same reasons, the ICR re-
estimate of the project financial return is the same as the ERR noted above.

Regarding the financial benefits of energy efficient light bulbs to individual households,
the PAD assumed energy savings of 27.9 kWh per month from 3 CFLs, valued at
$0.14/kWh. This would have resulted in monthly savings totaling $3.9. However, the
PAD mistakenly cited $4.8 as the monthly savings. The ICR re-estimate of monthly
savings assumed the same amount of energy savings noted above at project appraisal, but
valued them at current power tariff of $0.12/kWh, resulting in lower monthly savings of
$3.3.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                                12

The primary justification for this rating is the achievement of the objectives of the major
component for power generation. Against this outcome are the shortcomings associated
with less than full achievement of objectives of the other components, and the delays
incurred in project implementation. On balance, the Outcome is rated moderately
satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

At the time of project appraisal, the MC was expected to provide adequate training and
build up the institutional capacity of EDTL, as provided in its contract with the
Government. However, the actual performance of the MC in capacity building was mixed
and inadequate. While training was provided to technicians for hands-on operational
work, transfer of professional managerial skills to EDTL local staff was largely lacking.
This was, in part, due to lack of adequate local staff at EDTL that could be trained. To
mitigate these adverse factors, the Bank partnered with other donors to finance technical
assistance and training for the power sector in connection with follow-up operations and
sector work in the power sector in the country.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None to report.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial, mainly due to political and social instability and related security risks
as well as financial risks of EDTL that may impede the commerciality and long-term
sustainability of the power sector, even though the project per se faces low risks. The
Energy Services Delivery Project and subsequent operations in Timor-Leste to date are
processed under the emergency response procedures for fragile states.

Potential risks to development outcome in various categories are discussed in the
following paragraphs:

Technical: The technology of the generating unit, while considered modern, is not
advanced. There are no significant technical risks in this regard. Technology of other
investment components is also standard.

Financial: There are increasing risks to EDTL financial condition with continued
escalation of oil prices and low collection rates. However, EDTL is an arm of the



                                              13

Government which is a major beneficiary of high oil revenue and it can easily afford to
subsidize EDTL's fuel costs. On the other hand, the high percentage of customer
nonpayment undermines the financial sustainability of the power sector, and the
resolution of this issue is still pending government approval.

Economic: Both the generating unit and the CFLs have already recouped their
investment so there is no risk in this regard.

Social: There are no negative social impacts, nor any social opposition to the project.

Political: While Timor-Leste is only now recovering from a highly volatile political
situation, there was never any opposition to the project's implementation and operation.

Environment: Since the project has clear environmental benefits in comparison to the do-
nothing alternative there are no risks in this regard.

Government Ownership Commitment: The Government is committed to provide
budgetary support to power generation, provision of reliable electricity supply is a
national priority.

Institutional Support: The new management contractor has substantially upgraded
management practices at Comoro Power Station. The contractor is also committed to the
re-establishment of the pre-paid meter system and to distribution system overhaul, subject
to Government approval which is still pending.

Governance: Governance procedures are satisfactory.

Natural Disasters: The project is not especially prone to natural disasters.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.

The QEA7 assessment was accepted by the appraisal team is also judged to be
appropriate by the ICR team. The Satisfactory rating is consistent with the QAG
assessment which has the following ratings: highly satisfactory for strategic relevance
and approach as well as for policy and institutional aspects; moderately satisfactory for
implementation arrangements and risk assessment, and satisfactory for all other aspects.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory



                                              14

Focus on Development Impact: The Bank team, including substantial support from the
regional offices in Dili, Jakarta and Sydney, was very persistent in assisting the
Government and EDTL to overcome the many challenges to the project to expedite its
implementation, and to adjust the scope in accordance with changing circumstances.
These timely interventions were not limited to supervision missions but were continuous
throughout the implementation period, notably with the presence of a project team
member in the Dili office who continually worked to expedite actions required from
EDTL and the Government. Regular email exchanges and video conferences also
facilitated timely and effective communications with the Government and EDTL. As a
result of proactive actions by the Bank team, they were able to considerably reduce the
lead time when EDTL or the Government were on the critical path of project
implementation.

Supervision of Fiduciary and Safeguard Aspects: All four contracts under the project
were subject to prior review by the Bank and funded through direct disbursements.
Supervision of safeguard aspects went well beyond the norm for such a simple project
with environmental and social safeguard specialists included in supervision missions.
This was made possible because supervision missions were carried out in parallel with
preparation missions for the Energy Services Delivery Project.

Candor and Quality of Performance Reporting: The achievement of the Development
Objective was rated as moderately satisfactory throughout most of the implementation
period, reflecting the expected effect on Outcome of implementation delays. Similarly,
implementation progress was rated moderately satisfactory during most of the time when
project implementation was delayed. The ratings of supervision mission are considered
reasonable.

Role in Ensuring Adequate Transition Arrangements: Bank staff involved in supervision
were also on the project team for the preparation and appraisal of the follow-up Energy
Services Delivery Project. Indeed, the Task Team Leader for project preparation has
remained as a task team member through supervision to project completion. Continuity
among key team members was consistent with the suggestion of QAG.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

As explained above for rating Bank performance during project preparation and
supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.




                                             15

The performance of the Government was rated in the context of a difficult operating
environment, notably with the lack of their own staff and continuity throughout the
project implementation period. In response to the above severe limitations, the
Government relied on qualified consultants for procurement and financial management.
The performance of the Government can be rated on the basis of their actions in two
areas: (a) their actions in relation to the procurement of the generating unit at the Ministry
of Planning and Finance; and (b) their responsive actions in relation to reallocating
budget funds to make up for the shortfall relating to the generating unit, the procurement
of which was carried out satisfactorily despite the adverse circumstances of substantial
cost overrun unforeseen at the time of appraisal. When it became clear that the best
solution was to purchase a larger new generating unit instead of a smaller engine
replacement unit envisaged at appraisal, the Government acted decisively to identify
other funds to cover the cost overrun and overcame the related administrative hurdles.
With respect to reallocation of state budget to finance the shortfall in the distribution
rehabilitation program, the Government did not act so decisively and the reallocation did
not occur. However, this is understandable because of imminent elections and
subsequent changes to a new government.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The rating in this area is in regard to the performance of EDTL under the former
management contractor. During the project preparation period, the performance could be
regarded as satisfactory since the initial General Manager of the MC provided critical
inputs during project preparation and initial project implementation, including the
preparation of the necessary documentation such as EMP and the Procurement Plan and
mobilized head office support in the preparation of technical specifications in bidding
documents. However, after his one year contract ended, his two subsequent replacements
were largely indifferent to the project. On balance, an overall rating of moderately
satisfactory is therefore considered appropriate for the Implementing Agency.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned

    · Realistic capacity assessment and the limited capacity of the government and the
        power utility must be addressed adequately. The project design has to be simple
        and support high priority "quick-win" investments that are relatively
        straightforward, with negligible technological risks. To mitigate project
        implementation risks, "supply and installation" may be the preferred mode of
        procurement.
    · The capacity of a power utility management contractor for project implementation
        may well be limited unless provisions for the management of capital projects are



                                               16

       included in its contract. Thus, utility management contracts should include
       management of foreseen capital projects and capacity building of utility staff in
       their scope of responsibilities.
    · Timely and professional supervision of the management contract is essential. A
       recent consultant review of the performance under the first management contract
       highlighted the failure to monitor the contract properly, as well as the difficult
       operating environment, as critical reasons for the poor performance overall under
       the contract.
    · Realistic risk assessment and appropriate implementation arrangements for
       contingency plans to cover downside risks as cost overruns are essential for
       ensuring project quality at entry.
    · Continuity of key project team members is conducive to efficiency and
       effectiveness in the Bank's inputs during project supervision. In addition,
       synergies may well be achieved by follow-up operations in the sector with the
       same project team.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Government and EDTL provided data which have been incorporated in the ICR and
no substantive comments were received on the draft ICR provided to them. The
Government's ICR is presented in Annex 7.




                                             17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                               Appraisal          Actual/Latest
Components                     Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD    Percentage of

                               millions)          millions)        Appraisal

Replacement of the MAK IV
engine at Unit No. 5 of the             1.000              1.686        169%
Comoro Power Plant
Rehabilitation and extension of
the Dili distribution system            0.298              0.286         97%

Distribution of 60,000 compact
fluorescent lamps (CFLs) to
Dili customers who are                  0.090              0.060         67%
participating in EDTL's pre-
paid metering program
Project Audit                           0.002              0.000          0%



Total Baseline Cost                     1.390              2.032        146%

Physical Contingencies                  0.000              0.000

Price Contingencies                     0.000              0.000
Total Project Costs                     1.390              2.032
Front-end fee PPF                       0.000              0.000
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.000              0.000
Total Financing Required                1.390              2.032        146%



(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal    Actual/Late

Source of Funds                   Type of      Estimate     st Estimate Percentage
                                  Cofinancing (USD          (USD        of Appraisal
                                               millions)    millions)
Borrower                                       0.020        0.686          3430%
Special Financing                              1.390        1.346          97%
Total Financing                                1.41         2.032          144%




                                          18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component



Planned Outputs at Appraisal (Target values)   Actual Outputs at Completion and Any
                                               Variances
                           Project Component 1 - $1.0 million
              Replacement of engine at Unit No.5 at Comoro Power Station

  Installation and     Award of contract by        Installation and     Contract awarded

 commissioning of      Nov 30, 2004              commissioning of a     on August 08,

 2,8MW engine at                                   4.7 MW diesel        2006

     Unit No. 5        Unit online by           generator set instead   Unit online April
                       September 30, 2005        engine replacement     1, 2007
Final Output:
The generator was commissioned in April, 2007, approximately 17 months delayed from
project appraisal estimate, mainly due to cost overrun and rebidding as well as political
and social unrest. In November 2007, the replaced engine encountered some operational
problems which required repair by the supplier (under warranty) for one month before it
was put back into operation. The generator has a high availability and, with the exception
of the one month of repair noted above, the average monthly generation from April 1,
2007 to June 30, 2008 achieved a load factor of 64 percent.

The average monthly generation of the new generator over the period April, 2007 to
January 2008 (excluding one month for major repair) was 2.62 million kWh per month.
The fuel consumption averaged 0.238 l/kWh in comparison with 0.28 l/kWh for the high
speed generation displaced. This represents a cost saving of 121,000 l/month. The
payback period for this project component is less than 2 years.

The generation component exceeded considerably the appraisal estimate of fuel cost
savings and related reduction in dependence on the Government's budget. The new
generating unit also considerably improved the quality of power supply which was a
substantial achievement considering the high rate of growth of demand in the Dili system.

                             Project Component 2 - $298,000
                        Distribution system rehabilitation in Dili
                       Award of contact by     Supply and               Award of contract
                       December 10, 2004       installation of a step-  on November 27,

  Rehabilitation of                            up transformer and       2006

selected areas of the  Goods received by       related accessories      Unit online April

  Dili distribution    April 30, 2005          supply, control and      1, 2007

       system                                  protection system
                                               integration
                       Installation complete   Supply of Conductors Award of contract
                       by September 30,                                 on September 19,



                                           19

                         2005                                              2006
Final Output:
The delay in the procurement of the generation component also resulted in a delay in
procurement of the distribution rehabilitation component. During appraisal, it was agreed
that the value of the latter component would be adjustable depending on the bids received
for the higher priority component for the replacement of a generating unit.

This component did not achieve its objectives since implementation was not completed
for various reasons explained in Section 2.2, including diversion of part of the allocation
to purchase a step-up transformer. It is clear that this diversion had a beneficial effect on
achievement of overall objectives to reduce fuel costs and related dependence on the
Government budget. As explained the materials purchased for Component (ii) will be
utilized in a similar and larger component under the Energy Services Delivery Project.

                               Project Component 3 - $90,000
                      Distribution of energy efficient lamps/light bulbs
                         Award of contract by                              Award of contract
                         November 30, 2004                                 on May 09, 2005

 Number of energy        About 30,000 lamps                                27,600 CFLs

efficient lamps/bulbs    distributed by April       One lot of 50,000      distributed by

      distributed        30, 2005                 Compact Fluorescent      April 30, 2006
                         About 30,000                     Lamps            22,400 CFLs in
                         additional lamps                                  store at EDTL
                         distributed by                                    awaiting
                         September 30, 2005                                distribution
Final Output:
A total of 27,600 CFLs were distributed by April 2006. However, by that time, the civil
unrest had commenced and the distribution was temporarily suspended in May 2006.

This component mostly achieved its objectives. Because of the security situation in Dili,
only 56 percent of the energy efficient bulbs purchased were distributed. However, the
remainder is in stock at EDTL and, as noted above, will be distributed in conjunction with
the proposals of the current MC for tariff adjustments and returning to a user-pay system
which are pending government approval. One indirect outcome of this component was
that electricity consumers in Dili became very conscious of the financial benefits of
energy efficient lighting such that these bulbs became very common in both informal and
formal shops in Dili during the implementation period.

                                Project Component 4 - $2,000
                                         Project audit
                         First Audit: July-                                First Audit: 30
                         August 2005                                       June 2007
    Project Audit        Second Audit: within          Project Audit       Second Audit: 30
                         4 months of project                               December 2008
                         closing date



                                             20

Final Output:
At the time of appraisal, arrangements for project auditing had still not been finalized. It
was therefore decided to allocate funds from the project for this purpose. Eventually,
however, the Government retained auditors to cover all trust fund financed projects. The
last audit report was for the year ended June 30, 2007. With the change in the
Government's financial year the next audit will be carried out for the year ending
December 31, 2008.




                                            21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

I.      Replacement of the generation engine

At the time of project appraisal, the quantified economic benefits of the generation
component included (i) fuel cost savings; (ii) avoided investment cost for a 2nd 4 MW
power plant; and (iii) re-use value of high-speed engines. For the ICR re-estimate of this
project component economics, it has been conservatively assumed to include only fuel
cost savings.

Regarding incremental capital costs, the ICR re-estimate is based on the actual costs for
the supply and installation of the new generation unit and the step-up transformer.

At appraisal, load growth was assumed to be much less than actually occurred2. In the
lower load growth case, the concern was that with a new generator financed by JICA
being installed a year or two after the generator proposed under the project, there might
be a surplus of generation reducing the benefits of the generator engine replacement.
Therefore sensitivity studies were carried out to confirm that the replacement engine was
viable in all circumstances. It was also conservatively assumed that the Ira Lalaro
hydropower project would be commissioned in early 2010. The analysis was based on a
then current fuel cost of $0.382/litre (l).

In actuality, there was considerable variation from these assumptions: (a) the JICA
financed generator was commissioned on schedule in 2005, but the generator financed
under this project was not commissioned until early 2007. Because of the increased load
growth and delayed implementation both machines were fully loaded immediately after
commissioning3. The average diesel oil price over the 10 month period from
commissioning in April, 2007 to January 2008 was approximately $1.1/l.

The average monthly generation of the new generator over the period April, 2007 to
January 2008 (excluding one month for major repair) was 2.62 million kWh per month.
The fuel consumption averaged 0.238 l/kWh in comparison with 0.28 l/kWh for the high
speed generation displaced. This represents a cost saving of 121,000 l/month. The
payback period for this project component is less than 2 years.




2In fact load growth was low until the end of 2005, and then picked up dramatically with
increased foreign presence at the time of civil unrest and with meter bypassing.

3Moreover, four additional high speed (1500 rpm) machines have now been
commissioned to meet peak demand and more have been ordered.



                                             22

The ICR re-estimate has assumed oil prices continue at $1.1/l (roughly equivalent to
$90/bbl of crude oil) until the commissioning of Ira Lalaro in 2014 (again a conservative
assumption).

The PAD did not specify the price terms of the project economics and did not show
detailed year-by-year cash flows. For the ICR re-estimates comparison with the appraisal
estimates, it is assumed that the appraisal estimates were in constant 2004 dollars (the
year of project appraisal). The annual deflation factors assumed were based on the
Manufacturers Unit Value (MUV) Index, expressed in US dollar terms, published by
DECPG in April 2008. Data for the period 2005-2007 were actual, and data for the
period 2008-2013 were projections. Annual MUV index are as follows: 2005: 0%, 2006:
1.6%, 2007: 3.9%, 2008: 6.8%, 2009: 0.7%, 2010: 1,4%, 2011: 0.4%, 2012: 0.5%, 2013:
0.6%, 2013: 0.6%.

ICR Re-estimated project economic cash flows (in constant 2004 dollars)

   Year        Investment costs     Gross Benefits      Net Benefits

  2004
   2005
   2006               181,588                               (181,588)
   2007              1,572,949              917,626         (655,323)
   2008                                   1,288,801        1,288,801
   2009                                   1,279,842        1,279,842
   2010                                   1,262,171        1,262,171
   2011                                   1,257,143        1,257,143
   2012                                   1,250,888        1,250,888
   2013                                   1,243,428        1,243,428



                                         NPV                 $3,851,080
                                         ERR                120%
                                      B/C ratio              2.2

The results of sensitivity analysis indicated that even if the value of fuel oil cost savings
were to be 40% lower than assumed in the base case, NPV(at 10% discount rate, 2005
constant dollars) would be $2.4 million and ERR would be 99 % , which remain
substantially higher than those of the appraisal estimates.

II.    Energy efficient lighting component

The actual cost per CFL was $1.2, representing a reduction of 20 percent against the
appraisal estimate of $1.5.




                                             23

For the calculation of economic benefits, the PAD analysis has been repeated with slight
variation in assumptions for the ICR re-estimate. The fuel cost saving is the benefit
accrued to the country from the use of CFLs. The PAD estimated monthly household
energy reduction of 9.3 kWh per bulb. This is considered a reasonable assumption for
the ICR re-estimate as well. Based on the same fuel cost savings of $1.1/l noted above
for the replacement of engine, the fuel cost savings would amount to $0.275 per kWh and
$2.56 per CFL per month.

For the 27,600 CFLs already distributed under the project, the ICR re-estimates of the
economic cash flows (in constant 2004 dollars) are as follows:

   Year     Investment costs Gross Benefits        Net Benefits

   2004
   2005                 33,120                            (33,120)
   2006                                  834,601         834,601
   2007                                  803,274         803,274
   2008                                  752,129         752,129
   2009                                  746,900         746,900
   2010                                  736,588         736,588
   2011                                  733,654         733,654
   2012                                  730,004         730,004
   2013                                  725,650         725,650



                                       NPV             $3,681,199
                                   B/C ratio               183

However, the above estimates could be considered conservative. With losses at 40%4,
reduction in power generation would actually be 23.25 kWh per bulb. With a marginal
fuel consumption of 0.28 liters/kWh at Comoro (corresponding to the high speed units)
and a fuel cost of $1.20/l, the energy saving of 23.25 kWh per month per bulb translates
into an annual fuel cost saving of $93.75 per bulb. This implies a saving of $2.59
million per year for the actually distributed 27,600 bulbs in comparison with the cost of
$33,120. The benefits will increase by 80% when the remaining 22,400 bulbs are
distributed. The payback period for each bulb is less than one week.

Project Financial Analysis. The PAD noted that the project financial returns are the
same as the project economic return for the replacement of power generation engine
component as the project benefits and costs do not include any taxes or subsidies. Based
on the same reasons, the ICR re-estimate of the project financial return is the same as the
ERR noted above.




4 This was the value before the widespread meter bypassing. Currently it is about 60%.



                                              24

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

Names                  Title                         Unit      Responsibility/
                                                               Specialty
Lending

Barry Trembath         Power Engineer                SASDE     Task Team
                                                               Leader to 01/05

Chrisantha Ratnayake   Consultant                    AFETG     Distribution
                                                               Engineer

Kazim Saeed            Consultant                    SASDE     Energy
                                                               Specialist
Joao Jose Augusto Gomes Operations Officer           EACDF     Operations
Supervision/ICR
Bernard Baratz          Consultant                   ECAVP     Environment

David Michael Chandler Sr Financial Specialist       EAPCO     Financial
                                                               Management

Peter A. Cordukes      Consultant                    EASTE     Management
                                                               Consultant
Joao Jose Augusto Gomes Operations Officer           EACDF     Operations

Eka Zarmen Putra       Consultant                    EASTE     Energy
                                                               Specialist

Kazim M. Saeed         Consultant                    EASTE     Energy
                                                               Specialist
Barry Trembath         Consultant                    SASDE     Power Engineer
Hong Vu                 Sr Operations Off.           EASSO     Social Specialist
                                                               Task Team
Leiping Wang           Sr Energy Specialist          EASTE     Leader ­ to
                                                               12/06
                                                               Task Team
Selina Shum            Senior Financial Analyst      EASTE     Leader ­ to
                                                               12/07
                                                               Task Team
Frederic Asseline      Sr Energy Specialist          EASTE     Leader to
                                                               present

Yuling Zhou            Sr Procurement Specialist     ECSPS     Procurement
                                                               Specialist

Farida Zaituni         Consultant                    EASIS     Environment
                                                               Specialist
                                                               Social
V. Florian Lazaro      Social Development Specialist EASSO     Development
                                                               Specialist




                                      25

Jonas Bautista          Environment Specialist        EASTE        Evironment
                                                                   Specialist

Conrad Holland          Consultant                    EASTE        Environment
                                                                   Specialist

Eric Groom              Senior Regulatory Specialist  EASTE        Regulatory
                                                                   Specialist
Salahuddin Khwaja       Consultant                    EASTE        Power Engineer

Melissa Sanchez         Program Assistant             EASTE        Program
                                                                   Assistant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                             No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                    11                    134.71
  FY05                                     1                      2.36
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00
Total:                                    12                    137.07
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05 (charged to TF023762)
 TFET supervision budget                  10                     59.05

  FY06                                     7                     75.40
  FY07                                    12                     58.05
  FY08                                     5                     72.10
  FY09                                     3                     15.00
Total:                                    37                    279.60




                                      26

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not Applicable




                                    27

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                  28

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Project Objectives

The objective of this project is to improve electricity generation, distribution, and end use
efficiency in Dili. The project consist of the following major components such as a.) The
replacement of the MAK IV engine at Unit No. 5 of Comoro Power Plant. b)
Rehabilitation and extension activities of distribution system of high economic priority in
selected areas, c) Distribution of 50,000 compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) to Dili
customers who are participating in EDTL's pre-payment meter program, and d) Auditing
of project activities, including the provision of technical assistance.

Project Status: Table 1 presents achievements for the three project components:
Indicator           Midterm            Completion Progress as of                 Progress as of
                    Target             Target         End-December 2005          April 2008
Procurement and     Award of           Unit on-line   Bids received but with a   Contract awarded, goods
installation of     contract by                       price considerably         delivered, installed,
goods under Part    November                          exceeding budget. Re-      tested and commissioned
A of the Project    2004                              bidding launched,          April 2007. Unit no. 5
                                                      evaluation of bids         (Caterpillar) is now in
                                                      completed, and             operation at almost 8000
                                                      alternative bids           hrs. Unit scheduled for
                                                      considered to be most      8k hrs maintenance on
                                                      responsive                 April 26 to May 6, 2008.
Procurement and     Goods              Installation   Bid documents delayed,     Bid launched, evaluation
installation of     procured by        completed      pending resolution of the  completed, contract
goods under Part    April 2005                        price for Part A           awarded, goods
B of the Project                                                                 delivered & installed.

Number of           About 30,000       About 30,000   Bids received, contract    About 30,000 CFLs
Lamps               lamps              additional     awarded, goods             distributed
distributed         distributed by     lamps          delivered. Distribution to
                    April 2005         distributed    prepaid customers
                                                      started.


Amendment to the Grant Agreement

The Government requested an amendment to the Grant Agreement that will allow
extension of project closing date from April 2007 to January 2008. The amendment will
also allow the required redistribution of the grant allocation to each project category:

           Project components                      Previous allocation       Amended allocation (US
                                                         (US $)                           $)
A. Enhancement of the Comoro power plant                        1,000,000                          1,000,000
B. Rehabilitation of electricity distribution                     298,000                            285,000
C. Distribution of CFL to EDTL customers                           90,000                            103,000
D. Consultancy service ­ Audit Report                               2,000                              2,000
Total                                                           1,390,000                          1,390,000




                                                     29

The amendment is also required for the Government to purchase additional energy-
efficient lamps (CFLs) that will be distributed to EDTL customers in order to reduce peak
demand to the Comoro power plant and the districts power plants, as well as to encourage
EDTL customers the usage of energy-efficient lamps. In the amended Grant Agreement,
EDTL could distribute up to 4 CFLs to all customers.

Project Component Updates

A. Replacement of MAK 4 engine:

    The replacement of the MAK 4 engine has been delayed mainly because the result of
    the previous bidding was unsatisfactory (the lowest bidding price was far above
    EdTL's US$ 1.0 million budget which was based on the cost estimates under 2002
    market conditions). It was then decided by the government and agreed by the Bank
    that a re-bidding process with more flexible technical specification should be
    undertaken. At the same time, US$ 0.325 million additional funds were requested by
    the Government and agreed by the donors for the project, however subsequent
    amendments to the Grant Agreement did not include additional funds. The EDTL bid
    evaluation committee for the second round completed the bid evaluation process in
    November 2005. Two of the three bids were rejected as non-responsive to the
    mandatory requirements of the bidding documents. The third bid (TUSSPL) was
    deemed the only one fully compliant with the mandatory requirements of the bidding
    documents. Although TUSSPL's base bid was the lowest evaluated bid, its bid price
    was found to be 90 percent higher than the budget. The committee decided to
    consider the four alternative bids submitted by TUSSPL and concluded that this
    would not disadvantage the other two non-responsive bidders. Therefore, after the
    examination of TUSSPL's alternative bids, the evaluation committee recommended
    that TUSSPL's Alternative 2 (a CATD3616 4.7 MW new diesel genset, max rpm
    1000, specific fuel consumption 186g/kWh, luboil consumption 0.486g/kWh, at
    $1,685,756 or a specific cost of US$358.7/kW) be accepted and the contract be
    awarded to TUSSPL to supply and install Alternative Bid No. 2 including the new
    generator and auxiliaries at Comoro Power Plant.

In view of the budget shortfall for this recommendation, the Government of Timor-Leste
has decided to provide co-financing in the amount of US$700,000 for the following
reasons:

    (i)     The high cost of the base bid compared to the budget (over 90 percent)
            considering that only the engine (not the entire genset) would be new,
    (ii)    Under Alternative 2, the engine, generator, and auxiliaries are all new,
    (iii)   The delivery schedule (150 days) is 50 percent less than that for the base bid,
    (iv)    The rated power output of Alternative 2 is at least 1.8MW more than the base
            bid and the other three alternatives presented. But, in spite of the increase in
            the power output, the specific cost of Alternative 2 in US$/kW is 44 percent
            lower than the base bid and 29 to 39 percent lower than the other alternatives,




                                             30

    (v)     Alternative 2 will represent significant fuel cost savings compared to the other
            alternatives. For example, compared with Alternative 1, the recommended
            option will provide 2.5MW more. Over a one year period, this additional
            2.5MW would generate the equivalent of 15,000MWh at 6,000 hours. With an
            expected reduction of heat rate from 0.27 to 0.18 liters/kWh, there would be a
            fuel savings of 90 liters/MWh representing 1.35 million liters. At a cost per
            liter of US$0.62, this would generate a savings of US$837,000. Therefore, it
            would be possible to recover the additional investment in Alternative 2 within
            one year period.

The Bank team is, in principle, in agreement with this approach to the MAK4
procurement. However, it had reservations about the environmental aspects of Alternative
2, namely: (a) the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) originally drafted for this
procurement process was developed with the MAK4 engine's specification, and (b) the
concern on the relatively high NOx emissions of the Alternative 2 genset. However,
based on the supply contract, the new engine has significantly lower SO2 and PM
emissions than the levels specified in the EMP. While the supply contract indicates a
higher NOx concentration at stack exhaust than the one specified in the EMP, this should
not be a concern.

The supply, installation and commissioning of the caterpillar unit CAT D3816 model was
awarded to Trakindo Utama Services (S) Pte Ltd (TUSSPL).

Commissioning and Performance test evaluation of the Cat D3616 Genset

Complete performance test has been conducted and performed for the unit and has
satisfactorily complied and pass according to caterpillar manufacturers standard and
EDTL specification. The unit was handed over to EDTL in May 2007.

Performance of the Comoro Power Plant

The Comoro plant produced electricity of about 20 MW on February 2008; some are
produced by 4 new Cummins engine. The operation capacity performance of the Comoro
plant has increased from 12 MW in December 2006 to around 21 MW in February 2008
and 16.1 MW in March, 2008. Below is Table 2 showing operating rates of each unit in
various dates.




                                             31

                                       TABLE 2

                                               as of Oct as of 01  as of 10
                       Nameplate     Dec 2006  18, 2007  February,  March,
 Engine        Year                  operating             2008                 Status as of
             Installed Capacity  RPM           operating            2008
                         (KW)        ratings             operating            March 10, 2008
                                      (kW)     ratings             operating
                                                (kW)      ratings
                                                           (kW)    ratings
                                                                    (kW)
                                                                             Overhaul
                                                                             scheduled to
                                                                             commence June
                                                                             17 for completion
  Mak 1                                                                      on July 29. Turbo
   (G01)       1985      2,650   600  1,300     1,700        0        0      and pump
                                                                             problems April 8,
                                                                             Fdr 1 shed. Pump
                                                                             replaced on April
                                                                             9.
                                                                             Overhaul
                                                                             scheduled to
                                                                             commence to
                                                                             commence May
  Mak 2                                                             1,200    6, Completion on
   (G02)       1985      2,650   600  1,300     1,000      1,200             June 17. Parts
                                                                             shipments to
                                                                             commence in
                                                                             early April.

                                                                             Niigata indicated
                                                                             that this unit
                                                                             received a major
                                                                             overhaul in 2003.
 Niigata 1                                                          1,700
   (G03)       1988      4,240   429  2,000       0        1,700             Investigate and
                                                                             revisit
                                                                             replacement
                                                                             versus overhaul
                                                                             for 2009.
                                                                             Overhaul
                                                                             scheduled to
                                                                             commence July
                                                                             29 for completion
                                                                             August 26. World
  Mak 3
   (G04)       1994      2,940   600  1,400     2,200      2,200    2200     Bank proposal
                                                                             delivered to WB
                                                                             on April 7, for the
                                                                             radiator as per
                                                                             their guidelines.

 G05 Cat
  3616D
  (2007)
Status - In                                                                  Commence

 Service       Feb                                                           proposal and
               2007      4,700          0       4,600      4,200    4200
  Plans -                                                                    issuance of

16,000 hour                                                                  contract.

mtce in q4 -
   2008
                                                                             Niigata Operating
 Niigata 2                                                          2500     at reduced load of
   (G06)       2005      4,167   600  3,700     4,000      3,900             2-2.5 MW due to
                                                                             turbo damage.



                                             32

                                             as of Oct as of 01  as of 10
                    Nameplate      Dec 2006  18, 2007  February,  March,
 Engine     Year                   operating             2008                 Status as of
          Installed Capacity  RPM            operating            2008
                      (KW)         ratings             operating            March 10, 2008
                                    (kW)     ratings             operating
                                              (kW)      ratings
                                                         (kW)    ratings
                                                                  (kW)
                                                                           Approximately
                                                                           $200 K required
                                                                           to go to 24 K
                                                                           overhaul. Turbo
                                                                           "B" has
                                                                           significant
                                                                           damage, restrict
                                                                           load to 2-2.5
                                                                           MW. Expedite
                                                                           O/H dependent
                                                                           on turbo parts.
                                                                           Replacement of
                                                                           auxiliary
                                                                           transformer
                                                                           scheduled for
                                                                           April.
  Mak 4     1995     2,940    600     0         0          0        0
                                                                           Establish service
                                                                           intervals. Filters
                                                                           at 250 hours, oil
Cummmins
  (G07)     2002      1,005   1500    0         0        650       700     change at 500
                                                                           hours.
                                                                           Arrange
                                                                           overhaul.
                                                                           Supplier is
                                                                           building a new
                                                                           panel in
                                                                           Surabaya.
                                                                           Technicians
                                                                           arrived April 6.
Cummmins
  (G 08)    2002      1,005   1500    0         0        800        0      Control panel
                                                                           installed April 9.
                                                                           Establish service
                                                                           intervals. Filters
                                                                           at 250 hours, oil
                                                                           change at 500
                                                                           hours.
                                                                           Awaiting control
                                                                           parts from
                                                                           supplier.
                                                                           Technicians
                                                                           arrived April 6,
                                                                           no progress to
                                                                           date.
Cummmins
  (G 09)    2002      1,005   1500    0         0          0        0      Establish service
                                                                           intervals. Filters
                                                                           at 250 hours, oil
                                                                           change at 500
                                                                           hours.
                                                                           Relocate control
                                                                           panel to a safer
                                                                           location.
                                                                           Establish service
Cummmins*
  (G10)     2002      1,005   1500    0         0        800       750     intervals. Filters
                                                                           at 250 hours, oil



                                           33

                                                        as of Oct   as of 01   as of 10
                      Nameplate            Dec 2006     18, 2007   February,   March,
  Engine       Year                        operating                 2008                     Status as of
            Installed  Capacity    RPM                 operating                2008
                         (KW)               ratings                operating                 March 10, 2008
                                             (kW)       ratings               operating
                                                         (kW)       ratings
                                                                     (kW)      ratings
                                                                                (kW)
                                                                                           change at 500
                                                                                           hours.
                                                                                           Establish service
                                                                                           intervals. Filters
                                                                                           at 250 hours, oil
Cummmins
  (G11)        2002      1,005     1500        0           0          650        650       change at 500
                                                                                           hours.


                                                                                           Establish service
                                                                                           intervals. Filters
Cummmins                                                                                   at 250 hours, oil
  (G12)        2002      1,005     1500      650          600         700        600       change at 500
                                                                                           hours.

                                                                                            Establish service
                                                                                            intervals Filters
Cummmins                                                                                    at 250 hours, oil
  (G13)        2000      1,005     1500      650          600         650        800        change at 500
                                                                                            hours.

                                                                                            Establish service
                                                                                            intervals Filters
Cummmins                                                                                    at 250 hours, oil
  (G14)        2000      1,005     1500      700          500          0         800
                                                                                            change at 500
                                                                                            hours.

                                                                                           Minimal
                                                                                           information is
                                                                                           available to date.
               For                                                                         First 2 units due

             delivery                                                                      to arrive mid May
                                                                                           with the rest to
Proposed       2008                                                                        follow later in the
New Units                4,800     1500                                                    following months,
G15-G20                                                                                    probably will not
                                                                                           be available till
                                                                                           July. Technician
                                                                                           on site Mar 30
                                                                                           checking on the
                                                                                           single line
                                                                                           diagram.

  TOTAL                 32,327              11,700       15,200     20,450     16,100



*Approximately 1400 KW unavailable from new units. Average availability of these units has been
extremely poor. Two units have been out of service for the entire month of March with little or no response
from the supplier.

Performance of the GO5- Caterpillar Unit Model 4700 EKW CAT D3616 Engine

From April 2007 up to January 2008 the maximum daily load increases up to 22% from
13.4 MW to 17.4 MW. The table below summarizes the monthly maximum peak load
from April 2007 to January 2008 in the Dili system.


                                                   34

                                                
                             Table 3 Maximum daily load (KW)

                                      2007                                          2008 

 Peak load    April   May       June  July      August    Sept     Oct   Nov    Dec      Jan 

                                                                                          
                                                                          1313
 Day          11494   11856  11878      10636    11459    11331   10889      6   12537  10812 
                                                                          1583
 Night        13456   14003  14649      14224    14940    15033   14352      3   16307  17392 

                                                                                          


The caterpillar Cat D3616 has performed satisfactorily ever since it was commissioned
last April 2007. It has a total production of accumulation of 28.7 million KW-Hr from
April 2007 up to March 2008. Table 4 shows the monthly production in kilowatt hour of
the caterpillar CAT D3616. The unit is due for 8000 hour maintenance schedule from
April 26 to May 6, 2008 and this will surely again affect substantially the generation
capacity of the Comoro Power Plant.

           Table 4- MONTHLY PRODUCTION IN KW-HR GO5 CAT D3616




Last November 2007, the caterpillar unit encountered some operational problem which
resulted to one month repair by the Caterpillar manufacturer. Dili's Power supply
capacity was greatly affected and resulted again to the city's brownout and load shedding.
Upon inspection of the manufacturer on 26th and 27th of October 2007, it was found out
that the engine had sustained damage to the cylinder number four cam follower/camshaft.
Resultant damage to the cylinder block has occurred after the initial failure. The failure
required the service of the Caterpillar specialist (under warranty period) for one month
before it was put back into operation.

The caterpillar performance has reached the highest availability of 81.36% last 2007 and
up to 99.35 % for the year 2008 (January up to March, 2008). The unit consume about an


                                              35

average of diesel fuel o 4.3 to 4.5 KW-Hr per liter and an average lube oil consumption
of about 4.5 KW-hr per liter. The unit has reached an operational hour of 55,370 hrs from
April to December, 2007 and about 6600 hrs from January to April 2008.

B. Distribution Rehabilitation in Dili:

The objective for this component is to improve service quality and reduce losses through
reinforcement and rehabilitation of the Dili System, which today suffers a high level of
losses. The technical and non-technical losses in the Dili distribution system are still as
high as 50% of total electricity generated. The rehabilitation of low voltage distribution
network in some part of the city is urgently needed. A project implementation plan
including a timeline and a list of distribution materials for reducing losses through
distribution system rehabilitation under this component was completed in early 2005.
However, the final project scope could not be defined because it was not clear how much
financial resources would be available for this component due to the delay of MAK IV
engine procurement.

Both EdTL and the Bank mission agreed that the issues of low reliability and high losses
of low voltage distribution network in Dili should be further addressed in the Energy
Services Delivery Project (ESDP) and in a systematic way. This component, however,
was not fully implemented except the procurement of conductors through ICB process.

Based on EdTL request, the Bank approved to support the establishment of a small
technical unit within the company to plan and design future loss reduction projects
including preparation of a Dili Loss Reduction Component for the Energy Services
Delivery Project. The unit was funded by PHRD project for preparation of the proposed
ESDP.

C. Distribution of Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs):

The procurement of CFLs has been completed. About 30,000 CFLs have been distributed
free of charge to EDTL customers who have acquired pre-payment meters. The Grant
Agreement was amended to allow wider distribution of the remaining CFLs for other
EDTL customers outside Dili.




                                              36

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                    37

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank, Power Sector Priority Investments Project (PSPIP): Project Appraisal
Document, Report No. 29562-TP, July 30, 2004.

The World Bank, Energy Services Delivery Project (ESDP): Project Appraisal
Document, Report No. 39717-TP, June 7, 2007.

Trust Fund for East Timor, Grant Agreement, Power Sector Priority Investment Project,
Grant Number TF053898-TP, April 1, 2005.

       Trust Fund for East Timor, Grant Agreement Amendment 1, dated 21 March
       2006: Extending the closing date from 31 March 2006 to 31 March 2007.

       Trust Fund for East Timor, Grant Agreement Amendment 2, dated 29 March
       2007: Extending the closing date from 31 March 2007 to 31 January 2008.

       Trust Fund for East Timor, Grant Agreement Amendment 3, dated 29 January
       2008: Final extension of project closing date from 31 January 2008 to 30 March
       2008.

The World Bank, PSPIP, Mission Aide-Memoires and Implementation Status and Results
Reports, June 2004 to June 2008.

The World Bank, PSPIP Procurement Documents including Contracts for 1) Supply and
Installation of Step-up Transformer, 2) Supply and Installation of a Diesel generator Set
(4,7MW CAT D3616), 3) Supply of Conductors, 4) Lot of 50,000 Compact Fluorescent
Lamps, World Bank Project File.

Wilson Cook & Co., Performance Review of EDTL Management Contract and
Preparation of Terms of reference for new Management Contract, Recommendations for
New Contract, January 2007.

Republic of Timor-Leste, Ministry of Infrastructure (MOI), Implementation Completion
Report, Power Sector Priority Investment project, TF0533898, April 29, 2008.




                                           38

