DOCUMENT OF
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
Report No. 25126
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
SDR 9.1 MILLION
(US $ 12.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
NOVEMBER 20, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rates:
Currency Unit: Guyana Dollar
1999: $US 1.00 = $G177.6
2000: $US1.00 = $G182.6
2001: $US1.00 = $G189.5
November 8, 2002: $US 1.00 = $G180.0
SDR1.00 = US$ 1.337 (Nov. 8, 2002)
Acronyms
APL            Adaptable Program Loan
BNTF           Basic Needs Trust Fund
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDB            Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CFAA           Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR           Country Procurement Assessment Report
CTB            Central Tender Board
DFID           Department For International Development (UK aid)
EU             European Union
GNCB           Guyana National Cooperative Bank
GOINVEST       Guyana Office of Investment
GS&WC          Georgetown Sewer and Water Company
GUYSUCO        Guyana Sugar Corporation
GUYWA          Guyana Water Authority
HIPC           Highly Indebted Poor Countries (program of debt relief)
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IMF            International Monetary Fund
LG             Local Government
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
NDC            Neighborhood Democratic Council
NPTB           National Procurement and Tender Board
OAG            Office of the Auditor General
PCPMU          Policy Coordination and Program Management Unit
PRGF           Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (IMF)
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC           Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSTAC          Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (IDA)
RDC            Regional Democratic Council
SIMAP          Social Impact Amelioration Program
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
Vice President            David De Ferranti
Country Director          Orzalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Directors          Danny Leipziger, Ernesto May
Co-Team Leaders           John H. Stein, Norman Hicks



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Guyana
Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Program Document
Table of Contents
Credit and Program Summary                                                       ii
I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRESS IN POVERTY REDUCTION                 2
II. PROVIDING SUPPORT TO GUYANA'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY                      5
PRSP Objective: Broad Based, Job Generating Economic Growth                    6
Macroeconomic management                                                6
Sugar Industry                                                          6
Mining                                                                  8
Forestry                                                                8
PRSP Objective: Better Investments in Human Capital                            8
Health                                                                  8
Education                                                              10
PRSP Objective: Improved Social Safety Nets                                    11
PRSP Objective: Stronger Public Sector Institutions and Better
Governance                                        12
National Government                                                     12
Accountability, Financial Management                                   13
Procurement Reform                                                      15
Local Government Reform                                                 16
PRSP Objective: Broader and Better Provision of Basic Services                 18
Water                                                                   18
III. IDA GROUP STRATEGY                                                           19
IV. TH-rE PROPOSED CREDIT                                                         20
Disbursement, Procurement and Audit                                    23
Environmental Assessment                                               24
Benefits                                                                26
Annexes                                                                           29
This Poverty Reduction Support Credit was prepared by a team led by Norman Hicks and John H. Stein, and
included Judy Baker (safety nets, M&E, PSIA), John Bloomquist (safety nets), David Cassells/ George LeDec
(environment, forestry), Pilar Gonzalez (counsel), James Droop (water/sugar), Salim Hayabeb (HIV/AIDS),
Vladimir Jadrijevic/ Enzo De Laurentiis (procurement), Tracey Marie Lane/David Sislen (public sector),
Haeduck Lee (statistical reform), Keith McLean (local government), Hideki Mori (education), Patti Petesch
(monitoring and evaluation), Navin Rai/Loretta Sprissler (indigenous people), Jed Shilling (projections), Carlos
Sobrado (surveys), Jamil Sopher/Rajeev Kumar Swami (CFAA). The work benefited from the guidance of
Bernard Becq, Francoise Bentchikou, Jorge Guzman (IMF), Sanjay Kathuria, Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, Auguste
Kouame, Ali Khadr, Patricio Marquez, Ferenc Molnar, Camille Nuamah, Frederick Nunes, Reynaldo Pastor,
Chris Parel, Jyoti Shukla and Juan Quintero.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






GUYANA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMVARY
Borrower:             Cooperative Republic of Guyana
Amount and Terms:     SDR 9.1 million (about $12.0 million) on standard IDA terms; 3/4 of
1% service charge, 10 year grace, 30 year repayment; commitment fee
of .5 % on undisbursed balances.
Description:          The proposed credit provides support for the implementation of
Guyana's Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSP), and is envisaged as a
first of a possible series of PRSCs. It has been carefully coordinated
with the IMF and other donors. It incorporates work done on financial
accountability (CFAA) and procurement (CPAR), and includes a
Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA). The implementation of
the credit will be assisted by an accompanying Public Sector Technical
Assistance Credit (PSTAC). The principal reforms supported by this
Credit include:
* Support for the implementation of a new education sector
strategy;
* An expanded effort to combat HIV/AIDS;
* Reforms in the public sector, covering procurement and financial
management;
* Tax reform, including improvements in local government tax
administration;
* Reforns in the water sector, including the introduction of private
management, increasing efficiency and water quality, and
expanding service to poorer communities.
* Restructuring of the sugar sector, including investments designed
to lower costs, reduction in redundant workers, and
increased productivity.
Benefits and Risks:  Benefits:The actions supported through the PRSC constitute the
overarching reforms aimed at reducing poverty in Guyana and
providing public services to the poorest segments of the Guyanese
population. The PRSC will have direct benefits to the poor by freeing
up resources now being used to subsidize the sugar and bauxite
sectors, to be directed to services in health, education, and basic
infrastructure. Other reforms will enhance the efficiency and delivery
of public services, especially to the poor, by improving the
ii



transparency and accountability of government. In addition, reforms
in governance and government regulation of key sectors (mining,
forestry) will continue to improve the climate for private investment
and prospects for economic growth..
Risks. The present operation, which implies the launching of a series
of poverty-oriented adjustment credits, necessarily entails a high level
of risk, given the present economic and political situation in the
country. The main risks, are judged to arise from:
* Rising crime and violence, and a political system deeply divided
along racial lines, which could divert attention away from the
critical  policy/structural  reform  agenda  and  PRSP
implementation.
* Limited implementation capacity, and highly centralized decision-
making, raises the risk that the Government will not be able to
carry out the reforms envisaged in the PRSP and under the
PRSCs.
* Shortage of extemal resources may constrain the Government's
ability to reach the goals of the PRSP.
* Heavy dependence on a few export products (rice, bauxite, gold,
sugar) whose future outlook is uncertain, which raises the risk
that the growth and poverty reduction targets may not be
reached.
* Additional large wage demands by the public sector unions, which
could cause a diversion of resources from critical programs and
projects associated with sustainable poverty reduction
To mitigate these risks, IDA will continue to work closely with the
donor community and civil society in assisting the Government to stay
the course on the reform agenda, and to use donor assistance to redress
social concems through improved governance and strengthened key
institutions. The parallel PSTAC by IDA, complementing the
intensive efforts of other donors, will also provide resources for
technical assistance for institutional development that will be essential
for successful implementation of the PRSC.
Poverty Category:    The credit supports Guyana's overall strategy of poverty reduction.
Estimated Disbursements: FY03 SDR 9.1 million, in a single tranche.
Project Number:         PE-P073851



Guyana
Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Program Document
Table of Contents
Credit and Program Summary                                                      ii
I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRESS IN POVERTY REDUCTION                 2
II. PROVIDING SUPPORT TO GUYANA'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY                      5
PRSP Objective: Broad Based, Job Generating Economic Growth                   6
Macroeconomic management                                               6
Sugar Industry                                                         6
Mining                                                                 8
Forestry                                                               8
PRSP Objective: Better Investments in Human Capital                           8
Health                                                                 8
Education                                                              10
PRSP Objective: Improved Social Safety Nets                                   11
PRSP Objective: Stronger Public Sector Institutions and Better
Governance                                       12
National Government                                                    12
Accountability, Financial Management                                   13
Procurement Reform                                                     15
Local Government Reform                                                16
PRSP Objective: Broader and Better Provision of Basic Services                18
Water                                                                  18
Im. IDA GROUP STRATEGY                                                           19
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDrr                                                          20
Disbursement, Procurement and Audit                                    23
Environmental Assessment                                               24
Benefits                                                               26
Annexes                                                                          29
This Poverty Reduction Support Credit was prepared by a team led by Norman Hicks and John H. Stein, and
included Judy Baker (safety nets, monitoring and evaluation), John Bloomquist (safety nets), David Cassells
(forestry), Pilar Gonzalez (counsel), James Droop (water/sugar), Salim Hayabeb (HIV/AIDS), Vladimir
Jadrijevic (procurement)., George LeDec (environment), Tracey Marie Lane (public sector), Haeduck Lee
(statistical reform), Keith McLean (local government), Hideki Mori (education), Patti Petesch (monitoring and
evaluation), Jed Shilling (projections), Carlos Sobrado (surveys), Jamil Sopher (CFAA), and Rajeev Kumar
Swami (CFAA). The work benefited from the guidance of Bernard Becq, Francoise Bentchikou, Sanjay
Kathuria, Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, Auguste Kouame, Ali Khadr, Jyoti Shukla, Enzo de Laurentiis, Patricio
Marquez, Ferenc Molnar, Camille Nuamah, Frederick Nunes, Reynaldo Pastor, Chris Parel, and Juan Quintero.



GUYANA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Cooperative Republic of Guyana
Amount and Terms:     SDR 9.1 million (about $12.0 million) on standard IDA terms; 3/4 of
1% service charge, 10 year grace, 30 year repayment; commitment fee
of .5 % on undisbursed balances.
Description:         The proposed credit provides support for the implementation of
Guyana's Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSP), and is envisaged as a
first of a possible series of PRSCs. It has been carefully coordinated
with the IMF and other donors. It incorporates work done on financial
accountability (CFAA) and procurement (CPAR), and includes a
Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA). The implementation of
the credit will be assisted by an accompanying Public Sector Technical
Assistance Credit (PSTAC). The principal reforms supported by this
Credit include:
* Support for the implementation of a new education sector
strategy;
* An expanded effort to combat HlV/AIDS;
* Reforms in the public sector, covering procurement and financial
management;
* Tax reform, including improvements in local govemment tax
administration;
* Reforms in the water sector, including the introduction of private
management, increasing efficiency and water quality, and
expanding service to poorer communities.
* Restructuring of the sugar sector, including investments designed
to lower costs, reduction in redundant workers, and
increased productivity.
Benefits and Risks:  Benefits:The actions supported through the PRSC constitute the
overarching reforms aimed at reducing poverty in Guyana and
providing public services to the poorest segments of the Guyanese
population. The PRSC will have direct benefits to the poor by freeing
up resources now being used to subsidize the sugar and bauxite
sectors, to be directed to services in health, education, and basic
infrastructure. Other reforms will enhance the efficiency and delivery
of public services, especially to the poor, by improving the
ii



transparency and accountability of government. In addition, reforms
in governance and government regulation of key sectors (mining,
forestry) will continue to improve the climate for private investment
and prospects for economic growth..
Risks. The present operation, which implies the launching of a series
of poverty-oriented adjustment credits, necessarily entails a high level
of risk, given the present economic and political situation in the
country. The main risks, are judged to arise from:
* Rising crime and violence, and a political system deeply divided
along racial lines, which could divert attention away from the
critical  policy/structural  reform  agenda  and  PRSP
implementation.
* Limited implementation capacity, and highly centralized decision-
making, raises the risk that the Government will not be able to
carry out the reforms envisaged in the PRSP and under the
PRSCs.
* Shortage of external resources may constrain the Government's
ability to reach the goals of the PRSP.
* Heavy dependence on a few export products (rice, bauxite, gold,
sugar) whose future outlook is uncertain, which raises the risk
that the growth and poverty reduction targets may not be
reached.
* Additional large wage demands by the public sector unions, which
could cause a diversion of resources from critical programs and
projects associated with sustainable poverty reduction
To mitigate these risks, IDA will continue to work closely with the
donor community and civil society in assisting the Government to stay
the course on the reform agenda, and to use donor assistance to redress
social concerns through improved governance and strengthened key
institutions. The parallel PSTAC by IDA, complementing the
intensive efforts of other donors, will also provide resources for
technical assistance for institutional development that will be essential
for successful implementation of the PRSC.
Poverty Category:    The credit supports Guyana's overall strategy of poverty reduction.
Estimated Disbursements: FY03 SDR 9.1 million, in a single tranche.
Project Number:         PE-P073851






PROGRAM DocuMENT
GUYANA: POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT-I
1. This program document outlines a proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) for
Guyana, for about US$12 million equivalent (SDR 9.1 million) , which provides support for
Guyana's Poverty Reduction Strategy. The Guyana Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP)was approved by the Board on September 19, 2002. It is the first operation in a series
of PRSCs over the next several years that would provide fast-disbursing support for the
implementation of its poverty reduction strategy and associated institutional and policy reform
program. The rationale for a programmatic approach to assistance to Guyana is outlined in the
CAS which was discussed by the Board on September 19, 2002 (Report No. 24073-GUA). In
addition, a companion Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC) for about US$4.8
million equivalent, will provide technical support for PRSP implementation and institutional
strengthening in key areas.
2. The reforms supported under this operation aim to help reduce poverty by improving
prospects for growth and investment, enhancing the Government's ability to deliver social
services, and reforming the public sector through improved efficiency, transparency and
accountability, all within a framework of sound macroeconomic management and fiscal
responsibility.
3. The medium term reforms supported by the PRSC program are contained in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex I) and reflected in the multiyear matrix of
policy and institutional reforms for a three year program of poverty reduction credits (Annex
II), and benchmark indicators. In addition, an agreed set of monitorable indicators will be used
to judge the level of progress toward PRSP goals (see Table 2). Annex HI contains an analysis
of the poverty and social impact of the program, focusing mainly on PRSC-I, while Annex IV
shows how the PRSC aligns with the PRSP goals, and other donor support.
Guyana's Poverty Reduction Strategy
4. The recently completed PRSP builds on on-going work, including the comprehensive
National Development Strategy that had been developed starting in 1993, and which has been
sent to the Parliament for approval. This strategy itself was based on an initial round of
consultations, and formed the basis for the I-PRSP which was developed by the Government
and discussed by the Board of the World Bank in November 2000. The I-PRSP was then
followed by an extensive consultation process which involved discussions in groups at the
local, regional and national levels. These discussions were open to all groups in society, and
included women, youth, and indigenous people, as well as the two major ethnic groups. In all,
over 200 consultations were held involving over 8,000 people. I The findings from these
discussions were incorporated into a draft PRSP, which was further discussed at a national
level consultation in November 2001. The PRSP reflects the inputs received through the
X With a population estimated at about 800,000, this implies a coverage of about 1% of the population,
considerably higher than in most other PRSP countries
1



consultation process, and as a result, gives greater emphasis to such fundamental concerns as
employment, governance -- especially local government -- and the adequate provision of basic
services.
5. The Poverty Reduction Strategy of Guyana is focused on seven strategic pillars These are:
*  Broad-based, jobs-generating economic growth;
* Environmental protection;
* Stronger institutions and better governance;
*  Investment in human capital, with emphasis on basic education and health;
*  Investment in physical capital;
* Improved safety nets; and
*  Special intervention programs to address regional pockets of poverty.
6. Based on the issues raised in the consultation process, the PRSP places heavy emphasis on
the need to improve governance and public sector accountability, particularly at the local
government level. It calls for expanded spending on basic social services, including primary
health care, primary and secondary education, water and sanitation and housing. As economic
growth remains essential to poverty reduction, the PRSP places emphasis on increasing public
sector efficiency inertia through institutional, policy and regulatory reforms, re-orienting the
public sector to support private sector investment and improving infrastructure to complement
economic growth. In the social sectors. the emphasis is on access and equity. In education, the
priority is on improving the quality of education, and the conditions of service of teachers, by
reducing overcrowding and providing targeted subsidies to the poor. In health, priority actions
will include increasing access to quality health care by the poor, improving the conditions of
service of health care personnel, and taking measures to reduce the prevalence and incidence
of HIV/AIDS and malnutrition.
I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRESS IN POVERTY REDUCTION
7. In 1989, Guyana embarked upon an Economic Recovery Program, marking a dramatic
reversal from a state-controlled, socialist economy of the past, towards a more open, free-
market oriented system. The key tenets of the reform program included: (i) liberalization of
the economy; (ii) privatization of several state-owned industries, including most banks,
factories, and the power sector; (iii) a reduction in the size of the public sector; and (iv)
expanded spending for social services including social investment programs aimed to soften
the social impact of the structural reforms. Economic results through 1997 were encouraging -
GDP grew at more than 7% per year and the rate of poverty decreased by eight percentage
points between 1992 and 1999. This period of expansion ended in 1998, when the economy
contracted 1.7%, as a combined effect of civil disturbances, a delayed recovery of agriculture
from the adverse weather conditions of the previous year, and lower prices for the main
commodity exports. Growth returned in 1999 as strong performances in the sugar and rice
industries helped to offset weaker mining output, lifting GDP growth to 3.0%. However,
continued terms of trade deterioration, floods and political/social unrest resulted in a further
decline in 2000 (-1.4%), followed by a weak recovery in 2001 (1.4%).
2



8. Macro/Fiscal Performance. The Economic Recovery Program (ERP), designed to
eliminate market distortions and foster trade and investment, enabled the Government to
access the external funding necessary to refinance accumulated debt arrears, thus restoring
Guyana's international creditworthiness. Starting in 1990, the Government negotiated a series
of support agreements with the IMF, including arrangements under the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). In addition,
Guyana received US$256 million (NPV) in debt relief under HIPC-1 in May 1999.
9. Large fiscal deficits which persisted during the 1980s, were largely reversed under the
ERP. The restructuring of the state sector substantially reduced transfers from the Treasury,
debt rescheduling and relief lowered interest payments, and government expenditures were
tightened. The overall public-sector deficit fell to 3% of GDP by 1996, from 21% of GDP in
1993, notwithstanding a 2% of GDP increase in central government capital expenditure over
the period.
10. Since 1997, the fiscal deficit has widened, reaching 5.5% of GDP in 2000 and 6.8% in
2001. Despite higher revenues, rising deficits reflect both higher capital spending and very
high wage adjustments that the Government was required, by the courts, to give to public
sector workers. In 2001, large revenue shortfalls (because of tax exemptions and weak
economic performance) were only partly offset by lower spending. Despite the higher deficits,
inflation remains modest, averaging about 6% per year during 1998-2000 and only 2.7% in
2001 (consumer prices). The ability to moderate inflation reflects, in part, the fact that a large
share of the financing of the deficits came from external resource flows, thus limiting the
amount of monetary expansion.
II. International Monetary Fund (IMF) Relations. Guyana had an existing Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement with the IMF which expired at the end of
2001. Weak performance under the PRGF arrangement was a result of a number of factors,
including adverse external developments, internal disturbances, and policy slippages. Political
and social unrest after the March 2001 elections limited the Government's ability to introduce
new policy measures, and falling prices for sugar and rice reduced export revenues.
Production problems in the state-owned sugar and bauxite sectors reduced government
revenues as well. Negotiations leading to a new PRGF were completed in April 2002, and the
new arrangement for about SDR 54.55 million (about US$72 million) was approved by the
Fund's Board in September 2002.
12. Structural Reforms. Since 1998, Guyana has continued to make substantial progress in
implementing structural reforms. These reforms focused on strengthening the financial
system, the privatization of public enterprises, trade liberalization, and improvements in tax
administration and the budget process. With technical assistance from the World Bank and
the IMF, the Bank of Guyana has strengthened supervision of the financial system and has
adopted a legal framework for securities trading. The authorities have restructured and
privatized most public enterprises. Guyana Airways, the Guyana Electricity Company and a
pharmaceutical company were privatized in 1999, and Guyana Stores was privatized in 2000.
The state-owned bank Guyana National Cooperative Bank (GNCB) was put up for sale in
2002 for the second time, under improved terms, and a number of bids have been received. In
2000, a new revenue authority was made operational, combining the Inland Revenue and
3



Customs and Excise departments, which has strengthened tax administration and revenue
collection. The final phase of the Common External Tariff was implemented, reducing the
maximum import duty to 20 percent (40 percent for agricultural items).
13. In the social sectors, overall spending has increased from 8½ percent of GDP in 1997 to
ll2 percent of GDP in 1999. Considerable progress has been made in strengthening
education, including a stepped-up program of teacher training, and the rehabilitation and
construction of primary and secondary schools. In the health area, progress has been more
limited, although health spending did increase and the Ministry of Health has been
reorganized with the assistance of the new Inter-America Development Bank (IDB). The IDB
and other major donors are working with the Ministry of Health to define a new health
strategy. The Social Impact Amelioration Program (SIMAP) and the Basic Needs Trust Fund
(BNTF), the social funds that finance small-scale local projects, continue to operate, and
SIMAP has recently been refinanced with a EDB loan.
14. The pace of structural reform was more gradual in 2001, particularly after the civil
disturbances that followed the elections in March. The elections also put new pressure on
government spending, and there has been a generally adverse reaction to civil service reform
which would lay-off additional workers.  Public sector unions continue to agitate for
additional wage increases, following the large adjustments made in 1999 (about 30%) and
2000 (27%). In addition, security concerns and a sharp increase in violence in 2002 has
emerged as a growing area of concern.
15. The State of Poverty. The PRSP notes that 35% of Guyana's population is poor, and 21%
extremely poor, according to a survey undertaken in 1999. The poverty rate declined,
however, by 19% between 1992 and 1999. Poverty in Guyana is unevenly distributed. The
majority of the poor live in the rural areas along the coast and in the interior - where incidence
of poverty is nearly universal, at 92.5%. Poverty rates in urban areas, and Georgetown in
particular, are considerably lower, at about 16%.
16. Most of the poor are self-employed in agriculture or work as manual laborers in rural
areas. Among urban citizens, the highest incidence of poverty corresponds to domestic
employees (maids) and construction workers. Many of Guyana's poor are of Amerindian
descent, many of whom did not benefit from the economic reforms of the 1990s, due to their
geographic isolation, which both imposes high market access costs and limits their access to
public services. Levels of education are lower for the poor population than for those of th.e
population as a whole. Less than 15 percent of the heads of poor households have completed
a secondary or higher levels of education.
17. The main causes of poverty can be directly linked to past deficiencies in Guyana's
economic performance. The nationalization of private companies in mining, agriculture, and
banking in the 1970s and 1980s resulted in: (a) an annualized decline of 3.4% in GDP
between 1980 and 1990; (b) a decline in per capita income from US$747 to US$3852 over the
same period; and (c) negative real interest rates and a depletion of national reserves. Adding to
the overall economic mismanagement, were a deterioration of regulatory and institutional
2 Data in 1995 constant US $. Source, World Bank, SIMA system, May, 2002.
4



systems, inadequate infrastructure, and deteriorating social services, all of which impeded
economic growth and poverty reduction.
II. PROVIDING SUPPORT TO GUYANA'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
18. The proposed credit will support key aspects of Guyana's comprehensive reform program
aimed at operationalizing the poverty reduction strategy outlined in the PRSP. The medium-
term goal for Guyana's poverty reduction strategy is to reduce the headcount ratio of 35% of
the population under poverty to 31% in 2005. Other key poverty reduction objectives will help
Guyana reach the Millennium Development Goals, including: (a) reducing infant and
maternal mortality rates; (b) achieving universal primary education; (c) eliminating gender
disparities in education; and (d) providing universal access to safe drinking water.
19. The proposed series of programmatic Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) will
support Guyana's comprehensive reform program. The PRSC framework has been chosen
because it supports a sustained medium-term commitment to institutional reforms focused on
implementing the Government's poverty reduction strategy. The Government will have
strong incentives to implement the PRSC program as IDA's possible future lending program
will depend on satisfactory progress of the program, and progress on the PRSC will be linked
to future assistance from the IMF under the PRGF. In addition, the PRSC program is closely
coordinated with assistance being provided by the IDB in such areas as health and public
sector reform, as well as with the assistance of donors such as the United Kingdom
Department for International Development (DFID), the European Union (EU), the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB), the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), all of whom are committed to supporting the
PRSP. Thus, the sectors chosen for support by the PRSC program are those in which the Bank
has a comparative advantage, or where it helps provide policy support to the work of other
donors (see Annexes IV and X, which show the links to the PRSP, and details on other donor
programs).
20. Annex II gives a policy matrix that outlines a three-year program of reforms. The first
column shows the actions that will have been accomplished by the Government prior to
proceeding with PRSC-I. The second and third columns show the possible content of PRSC-I
and PRSC-lI, based on the assumption of continued good performance and implementation of
the PRSP. The matrix indicates that some areas not included in PRSC-I (particularly mining,
forestry) will be covered in these later operations. While PRSC-H is within the current IDA
lending program, PRSC-RI would fall within the next three year allocation, and therefore the
timing and feasibility of PRSC-IfI is more uncertain.
21. The PRSC directly supports some of the key pillars of Guyana's PRSP, including the
pillars designed: (i) to stimulate economic growth and increase productivity in key sectors,
such as sugar; (ii) to improve the accountability and transparency of the public sector; and
(iii) to improve the delivery of public services, especially in health, education and water
supply.
5



PRSP OBJECTIVE: BROAD BASED, JOB GENERATING ECONOMIC GROWTH
Macroeconomic management
22. The Government projects a realistic growth rate of about 3.4 % per annum for the period
2002-2006,3 given the limited sources of growth within the economy, and a realistic
assessment of foreign assistance availability. This target is predicated upon: (i) an increase in
private investment from its current 7.9 % of GDP to 11.7 %of GDP; and (ii) public investment
averaging approximately 16 % per annum, and a national savings rate of about 7%. Exports
are expected to show little or no real growth, given declining terms of trade, limited prospects
for key exports such as bauxite and sugar, and declining production of gold. The Government
has initiated a reform program for continued sound macroeconomic management, including
improved tax administration and collection, expenditure control, and monetary policy focused
on maintaining price and exchange rate stability.
23. The PRSC incorporates the Government's overall macroeconomic performance targets as
clear benchmarks of performance. Specifically, the Government's balance of payments, public
sector balance, and debt service ratio targets - all in-line with agreements reached between the
Government and the IMF - will be monitored as indicators of successful implementation of
the program (see below). However, the key to accelerating growth in the medium term lies in
providing an enabling environment for the private sector that will encourage investment and
provide a clear regulatory environment. An essential ingredient for this is a revised tax code,
that would reduce overall rates, and limit the room for exemptions and exclusions. The IMF
completed a full tax study in 2002, and has included tax reform in the PRGF as part of actions
to be taken by the end of the year. The Government is also in the process of drafting new
regulatory laws for forestry and mining, ensuring that these sectors can contribute to growth
on a sustainable basis, while ensuring that there is a clear regulatory environment that will
attract private sector investment. Clearly prospects for growth in the short term will hinge on
the Government's success in improving the security situation and strengthening the political
dialogue with the opposition.
Sugar Industry
24. Modernizing the sugar industry to improve its competitiveness and sustainability is critical
for Guyana's continued growth. Sugar accounts for 16 percent of GDP, 23 percent of foreign
exchange earnings, and directly or indirectly affects the livelihoods of over 75,000 people.
Industry profitability is based on preferential market access and prices, with the bulk of
production going to the European Union under special protocols. An in-depth analysis of the
current perforrnance of the industry and its prospects, carried out with the support of the Bank
and DFID and involving public consultations with key stakeholders, indicated that:
3While the overall growth rate projected for GDP seems low, it should be kept in mind that population growth is
close to zero because of continued out-migration from the country.
6



* Guyana'appeared to retain a regional competitive advantage as a sugar producer with
field and factory performance improvements over the last ten years comparable to
average global performance;
* a new modern and larger scale factory at Skeldon in the more productive region of
Berbice would yield reasonable economic and financial rates of return even with
declining'preferential markets through significantly lower production costs;
* the loss-making factories in the Demarara region, based on marginal cost analysis,
receive a large implicit cross subsidy within the industry (absorbing the equivalent of
2% of GDP) which diverts resources from expanded public spending for health,
education and other public and social services. These factories will need to be made
profitable or be closed once the new Skeldon factory is in operation if market
conditions remain unchanged or decline;
* the Guyana Sugar Company (GUYSUCO) needs to reduce labor costs, which have
grown over the last decade from 41% to 56% of total recurrent costs and to shift wage
policy from a production to a profitability basis;
* actions are needed to increase the share of production from private cane growers to
reduce the demand for public investment in the sector; and
* there - is a need to implement an improved regulatory structure for the industry,
including actions to: a) eliminate the sugar levy on windfall profits of GUYSUCO
which previously had been applied in an inconsistent and uncertain manner; b) rely
instead on dividends and tax payments from GUYSUCO as sources of government
revenues;, and c) modify the existing management contract with the private
management company to improve the incentives for increasing GUYSUCO's
profitability.
25. Government Strategy and Program. With threats to the preferential regime and possible
changes in European Union sugar policy, many producers in the Caribbean will become
uncompetitive and face closure. To avoid this fate in Guyana, the Government is undertaking
a major restructuring and modernization of the industry to reduce costs, maintain
competitiveness, and to ensure the long term sustainability of sugar's contribution to the
economy. Given the strategic importance of sugar in the economy, the Government has
decided to retain ownership of industry assets while relying on private sector management of
GUYSUCO and increasing the share of privately-grown cane. The Government's strategy
consists of actions to reduce production costs, improve the regulatory framework for the
industry'and open new regional export markets.
26. PRSC. The key actions on the reform program under PRSC I include: (i) initiation of the
environmental impact assessment for the new Skeldon sugar mill; (ii) issuance of the tender
for its construction; and (iii) agreement on a plan to reduce labor costs from 54% of total
recurrent costs to 43% by the end of 2006 through a program of natural attrition and managed
staff reductions. In addition, the Government has agreed to work with GUYSUCO and the
sugar workers' union towards a new collective bargaining agreement to base wage policy on
industry profitability. Actions under future PRSCs will include: preparation and signing of an
agreement between GOG and GUYSUCO on sector performance and profitability; revising
the existing management contract for GUYSUCO to be based on profit targets rather than
production targets, followed by international tendering of the management contract in 2005;
7



eliminating the sugar levy; amending the Cane Payment System Act to support greater
production by private growers; implementing GUYSUCO's land divestiture program
successfully to complete the Skeldon financing plan; and continuing with the plan to reduce
labor costs.
Mining
27. The bauxite sector has historically been an important source of exports and employment.
However, with increased competition from the Far East, and declining productivity, the sector
is no longer viable and has been heavily subsidized by the Government. These subsidies
currently reach about 1.7% of GDP, and cannot be sustained if social spending is to be
expanded and fiscal stability maintained. The Government has been negotiating with a
prospective buyer for these assets, but such a sale will be contingent on a thorough
environmental and social impact analysis review. In addition, the Government plans to draft
and send to Parliament new legislation improving the regulatory environment for the mining
sector in general, covering issues such as environmental impact, taxation, the rights of
Amerindian people, etc. The new law and implementing regulations would most likely
provide a firm legal basis for controlling ongoing, highly destructive informal placer mining
(for gold and diamonds). While the new law might attract new large-scale mining by
international companies, such new mines would require careful environmental regulation to
minimize and mitigate adverse environmental impacts. Accordingly, PRSC-Il would require
the completion of a Sectoral Environmental Assessment of mining in Guyana. Passage of the
new law could be a prior action for a possible PRSC-LI.
Forestry
28. The development and use of Guyana's important forestry resources on a sustainable basis
remains a key issue in terms of future growth of the economy, and for exports. Existing
legislation does not adequately ensure that these objectives are met, and does not provide the
private sector with a clear regulatory environment. The PRSC will support the development
of new legislation covering this sector, which is currently being drafted with technical
assistance from DFID. A preliminary review of the draft legislation indicates that the new law
would be environmentally friendly, and a significant improvement over the present
arrangement, and make clear provisions for the rights of Amerindian indigenous communities.
However, before the final development of this legislation, the Government has agreed to
undertake a thorough environmental impact analysis of the proposed changes, and the
necessary public consultations. It is envisaged that the new legislation would take place as
part of PRSC-Il.
PRSP OBJECTIVE: BETTER INVESTMENTS IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
29. Guyana is among the Caribbean countries with the lowest indicators of health status: life
expectancy at birth is 64 years, maternal mortality is 125 per 100,000 live births; 11% of
newborns have low birth weight (less than 2,500 grams at birth); only 15% of children under
8



four months of age are fully breastfed; infant mortality is 54 per 1000; 14% of children under
5 years are underweight and 11% are stunted4. Malaria is highly endemic and HIV/AIDS is in
the stage of a generalized epidemic, with a prevalence in adults of about 4%, the highest in
the Caribbean region after Haiti. On the other hand, the centralized health sector has
constrained the various regions in Guyana from developing more accessible and effective
local health services. Human resources in the health sector are scarce and insufficiently
trained, especially in the hinterland, where health care delivery is more difficult and costly
because the population is widely scattered. Health information systems are poorly developed
and underutilized.
The Government needs support to substantially improve the health status of Guyana's people,
and to control the serious HIV/AIDS epidemic. It would also require support to undertake a
solid health sector reform that ensures the creation of a primary health care system that is
more accessible, equitable, and affordable, and that provides health care to those at greatest
risk, in particular poor and indigenous women and children in rural areas. Such a reform
would envisage three broad areas:
(i) Primary Health Care. Based on a complete inventory and assessment of the existing
system, the development of a model for an improved primary health care system, and the
agreement on its implementation.
(ii) Institution building. Revising existing legislation and issuing new regulations to support
the proposed reforms, including improved financial management and procurement
arrangements; and
(iii) Capacity building. Strengthening human resources, improving management information
systems, and providing adequate equipment and staffing to health facilities.
30. The IDB is taking the lead in the development of the strategy on primary health care, in
coordination with the Ministry of Health. The PRSC will support this reform as it is
developed. During the next year, the first step will be to undertake the inventory of existing
facilities, validation of health statistics, and analysis of vertical programs. Potentially, once
the reform program is developed it could be included as part of PRSCs II and m, but this is
not presently included in the policy matrix.
31. HIV/AIDS. The level of HIV/AIDS infection is growing rapidly, and already affects 4-6%
of the population. The rate of HIV infection doubled between the first and second trimesters of
2001. While the Government has established a National AIDS Program Secretariat, and has
developed a national AIDS strategic plan, implementation capacity remains weak. The
Government estimates that providing universal care and treatment for all diagnosed
HIV/AIDS cases would cost about US$11 million per year, compared with the total of the
Ministry of Health's budget of US$20 million for all purposes. Guyana is already receiving
assistance in this area from a number of donors, including UN agencies, USAID, CIDA and
the IDB. In addition, the Government has expressed its intention to prepare a free-standing
project on prevention and control of H1V/AIDS to be financed through the existing regional
APL for HIV/AIDS prevention and control in the Caribbean Region. Agreement on an overall
4 Report of Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey, Guyana. Conducted by the Bureau of Statistics. July 2001
9



HIV/AIDS strategy, and the establishment of HIV/AIDS program management arrangements
are prior conditions for PRSC-I.
32. A National AIDS Program Secretariat is in place and is being strengthened by staff
posting from the U.S. Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). A National AIDS
Committee with representation from multiple sectors and international agencies has been set
up for advisory support to the Secretariat and the Ministry of Health. In addition, the Regional
AIDS Committees have been set up in seven regions to guide program activities in the
respective regions. A new National Strategic Plan for HIV-AIDS 2002-2006 has benefited
from inputs of main stakeholders and international agencies.
Education
33. The Government's National Development Strategy 2001-2010 aims to increase the share
of education in the national budget from the present level of 16% to approximately 20 % by
2005. Expenditures in the education sector, as a percentage of GDP, are expected to rise from
3.6% in 1999 to approximately 5% of GDP through 2005. In addition, the PRSP puts forward
ambitious goals to increase secondary school enrollments, reduce repetition and dropouts,
reduce overcrowding, and raise the number of qualified teachers.
34. In recent years, the inputs to the education system have been increased significantly, partly
due to the Government's conscious effort to do so and partly due to the assistance of donors
including the DFID, IDB, CIDA, and EU, as well as IDA . However, like many low income
countries, Guyana continues to suffer from questionable levels of education quality and low
efficiency. In terms of quality, the most serious matter is an alarmingly high percentage of
untrained teachers in the system. During 1998/1999, untrained teachers represented 49% of
all primary teachers and 40% of all general secondary teachers. This problem is further
exacerbated by the difficulty of stationing and retaining qualified teachers in interior schools,
and by the exodus of about 14% of Guyana's trained teachers each year to developed countries
for better-paying jobs. In terms of efficiency, high levels of student and teacher absenteeism
also contribute to the under-performance of the basic education cycle. Student absenteeism
ranges from 25% at the primary level to 46% (for males) in primary tops5. Teacher
absenteeism is also problematic, averaging 16% system-wide. The combined impact of
student/teacher absenteeism in some regions represents a loss of one-third to one-half of total
instructional time.
35. The questionable quality and the low efficiency are the results of the resource management
system, which lacks incentives for improving performance. Promotion and salary increase of
teachers are almost totally based on seniority, and not on their teaching skills. Even though
education management is decentralized to regions, mechanisms to reflect the concerns and the
interests of students, parents and local communities are absent. Resource allocation from the
central Government to regional authorities, and from regional authorities to schools is based
on political maneuvering and lobbying, and lacks objective resource allocation criteria and
incentives to improve performance.
5 The primary top is a year of additional schooling for primary school leavers who are not entering secondary
school.
10



36. As a result, significant disparities in learning outcomes among children from different
ethnic and economic groups exists, as evidenced by large inter-school and inter-regional
variations, raising serious equity concerns. A high proportion of economically disadvantaged
students fail to achieve learning standards established by the curriculum. The chronic under-
performance of poor children correlates directly with the low level of key inputs such as
trained teachers, textbooks, and other instructional technologies in rural and remote schools.
37. The PRSC will monitor the implementation of the Education Sector Plan prepared by the
Ministry of Education, which operationalizes the PRSP's goals for critical achievements in the
sector, in terms of increased schools, textbooks and trained teachers, as well as improved
mechanisms for stakeholder participation. The Government has already initiated an Education
Financial Reform, which aims to establish formula based resource allocations to schools,
governance of financial resources by school boards (participation by teachers, students,
parents and local community groups), and holding schools accountable for their use of
resources. A pilot test of the financial reform will be started in a limited number of schools
under PRSC-I, and later expanded under following PRSCs.
PRSP OBJECTIVE: IMPROVED SOCIAL SAFETY NETS
38. Unemployment remains high, and is a source of social unrest. Additional reform efforts,
in areas such as the bauxite, sugar and water sectors could generate more unemployment as
redundancies are identified. At the same time, formal social safety nets in Guyana are weak.
Both coverage and benefit levels are low, and the main agency providing services, the
Ministry of Human Services, Labor and Social Security is limited in financial and human
resource capacity. The Ministry estimates that demand for benefits is approximately double
the available supply. The system's public sector safety nets is supplemented by the programs
of private agencies, mostly religious groups, but the scope and reach of these programs are
very limited.
39. The Ministry manages several programs aimed at providing assistance to those most in
need. There are offices in each of the ten regions but the majority of work is handled out of
Georgetown. The three largest programs include:
* Old Age Pensions -- a non-contributory scheme providing very small old age
pensions to poor individuals over the age of 65 who are not eligible for
pensions under the National Insurance Scheme;
* Public Assistance - a program that provides limited cash assistance to single
mothers (widows and those abandoned), the disabled, and unemployed;
* Special Circumstances -- a 'poverty' fund aimed at providing emergency
assistance to those in extreme need for burials, groceries, medical care, etc.
40. All of these programs are targeted through self-selection mechanisms, as well as social
worker assessment. Coverage is very low, and because of the limited supply of resources,
there is no outreach to poor communities, nor advertisement of the programs. Beneficiaries
usually find out about the programs through word of mouth or through religious groups.
11



41. A final program specifically targeted to the poor is the Social Impact Amelioration
Program (SIMAP) which was created in 1990 to mitigate the potential negative impacts of the
Economic Recovery Program. SIMAP has now evolved into a Social Fund mainly financing
small scale infrastructure in small communities. A similar program is the BNTF, also
providing grants for small infrastructure in poor communities.  The programs operate
separately because of the needs of the various donors. While these programs play a very
important role in improving living standards in poor communities, it is debatable if they
constitute a suitable safety net for the poor.
42. As part of the PRSC-I appraisal, IDA staff, working with the Government, agreed on a
plan to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Human Services, Labor and Social Security.
Technical assistance to implement this plan is being funded by the IDA under the PSTAC. In
the later years, the plan calls for expanding the safety net programs of this Ministry so as to
increase their coverage. In addition, the Government will take steps to improve the focus of
SIMAP and BNTF by adopting an enhanced poverty map based on the latest available
surveys, including the census, scheduled to be completed in 2002.
PRSP OBJECTIVE: STRONGER PUBLIC SECTOR INSTITUTIONS AND BETTER GOVERNANCE
National Government
43. While the scope and reach of the public sector has been reduced through a substantial
program of privatization, general reform of the balance of the public sector remains one of the
most disappointing aspects of Guyana's past structural reform efforts. The present public
sector is extremely weak in many aspects. Specifically, it is plagued by:
* Weak financial management, lack of effective control along with over-centralization
of decision making, and a relatively large public sector for a small economy;
* Overlapping/contradictory jurisdiction and functional responsibilities;
* Deterioration in the quality and composition of public employment, particularly at the
management and technical levels, arising from a failure to provide adequate
compensation, and exacerbated by the outflow of qualified professionals abroad.
44. Various public sector reform programs have been put forward (ODA in 1995, IDB in
1999), but none has been adopted. In addition, the strong Public Sector Union has demanded,
and through court orders, received very large wage adjustments in the past two years. As a
result, most of the money transferred under HIPC-I in those years went to finance these salary
adjustments. While wages now, particularly at lower levels, are roughly competitive with the
private sector, union pressures for further large wage increases continue. The unions have
also marshaled popular pressure against any civil service reform that would reduce the number
of civil servants in the government, even though excess employment is known to exist.
45. During the 1990s,with IDA support, the Government successfully privatized a number of
public corporations. Private management (Booker Tate, Ltd. of the UK) was introduced in the
Guyana Sugar Company (GUYSUCO) in the early 1990s and GUYSUCO is undertaking
12



significant restructuring to become competitive. Progress has also been made with respect to
the restructuring and introduction of private management to the water sector.
46. Revisions have been introduced to public service rules relating to employee discipline,
severance, and annual performance appraisals, but the evidence suggests that these formal
rules are not being implemented, and therefore have limited impact on civil servant
performance6. The Government has improved its payroll and pensions database, which will
help reduce fraud and overpayment of pensions. Ongoing IDA and IDB technical cooperation
is supporting the Government in staff audits, job descriptions, and performance appraisal,
which will serve as key inputs for the public sector modemization prograrn to be implemented
over the medium term. While the Government has established a Public Sector Reform
Committee, a true "Public Sector Reform Strategy" has not yet emerged.
47. The IDB's Technical Cooperation (TC) agreement is presently in place and will begin to
develop an overall reform program. This TC arrangement will attempt to:
* Build consensus on the need for public sector reform;
* Undertake institutional and organizational capacity assessments for each
ministry; and
* Review human resource needs and undertake staff audits.
Accountability, Financial Management
48. As part of the preparation of the PRSC, a Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) was undertaken by the Bank (see Annex VEII). The principal findings of this CFAA
are:
*  The country's public financial management systems and processes are basic and
fragmented. As a result, many decisions with substantive financial impact follow
from the exercise of discretion by senior officials at the top levels of Government
and in the revenue generating agencies.
* The best developed of the Government's financial management systems relate to
budget preparation. While efforts have been made to move the recurrent budget to
a program basis, capital budgets are still presented on a line item basis, and are not
coordinated with the recurrent budget. By 2003, the Government expects to unify
the preparation and presentation of the two, and present to parliament a unified
program budget. Even so, there remain systemic deficiencies related to the budget
process, and systems for monitoring compliance with the budget are fragmented,
which limits the capacity to compare actual expenditures to the budget. These
systemic problems are treated in greater detail in the Bank's Public Expenditure
Review (Report No. 2015 1-GUA).
* The Government's accounting system in place is a throwback to British colonial
times. It is used to track government accounts in the aggregate, it is not used as a
6 O, Gokcekus, N. Manning, R. Mukhersee & R. Nallari, "Institutional Environment and Public Official's
Performance in Guyana." World Bank / PREM Technical Paper # 506,2001.
13



management tool by individual ministries. Even so, there is a myriad of off-budget
agencies that do not maintain their accounts using this system.
*  Given that there is ad hoc integration between the budget and accounting systems,
and no uniform government-wide approach to modern financial management
methods, the internal control systems in place are the tailored creations of some
agencies. They are not adaptable for widespread use, and they are not useful for
centralized oversight.
*  The Office of the Auditor General (OAG) has demonstrated genuine
professionalism and a refreshing independence; in OAG's reports, problems are
clearly identified and candidly discussed. Until now, the resources available to
OAG have been insufficient to enable completion of high quality work on time.
The constitutional amendment of 2001 will increase the independence of OAG;
and the actions needed to make that amendment operational are covered by
conditionality related to the PRSC.
*  The parliament has a constitutional role to oversee public sector management;
however, it is unable to exercise this function. While the parliament does debate
the budget, it has not made adjustments to line items; and, while the Public
Accounts Committee does discuss the Auditor General's Annual Reports, the
findings from this discussion do not result in corrective action.
*  In the absence of integrated systems, respect for operating rules, a functioning
public oversight mechanism, and a recognized medium for enforcement, many
political leaders exercise considerable discretion in running their agencies. Even
assuming that this exercise of discretion results in wise decisions, there is a
perception that it is difficult to do business in Guyana.
49. The CFAA report was extensively discussed with the Government in April, 2002, and the
Government agreed to undertake a program of improvements in four areas:
*     Improvement in oversight of public financial management
*     Curtailment of the discretionary powers of public officials
*     Disclosure of public officials' personal assets
*     Independence of the Auditor General's office.
50. The Government agreed, as outlined in a letter dated May 1, 2002 (see Annex VII), that a
substantive reform program would be developed in each of these areas over the next nine
months. A set of time bound actions would be agreed between IDA and the Government in
advance of PRSC-Il. In addition, certain reforms, such as the strengthening of the Auditor-
General's office, have already been incorporated into the PRGF program of the IMF.
51. Tracking Poverty Expenditures. In addition, an assessment of the ability of the
Guyanese authorities to track poverty-reducing expenditures was undertaken in September
2001. Although the overall assessment shows that Guyana scores favorably against the check
list and has made considerable efforts to track poverty-reducing expenditures, the assessment
concludes that there are a number of areas for improvement.7 The findings of the tracking
7"Guyana: Tracking Poverty-Reducing Expenditures - Draft Assessment and Action Plan (AAP)" September
28, 2001.
14



study in many ways parallel the findings of the CFAA. Classification of the recurrent budget
is not conducive to identifying expenditures by program - or outcome, e.g. education is not
delineated by primary, secondary or tertiary objectives. The capital budget tends not to have a
functional classification and it is therefore difficult to know the totality of expenditures in
support of a particular program or function, There are no multi-year expenditure or liability
projections at the level of sectors or line Ministries. The Auditor-General (AG) does present a
report on the accounts of the ministries, departments and regions within 12 months of the end
of the budget year and this represents not only a financial audit but also a review of value for
money issues. Unfortunately, however, the AG's report details extensive weaknesses in
financial systems and significant irregularities in the accounts. "With the help of IDB financed
consultants, a new audit law, manual of procedures, and organizational establishment are
being prepared." This work is not likely to be finished before the end of 2002. But in light of
the extensive work already undertaken by the IDB and others, the PRSC will focus on a
limited number of objectives for the near term. These reforms are fully consistent with the
IDB's approach and have been coordinated with them.
Procurement Reform
52. Prior to 2002, public sector procurement of goods, works and services in Guyana was
governed by a set of very old and obsolete rules and regulations. The legal procurement
framework was deficient and outdated and regulations did not contain the essential aspects for
a transparent and efficient procurement system. Procurement regulations and procedures were
not conducive to achieve economy and efficiency, to introduce accountability in public
procurement or to create a fair environment to all parties involved in the process. These
fundamental problems included: 8
* The organizational structure for procurement at the central level, i.e. the Central
Tender Board (CTB), was weak and inefficient. The composition of the CTB reflected
mainly Government control of this body and did not have representation of the private
and professional communities. The functions and responsibilities of the CTB were not
properly defined, and its structure did not allow the CTB to manage its day-to-day
operational work efficiently.
* The secretariat of the CTB was weak and understaffed.
* The threshold levels by all strata of authority were too low and out of step with
developments in the economy, and with inflation. Because of these low thresholds, the
work load at the CTB was too big and almost impossible to manage in a proper and
efficient manner.
* Evaluation committees were appointed by the CTB and Regional Boards, rather than
by the executing agencies, resulting in a conflict of interest.
* Procurement was decentralized to several central units (eight Ministries and
corresponding Departments), regional administrations (ten regions), state corporations
and autonomous agencies, with oversight within the public administration the
responsibility of many entities (three boards, i.e. central, ministerial and regional) and
individuals.
8 For details, see "Country Procurement Assessment Report", June 30, 1999.
15



53. As part of PRSC preparation, IDA staff have given extensive technical advice in the area
of national procurement reform. While a new procurement law was passed by Parliament in
May 2002, it corrected some, but not all, of the problems noted above. The new law was
deficient in that it further centralized the process to a National Board (replacing the CTB),
allowed for cabinet intervention in the approval process, failed to mention the role of the
Public Procurement Commission (PPC) of the Parliament, and was not based on public
consultations. However, IDA staff were able to work with the Government to achieve
agreement on an acceptable interim arrangement. These modifications were contained in a
circular issued to all Government agencies by the Ministry of Finance. A revised law is
expected to be passed by the Parliament by the end of the year, which will correct the
deficiencies noted in the present law. The secretariat of the new National Procurement and
Tender Administration has already been formed, and will draft new standard bidding
documents, and issue regulations for functioning under the new law, to be approved by the
PPC. An updated plan of action based on the Country Procurement Assessment (CPAR),
which indicates how the Government plans to upgrade its procurement system, is contained in
Annex IX.
54. PRSC. In summary, PRSC-I will support, as prior actions:
*     The passage by Parliament of a new Procurement Act 2002, which establishes
transparent procedures for the awarding of public contracts. The law will be
administered by a new National Procurement and Tender Board and its
secretariat;
*     The preparation of a draft Audit Act, which will clarify the responsibilities and
duties of the Auditor General's Department. The passage of the Audit Act will
be part of PRSC-II.
*     The preparation of a program to strengthen the Auditor-General's Department,
in terms of staff and training;
*     Agreement on a program to enact the findings of the recent CFAA mission,
including steps to reduce discretionality, improve Parliamentary oversight, and
increase public disclosure of assets of public sector employees; and
*     The agreement, in the context of the IMF's PRGF, of a cap for public sector
wages as a share of total budget expenditures.
55. In addition, IDA and the IDB, will support a number of other key reforms in the
Government's overall public sector rationalization program. A revised IDA Public
Expenditure Review will assess overall priorities in public spending. In addition, work will
begin, with IDB help, in the costing and prioritization of the public investment program. The
IDA is in the process of updating its CPAR, and in this context has reviewed the draft
legislation and the arrangements for the operation of the Procurement Board. A program for
strengthening the auditing function is a part of this operation, and will be further supported by
technical assistance under the PSTAC.
Local Government Reform
16



56. One of the major messages from the PRSP consultation process was the general discontent
with the functioning of local government institutions, and their failure to deliver basic services
to the population, and especially the poor. Since the local government reform of 1980, Guyana
has been divided into ten regions (each with a Regional Democratic Council (RDC)), 65
Neighborhood Democratic Councils (NDC), covering rural areas outside of municipalities, six
municipalities, and 76 Amerindian Village Councils (VC). However, no elections were held
to fill the posts of the various councils until 1994, and none have been held since.
57. Local government functioning remains weak also because administrative controls tend to
be held by the Ministry of Local Government, and have not been devolved to local authorities.
A major first step in improving the situation will be to reform the electoral process, hold new
elections, and then begin to find ways to devolve more responsibility to local governments,
while at the same time allowing for sufficient ex post audit and managerial controls by the
central government, and increased transparency and greater accountability to citizens at local
levels.
58. Local government units rely principally on property taxes to cover current expenditures,
and on central government subventions for capital spending.  Because of weak local
government revenue collection, this arrangement leads to a distortion wherein maintenance
and operating expenditures are underfunded. One possible reform would entail dropping these
ear-marked uses of central government funds. However, there are major weaknesses in the
property tax collection system. Local governments (LG) cannot seize and sell real property to
pay tax bills, can collect taxes only from owners, not from residents (which limits tax
payments by absentee owners), and in the NDCs, have not revalued the property base in many
years. In addition, local tender boards have to be brought under the purview of the recently
established national board, and standard bidding documents and regulations adopted that
follow national practices. LG units should also have greater flexibility in setting salaries and
managing human resources, including the ability to hire professional managers. Finally, the
records of LG unit meetings and financial transactions, especially the award of contracts and
voting records of members, need to be made open to the public, as do the meetings
themselves.
59. A Joint Task Force on Local Government has been formed by the two major political
parties, and its report is expected before the end of 2002. Hence, the reform agenda for
PRSC-II and PRSC-III might need to reflect the findings of this group. For PRSC-I, however,
the IDA has identified with the Government two initial reforms which are important, and have
been undertaken as prior actions. These include:
* Completion of the revaluation of immovable properties in two municipalities
(with substantial progress in two more); and
* Reinstitution of laws (presently suspended) that permit the seizure and sale for
tax purposes of real property of tax delinquents.
60. While the subsequent reform agenda is more uncertain, some key potential elements (see
Annex II) include:
X Allocations of subventions to local government units on the basis of an agreed
and transparent formula;
17



* Beginning a system of self-accounting where each local government unit can
hold individual accounts;
* Extension of the revaluation of property to all remaining municipalities;
* Revising laws to hold property users liable for taxes, as well as owners; and
* Agreeing on a mechanism giving citizens access to local government financial
records and minutes and voting records of local government meetings.
PRSP OBTECTIVE: BROADER AND BETTER PROVISION OF BASIC SERVICES
Water
61. While rich in water resources, water and sanitation services to Guyana's population are
seriously deficient. Relatively high water supply coverage levels (92% of the population is
estimated to have access to piped water), mainly among the population which live along the
more urbanized coastal strip, mask the lack of availability of water supply to poor urban and
hinterland communities, as well as major problems with safety, continuity and reliability of
supply where network connections exist (see Annex II on Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
for further discussion of supply availability among income groups). Until recently, there did
not exist national water quality standards nor a reliable water quality monitoring system.
There is currently limited treatment of water supply in Guyana (water is neither chlorinated
nor filtered at most production sites). Sanitation services are less widespread, with sewerage
connections available to only 35% of the population and the rest relying on latrines. With
much of the population dwelling in low-lying areas, drainage is critical; and frequent flooding
when drainage infrastructure fails, generates high levels of contamination of surface water,
which is often the main source of drinking water for the poor.
62. Lack of a clear sector strategy, sector regulatory and institutional framework and
uncoordinated donor involvement in investment in infrastructure has led to a high cost,
fragmented system of production, including more than 100 wells and pumping stations.
Poorly constructed and maintained transmission and distribution networks contribute to water
losses in excess of 70%. Until recently, service provision was the responsibility of two
utilities, the Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commissioners (GS&WC) which covered
service provision in the capital, Georgetown, and the Guyana Water Authority (GUYWA)
which had service responsibility for the rest of the country. This organizational arrangement
has not permitted operational and scale efficiencies in a context where financial and human
capital are scarce. Below-cost tariffs and pricing, lack of metering, and inadequate financial
management have all resulted in neither utility being financially sustainable, relying on
significant Government subsidies for operations and investment, diverting scarce resources
from other priorities. Privatization of electricity services in 1999, and the upward adjustment
of electricity rates have placed additional financial burden on the utilities' finances as
electricity accounts for more than 40% of the system's operating costs.
63. Government Strategy and Policy Reform Program. The Government has embarked on
a major and comprehensive reform program for the water sector, initiated with the assistance
of the donor community under the leadership of DFID and IDA . The reforms have been
developed in close collaboration with key stakeholders and donors through a highly
18



consultative process and through a Government/Donor Steering Group that has guided and
coordinated the reform process. The main elements of the Government's program include:
* The completion of   detailed studies and surveys to develop a comprehensive
analytical basis for diagnosis and development of the reform agenda with specific
attention to the provision of water access to the poor.
* Based on this work, a new modern legal, regulatory and institutional framework for
the adoption of sector with the passage of a new water law in March 2002 and
operating license in October 2002, and the launching of a new water policy through
the creation of a National Water Council to coordinate water resource policy and
issues;
* The establishment of new national water quality standards and monitoring and
enforcement system;
* The merger of GS&WC and GUYWA in May 2002 into a single utility created under
the Companies Act;
* The signing of competitively awarded and performance-based management contract
for five years with an international private operator in October 2002;
* The elaboration of a sector investment program designed to rationalize production
and distribution infrastructure to lower operating costs (especially electricity) by
concentrating production in approximately 14 areas, standardizing plant construction,
introducing low cost water treatment (aeration for removal of iron, followed by
chlorination), introducing metering and improved network management to reduce
losses;
* Implementation of a program to adjust tariffs to achieve full cost recovery in 2004
and eliminate operating subsidies by 2005 and utilize a transparent needs-based
subsidy for the poorest consumers;
* Implementation of specific programs to provide water supply in poor squatter
communities (underway) and hinterland communities with a goal of delivering
universal access to potable water supply by 2007.
64. PRSC. The core institutional components of the water sector reform program, which
form benchmarks for PRSC I, include the actions on the water law, operating license and
national water quality standards, the utility merger, the signing of the management contract,
tariff and subsidy actions for 2002 and further investment in squatter communities. PRSCs II
and III will continue with the reform agenda and investment program.
III. IDA GROUP STRATEGY
65. Linkage to CAS. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Guyana (Sept. 2002), orients
IDA Group support to Guyana in its poverty reduction strategy along two pillars: (i)
enhancing growth and (ii) refocusing public expenditures towards effective delivery of social
services. In this context, IDA's ongoing projects include the Secondary School Reform
Project, the Water Supply Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project, and the Financial
Sector TA credit, although most of these operations are nearing completion. Proposed lending
will largely be consolidated into a series of PRSCs, of which this is the first. A limited number
19



of stand-alone projects may be developed, however, such as the proposed GEF-financed
National Protected Areas System, and possible interventions through the GEF-financed
Carbon Prototype Fund. In addition, a parallel PSTAC will assist in the implementation of the
PRSP by giving technical support for institutional development in certain key areas, including
statistics and monitoring, health policy reform, and governance. Based on work carried out
during PRSC preparation, an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant has been secured to
strengthen the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs. Annex VII presents a summary of issues and
progress in this area. Guyana is likely to become a participant in the Regional HIV/AIDS
project, already approved by the Board and currently including Barbados, Dominican
Republic and Jamaica.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
66. The proposed credit of SDR 9.1 million (US$12 million equivalent) would support the
Government's poverty reduction strategy as described above. The Credit will be disbursed in
one tranche for the full amount upon effectiveness. The policy initiatives that have been taken
as required prior actions for the credit are shown in the first column of the policy matrix
(Annex II). All prior actions have been taken, and there are no outstanding conditions of
effectiveness.
67. To effectively implement the poverty reduction strategy, the cooperation and coordination
of a number of Government ministries and agencies will be required. The central management
responsibility and authority for overseeing the implementation of the actions included in the
PRSP and supported by the PRSC will lie in the Policy Coordination and Program
Management Unit (PCPMU), recently established in the Office of the President. Regular
reports will be presented to the IDA and other donors on the progress made in implementing
the Government's policy reform and investment programs. The head of the PCPMU reports to
the President, who in turn is advised by a separate steering committee composed of civil
society representatives, government and the private sector. The Unit has two broad divisions:
monitoring and evaluation (see below) and policy. The latter is charged with the task of
monitoring the implementation of important structural reforms, including those under the
HIPC, PRGF and PRSP, as well as the IDA's PRSC.
68. Monitoring and evaluating the reforms under the PRSP and PRSC will be critical to
ensuring accountability and transparency in implementation. The consultative process for the
PRSP was quite extensive, and began an important public dialogue in Guyana. The PRSP
outlines a strategy for monitoring, though the details of this strategy are vague. As part of the
appraisal of the PRSC, the IDA agreed with the Government on a comprehensive monitoring
and evaluation strategy to be implemented as the PRSC becomes effective (see Annex VI).
The strategy will involve participation from the line ministries, civil society, and others. It
will also require strengthening the capacity of the Bureau of Statistics to collect data on an
ongoing basis. Implementation of the monitoring strategy will be supported by the PSTAC.
20



69. Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. Monitoring and evaluation activities will be
carried out by the new Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Unit as part of the PCPMU. Its
responsibilities include acting as a catalyst across government and civil society for a
comprehensive and inclusive program of monitoring and evaluation of the goals and indicators
set forth in the PRSP. Specifically, it will:
* coordinate a network of focal points within each relevant government ministry and
agency for purposes of developing and executing a comprehensive and
performance-based M&E (Monitoring & Evaluation) program for the PRSP;
* provide technical support and managing capacity building programs on M&E for
key ministries and agencies;
* pilot an innovative community-based M&E program on local PRSP policy impacts
and activities;
* track key policy reforms within the PRSP, HIPC and PRSC, and;
* develop and execute a public outreach program on PRSP activities and progress on
the goals and indicators
70. Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Steering Committee. Prior to setting up the
PCPMU, a Steering Committee will be established to provide overall guidance and oversight
for the monitoring and evaluation program of the PRSP, and the work program of the
PCPMU. The Steering Committee will also conduct a public review and consultation on the
annual Poverty Progress Report produced by the PMEU. The Steering Committee will include
representatives from central and local government, the statistical bureau, trade unions, private
sector and leading civil society organizations. (For additional details on the PCPMU and the
steering committee, see Annex VI).
71. Statistics Bureau. The general shortage of good data remains a constraint on effective
monitoring. The Statistical Bureau, which has the main responsibility for national accounts,
the census, and household surveys remains under-equipped and poorly staffed. As part of the
preparation for this credit, a program for strengthening of the Statistical Bureau has been
developed, and will be financed under the associated PSTAC.
72. Goals for PRSP/PRSC Implementation. The key goals for the program are taken from
the PRSP, and are given in Table 2, below. These indicators are largely taken from the PRSP,
but have been modified slightly based on discussions between the Government and Bank staff.
Furthermore, some additional indictors have been added to the list. Prior to moving to PRSC-
II and m, the Government will be asked to report on the progress made in meeting these goals.
21



Table 2. Monitorable Goals for the PRSC
POVERTY                                                    ..       35.1    35.1     34.9     34.0    33.1     32.2     31.4
Population below the national poverty line (%)
ENROLMENT AND LITERACY                            82.1     83.2     83.4    83.4     83.5     84.6    85.7     86.9     88.2
% of primary school entrants reaching Grade 6
Repetition rate (secondary)                        14.2    13.3     13.0     12.9    12.7     12.5     12.3    11.2     10.1
Student/trained teacher ratio (primary)           55:1     55:1     54:1    54:1     53:1     53:1    52:1     50.1     48.2
Student/trained teacherratio (secondary)          35:1     36:1     36:1    37:1     36:1     35:1    34:1     33.1     31.5
Gross nursery school enrolment                    70       79       86      87       87       88      90       91       93
Gross primary school enrolment                     105     109      110      110     107      los      102     100      100
Gross secondary school enrolment                  65       68       60      62       65       68      70       72       74
% Trained teachers in secondary schools           56       57       56      55       56       57       60      62       64.5
i Trainedteachers inprimary schools               50       51       50      49       49       52      55       58       61
Number of CXC passes                              57.3     37.2     46.9    46.7     51.4     52.5     55.5    58       62
HEALTH AND NUTRITION,
SANITATION
IErfant mortality rate (per 100,000)              59       58       58       57      56       50       47       45      42
Matemal mortality rate (per 100,000)               190     190      190      188      187     170      150      145      130
1 year olds immunized against measles             82.0     93.3     85.0    88.9     90.2     93.3     95.5    97.1     97.1
I yearolds immunized against DPT                  88.0     90.0     83.0    85.6     88.2     90.2     90.8    91.3     92
% of population with access to health service      88.5    89.2     89.8     90.4    90.5     92.5     93.7     93.8    94.0
9' of population with access to adequate sanitation  88.5  88.3     88.3     88.4    89.2     89.4     90.1     92.1    93.2
Number of reported cases of AIDS                   115     222      237      248     227      225      220      210     205
Reported cases of AIDS among women (15-45 cohort)  ..       45       74      95       112     100      98       95       88
WATER
% of population with access to safe water          90.0    90.0     92.0     92.0     93.2    94.1     95.0     96      97.5
% of population with access to treated water      34.6     42.7     49.3     53.3     56.2    59.1     60.5     61.8    62.3
Domestic households connected to water system a_.  45,000  50,400   57,960   65,000   68,200  71,500   73,400   75,000   78,000
Distribution network constructed (Kilometers) a/  200      210      230      230      250     263      275      278      280
HOUSING
House lots distributed                             1,730   7,684    6,544    22,735   3,500   4,750    6,200    6,000   6,200
Land/House titles distributed                     359      98       570      1,750    2,015   5,200    10,200   12,000   15,500
LAND DISTRIBUTION
Agricultural leases                                98       114     143      210      220     250      310      330      345
Business leases                                   68       74       86       97       105     110      122      140      150
Source: Guyana: PRSP and World Bank staff
73. Poverty     and    Social Impact Analysis (PSIA).                An    analysis of the poverty        and social
impact of the reforms that will be carried out by the Government has been undertaken by the
IDA, and discussed with the Government. The PSIA focuses on three major structural areas
22



where reforms could have a potential negative impact: sugar, water, and bauxite (the later is
actually not part of the PRSC). The major adverse impact foreseen is the unemployment
created by the restructuring that will be undertaken in these three areas. Total unemployment
is unknown, but could amount to over 7,000 people over the next five years. In sugar, the
threat of unemployment is substantial, potentially exceeding 6,000 people, but not imminent,
since any sugar plant closings would only occur after the Skeldon plant is operational, which
will take at least three years. Existing older plants in the Demerara area, that could not
improve their productivity during this period, would then be closed. In the water sector, some
unemployment might result from the merger of the two existing water companies. However,
the water sector reform has several pro-poor aspects, including providing reliable water
service at low prices to poor families, and the expansion of water service in unserved
hinterland regions and urban squatter communities. Finally, in Bauxite, the purchase of
Linmine by a private investor could result in an immediate workforce reduction from 1,250 to
400. The Government has announced that all workers of Linmine will receive severance
payments up to two years of salaries, even though 400 will be hired back by the new firm. In
addition, each worker will be entitled to a training grant equal to 10% of this severance
payment. Bermine and Aroima (ABC), are being merged, with a net employment loss of 260
workers. The Government has agreed to a package of benefits to the workers of Bermine,
including severance payments up to two years of salary, and a housing plot for those who are
currently not homeowners. It is likely that the Government will offer similar benefits to any
lay-offs in the sugar sector, although this will have to be negotiated with the relevant unions.
74. Working with a team from the Millennium Institute, the PRSC team is also developed a
macro-economic simulation model designed to look at development alternatives in the light of
their long run and short term poverty and employment impacts. This model was discussed
with the Government during the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions, and may be used by the
Government as a focal point for discussions of development alternatives. The results of this
study suggests that reforms will reduce poverty in long run, but the short team impacts need to
be adequately addressed. The Millennium Institute is a branch of the Carter Center, which has
been involved with Guyana's National Development Strategy formulation and election
monitoring.
Disbursement, Procurement, and Audit
75. Disbursement. Upon approval of the Credit and notification by IDA  of Credit
effectiveness, the Government will submit a withdrawal application for the full amount of the
PRSC. The Government will open and maintain a deposit account in the Central Bank of
Guyana into which the credit will be disbursed. The Credit will be disbursed according to the
simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations.
76. Procurement. As a PRSC, the disbursements of the credit will not be linked to specific
purchases and there will be no procurement requirements. As noted above, the new
Procurement Act of 2002 is a key reform supported by the credit.
77. Audit.' The proceeds of the credit will be deposited in an account to be established in the
Central Bank of Guyana, from which the Government will be free to make withdrawals to
finance legitimate public sector expenditure. Excluded Expenditures are identified in the
23



Development Credit Agreement. The deposit account will be audited by independent auditors,
and this audit will be forwarded to IDA no later than four months after it has been requested
by IDA.
Environmental Assessment
78. The proposed PRSC has been classified as a sector adjustment loan, and is therefore
subject to the environmental guidelines OP 4.01. A full Environmental Analysis (EA) for
PRSC-I is contained in Annex V, and has been disclosed separately to the IDA's InfoShop
and within Guyana prior to appraisal. In summary, the main environmental issues identified
under the PRSC are the following:
79. Sugar. The PRSC-supported restructuring of Guyana's sugar industry would include the
construction of a new, modem sugar factory at Skeldon, along with the expansion of sugar
cane cultivation by some 10,000 hectares. Some of the planned sugar cane expansion area is
currently freshwater swamp forest and other wetlands, which would be drained for cane
cultivation. The IDA's Natural Habitats OP 4.04 requires adequate mitigation measures (such
as compensatory protected areas) if the project-caused natural habitat loss is deemed to be
significant. Although the proposed sugar cane expansion area would not qualify as a critical
natural habitat under OP 4.04 (large expanses of similar and less disturbed wetland habitats
occur in the vicinity), a full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been undertaken the
natural habitat area to be converted to cane cultivation and covering recommends appropriate
mitigation measures as part of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the Skeldon
area expansion. The EIA (currently under preparation) is expected to cover the full range of
environmental and related social issues associated with the factory, new cultivation area, and
irrigation and drainage system. After consulting with GUYSUCO and other Government
officials, the completed EIA (including EMP agreed with IDA) is a prior condition for signing
the construction contract for the new sugar factory, as well as for appraisal of PRSC-H.
80. Mining. In certain respects, passage of a new mining law would represent a considerable
environmental improvement, compared to the current legal framework. For example, the new
law and implementing regulations would most likely provide a firm legal basis for controlling
ongoing, highly destructive informal placer mining (for gold and diamonds), such as by
requiring settling ponds to keep sediment from degrading rivers. On the other hand, a new
mining law would seek to attract new large-scale mining by international companies. The
establishment of any such large new mines (and associated facilities, such as access roads,
camps, and company towns) would require careful regulation to minimize and mitigate
adverse environmental impacts. Accordingly, the PRSC-M would require (prior to appraisal)
the completion of a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) of mining in Guyana. The
SEA would provide recommendations for improving the new draft mining law and regulations
from an environmental standpoint; it would also identify priority actions to be implemented by
the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission (GGMC) and Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA). Passage of a new mining law acceptable to IDA is proposed as a prior condition for
the PRSC-III.
81. Forestry. With technical assistance from DFID, Guyana's Forestry Commission is
drafting a new forestry law. The new legislation will be reviewed by AIDA specialists, to
24



promote consistency with the spirit of the IDA's Forestry OP 4.36 and other safeguard
policies, as well as good environmental and social practices overall. In particular, the new
mining and forestry laws should facilitate (rather than inhibit) both the establishment of the
National Protected Areas System (under a proposed GEF grant) and the recognition and
proper resolution of Amerindian land claims. As discussed with Government, passage of the
new forestry law (acceptable to IDA) would be a prior condition for the PRSC-II. Although
the draft legislation still needs to be carefully reviewed within the IDA, preliminary
indications are that the new law would be environmentally friendly and a significant
improvement (environmentally and otherwise) over the status quo.
82. Water. The PRSC supports wholesale restructuring of Guyana's potable water supply
system, including a range of institutional, management, and tariff changes. It also supports the
establishment of national drinking water quality standards and the extension of water supply
services to squatter settlements and remote hinterland communities. No new or expanded
dams or reservoirs (nor other sensitive or potentially controversial infrastructure) will be
required for this expansion program. Further details are available in the EA (Annex V).
83. Indigenous People. A review of issues related to indigenous (Amerindian) peoples is to
be found in Annex VII. Of particular concern to IDA is a successful conclusion of the land
claims of various indigenous groups within the country, which conflict with programs of
environmental protection and forest development. Demarcation of indigenous areas, and the
potential expansion of these areas because of growing population pressure, is currently being
handled by the Minister of Indigenous Affairs in the Office of the President. IDA has
arranged an IDF grant to help strengthen this office and enable it to better carry out its
responsibilities. The Letter of Development Policy further indicates the Government's
commitment to an equitable treatment for Amerindian concerns, and a strengthening of the
Government's capacity to deal with these issues.
84. Triggers for PRSC-II. The Policy Matrix (Annex II) indicates the expected conditions
for PRSC II, which are largely a continuation of the actions initiated under PRSC I. Items in
bold face print are the key triggers identified so far as necessary for moving to the second
operation. The most important of these include:
* Passage of a new Audit Act;
* Approval by Parliament of a new Forestry Law;
* The establishment of a formula-based system for allocation of financial resources
to at least six schools in two regions;
* Implementation of the study on the coordination of the public investment program
and the government budget;
* Continuation of wage adjustments in line with a formula based on inflation and
productivity;
* Putting into operational effectiveness the new Procurement Law, including the
establishment of the National Procurement and Tender Board and the Public
Procurement Commission;
* Implementation of the reforms of the Local Government Commission;
25



*  Development of a simple formula-based system for providing subventions to local
government units;
*  Satisfactory operation of a new institutional framework for the water sector;
*  Actions to improve the regulatory framework for the sugar industry and lower
labor costs;
*  Elimination of the sugar levy and substitution of a dividend scheme, and
modification to the Cane Payment System Act; and
*  Continued adherence to the macro-economic stabilization program.
Coordination with IMF, HIPC and Donors
85. This credit has been carefully coordinated with other creditors, and the actions supported
under this credit are those that fit within the comparative advantage of IDA, given past
knowledge and experience in key sectors. There has been close cooperation between IDA and
the IMF on structural measures and many of the measures supported by PRSC-I are also
supported under the PRGF. Relations with the IMF are summarized in Annex XI. On the
critical areas of health and public sector reform, the main work is being undertaken by the
IDB, which is the country's largest source of foreign finance. In addition, we have worked
cooperatively with the IDB, DFID, USAID, CDB, EU, CIDA and others in areas such as
sugar, water, procurement and audit reform. Annex m shows which areas of the PRSP are
being supported by IDA and the other donors, while Annex X gives greater details on the
activities of other donors.
Benefits
86. The actions supported through the PRSC constitute the overarching reforms aimed at
reducing poverty in Guyana and providing public services to the poorest segments of the
Guyanese population. The PRSC will have direct benefits to the poor by freeing up resources
now being used to subsidize the sugar and bauxite sectors, to be directed to services in health,
education, and basic infrastructure. Other reforms will enhance the efficiency and delivery of
public services, especially to the poor, by improving the transparency and accountability of
government. In addition, reforms in governance and government regulation of key sectors
(mining, forestry) will continue to improve the climate for private investment and prospects
for economic growth.
87. Risks and Mitigation The present operation, which implies the launching of a series of
poverty-oriented adjustment credits, necessarily entails a high level of risk, given the present
economic and political situation in the country. The main risks, which have also been
identified in the Joint Staff Assessment of the IDA and IMF on the PRSP are as follows:
*  National consensus, race relations and security. The PRSP itself notes that
sufficient degree of consensus may not have been reached to implement the
strategy in a sustainable manner and raises doubts about the stance that opposition
parties and labor unions might take in engaging the Government in a constructive
dialogue. Guyana is a country deeply divided along racial lines, and political
parties reflect the same division. Racial and political tensions resulted in a series of
26



severe disturbances after the re-election of the President in 2001, and 2002 has
been marked by rising violence and criminal actions. While some violence is
politically or racially motivated, in other cases, criminal elements are taking
advantage of the deteriorating political/racial climate to become more active. The
situation is further fueled by international drug smuggling. This raises the risk that
the security situation could divert Government attention away from the critical
policy/structural reform agenda and PRSP implementation.
*  Implementation capacity and institutional capacity. A major risk centers around
Guyana's historically limited implementation capacity. The Government has had
problems in recruiting and retaining qualified professionals in the public sector.
Although public service salaries have increased substantially in recent years, these
adjustments have been across-the-board and therefore not adequate to attract and
retain skilled persons in key positions, such as doctors, nurses, school teachers,
technical staffs in the civil service, as well as senior and middle level management.
Moreover, decision-making authority remains highly centralized, which
undermines morale in the senior civil service.
* Availability of external donor resources. The Government's ability to reach the
goals of the PRSP will be constrained by the availability of external resources.
Indeed, at current commitment levels, it does not appear possible to implement the
whole Strategy as originally conceived. It will be essential that the authorities
continue to review projects and programs with a view to ensuring that high priority
activities are funded and implemented.
*  Developments in the world economy. Guyana depends heavily on a few products
whose prices have been falling in recent years (rice, bauxite, gold), or whose
continued protected access to European markets is likely to be phased-out in the
medium-term (sugar). Unless a major effort can be made, through an acceleration
of structural reforms in order to induce private investment to diversify the
economic base, Guyana will remain heavily dependent on these commodities and
risks seeing its growth and poverty reduction targets jeopardized.
*  Public sector wage demands. The civil service unions are pressing for large
across-the-board wage increases following the sizeable wage increases granted
in 1999 and 2000. The unions are pressing for external arbitration and have
threatened to strike if their demands are not met on a retroactive basis. Their
demands, if intensified, could cause social unrest, disruptions in public service
delivery and, if granted, would cause a diversion of resources from critical
programs and projects associated with sustainable poverty reduction. In this
context, it will be important that the authorities continue their efforts aimed at
building a broad-based consensus in favor of a prudent public sector wage policy.
88. To mitigate these risks, IDA will continue to work closely with the donor community and
civil society in assisting the Government to stay the course on the reform agenda, and to use
donor assistance to redress social concerns through improved governance and strengthened
key institutions. The parallel PSTAC by IDA, complementing the intensive efforts of other
donors, will also provide resources for technical assistance for institutional development that
will be essential for successful implementation of the PRSC. An important factor working in
27



favor of the PRSP/PRSC is the process itself, which has its roots in the participatory approach
which guided the drafting of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. This process cuts across
ethnic and social barriers to address problems common to all groups, and hence helped reduce
social tensions. To the extent that this process can be continued through the PRSP
implementation process, including through more participatory performance monitoring
arrangements, it could be a key risk mitigation measure. Finally, the programmatic nature of
future IDA PRSCs and continued close donor cooperation will help maintain the importance
and emphasis that the Government places on continuing with its poverty reduction reforms.
28



GUYANA - POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
Table of Contents
ANNEXES
I.    Letter of Development Policy
II.   Policy Matrix
m.    Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
IV.   Linkage of PRSC to PRSP, and Other Donor Support
V.    Environmental Analysis
VI.   Monitoring and Evaluation
VII. Indigenous Peoples in Guyana
vyI. Summary of CFAA Report
IX.   Country Procurement Assessment - Plan of Action
X.    Details of Other Donor Programs
XI.   Fund Relations Note
XII. Guyana Selected Economic Indicators
XIII. IDA and IFC Portfolio
XIV. Guyana at a Glance
XV.   Map
29






Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex I                                  I.1
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
REPLYING QUOTE DATE                                             Main & Urquhart Streets.
EREOF AND No  .........                                          Geoetown,
Guyana.
LE1TER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
October 31, 2002
M1r. James Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    I am writing to request on behalf on the Government of the Republic of Guyana,
a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) of US $ 12 Millio n equivalent in support of
our Povertv Reduction Strategy (PRS). This letter sets out the actions that Government
will undertalke over the medium term to implement the strategy, focusing on measures
that will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of Govenument Operations, resulting in
improved service delivery, particularly to the poor. In addition, I am attaching a policy
matrix we have prepared in collaboration with the IDA team and other donors and
wvhich sets out the contents of this letter in summary form.
2.    The prioritisation process in the attached incorporates critical time constraints on
the various actions and outputs described herein. Completion of the actions and
achievement of the outputs shown in bold typeface in the matrix by October 30 2002 is
considered critical to the success of our reforms. Therefore, we propose these actions atnd
outputs as specific benchmarks for PRSC 1. The remaining actions and outputs represent
our vision of the ongoing process and our best c-urrent estimate of timelines for
completion of those actiotis and outputs listed for the subsequent two years.
Background and recent Developments
3.    The overriding objective of Goverinment policy is the reduction of poverty in
Guyana. Guyana's first national comprehensive strategy, the National Development
Strategy (NDS), which was completed in 1997 and revised by civil society in 2000, has
guiided Govemment in the preparation of sector wide approaches to policy reform and
improving the focus of the three-year rolling investment prograrnming in the fight
against poverty.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex I                                 1.2
4.    The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which was endorsed by the
Boaris of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in September 2002. is
directlv linked to the NDS in the areas of cconomic policy, good governance,
infrastructure development and improvement in social seLvices. Even so, the NDS has
its limitations as it does not contain (i) an action plan for implementation; (ii) costing;
(iii) financing requirements; and (iv) sources of financing. The PRSP addresses these
issues. In addition, the PRSP focuses on ways of improving efficiency and delivery of
public services, improved management systems and practices in the public sector,
including improved finiancial accountability, and broad based participation of civil
society in monitoring and evaluation of poverty reducing programs. Government is
requesting the Poverty Reduction Support Credit fronm the World Bank to support its
reforms in these areas and to help finance implementation of the PRSP. The reform
programme outlined below will help ensure the success of the PRSP.
The Reform Programme
6.    Guyana's PRSP is structured around seven oVerarching pillars: -
* Broad-based, job generating economic growth;
*  Environmental protection;
* Strong institutions and better governance;
* Investment in human capital, with empihasis on basic education and
primary health;
* Investment in physical capital, with emphasis on better and broader
provision of safe water and sanitation services, farm-to-market roads,
drainage and irrigation systems, and housing;
* Improved safety nets; and
* Special intervention programmes
7.    The selected policy reform measures set out below are grouped under the four
broad headings namely (i) improving business envirornment and compctitivencss; (ii)
strengthening institutions and governance; (iii) investing in human capital; (iv)
addressing regional pockets of poverty and improving safety nets.
Improving business environment and competitiveness
S.    Given the evidence of strong positive correlation between growth and poverty
reduction in Guyana, the poverty strategy is predicated on broad-based, labour-
intensive economic growth. Towards this end, the Government is taking several
measures including maintaining a sustainable macroeconomic framework, expaniding
the economic base, restructuring and modernizing the traditional sectors witlh the
objective of improving the business environment.
2



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex I                                   1.3
A. .laintaining a sustainable macroecononicfranicewo*
9.    Government regards continued macroeconomic stabilitv as critical for a
framcwork that promotes growth. Since 1990 tihe tax system has gone through a series of
reforms aimed at reducing the substantial fiscal imbalances that arose during the
previous decade. ThIe reforms were designed to broaden lhe revenue base, iniprove
compliance, and remove distortions associated with the previously complex tax system.
Reforms inclutied conversion of all specific consumption taxes to ad valorem taxes,
elimination of exemption of state corporations from consumption taxes and a rcduction
in the number of tax rates from 14 to 3. The tariff structure for imports was simplified,
the share of exem>pted imports reduced, the market exchange rate adopted for Customs
purposes, and the operations of the Customs and Inland Revenue Departments were
merged under the newly created semi-autonomous Revenue Authority.
10.   Notwithstanding these reforms, the revenue yield has stagnated as a percentage
of GDP since 1995 despite rising expenditures, as the tax system is still characterized by
high rates, a narrow tax base and weak administration. Against this backdrop an1d
cognizant of its current and prospective regional tiade arrangements, the Government
has completed a tax study with the objective of broadening the tax base, reducing the
incidence of distortionary taxes and increasing revenue collectioin. The Government will
begin implernenting its tax reform action plan in 2003. In addition, the Government is
implementing reforms to control expenditures and improve thle efficiency of resource
utilization through institutionalisinig programme budgeting in all line ministries and
government agencies by 2006. Fiscal policy will be complemented by prudent monetary
policy with the objective of maintaining price and exchange rate stability.
B. Restructuriii traditio'nal economic sectors
II.   In the past, the minhirg, forestry and sugar sectors have served Gtyana well. In
recent years, however, erosion of preferential trade arrangements in sugar, low and
declining levels of investments in the mining and forestry sectors, and the increasing
urgency in diversifying and seeking new areas of economic growth and opportunities
have combined to heighten the urgency in undertaking fundamental reforms to improve
the business environment and competitiveness. To this end, the Govemnment is
implementing r eforms to improve the profitabilitv and sustainability of the sugar sector.
Suclh reforms include constructioln of a new sugar mill, reduction of redundant labour,
implementation of a new wage policy that is based on inflation and profitability, and
revision of private management contract that shift performance indicators to
profitability targets.
12.   In the bauxite-mining sector, the Government has taken steps to conclude
privatisation by end-December 2002. In the event that the privatisation and is not
concluded Govemment is committed to restructuring the bauxite operations so as to
eliminate transfers used to cover recurrent operational losses in 2003 and beyvond.
3



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex I                                 I.4
Already. the two bauxite cntilies, Aroaima and Bermine, hlave been restructured and
merged resulting in the reetrcnclhment of over 500 workers. In addition, the Govemment
has reviewed existing mining and forestry laws with a view of updating them in 2003
and 2004 and, thus, making thc sector attractive to dircct foreign investment.
13.   The Government is also taking steps to improve the financial sector and make it
supportive of private sector development. In line uith this, the Government is (i)
implementing arrangements for supervision of the New Building Society based on the
Financial Institutions Act; (ii) developing policy and operational guidelines for a
Financial Stabilitv Unit within the Central Bank; and (iii) implementing a comprehensive
hutnan resource strategy to strengtlhen Banking Supervision Department of the central
bank. In addition, the Government has made substantial progress in privatising the
Guyana National Cooperative Bank by end-December 2002. Bids received for GNCB is
being evaluated.
Strengthening institutions anid governance
14.   Conisistent with these initiatives, the Government is implementing reforms
intended to improve (i) transparency and accountability, (ii) financial management
capacity of the public sector; and (iii) strengthening local governments to improve local
service delivery in key sectors.
15.   In thre area of accountability and transparency, the Goveniment has passed an
amended Procurement and Tenders Act and has created the National Procurement and
Tender Administration Secretariat and appointed relevant staff. It is currently
implementing a menu of reforms agreed with the World Bank in the Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) including the preparation of the rules and
regulations and new standard bidding documents so as to make the new law effective.
The Government has also committed to undertake public consultations on the new
procurement Jaw with a view to amending it by end-December 2002.
16.   In improving the financial management capacity of the public sector, the
Government has drafted a new Audit Law consistent witlh the provisions of the
Constitutional Amendment of 2000. This law will be enacted in 2003. In addition, the
Government will implement reforms to (i) strengthen the Auditor General's Department
with respect to staffiigi salaries and training; (ii) establish financial oversight of tlhe
public sector within the existing Economic Affairs Sector Committee of Parliament; and
(iii) improve public disclosure of financial affairs of public officials.
17.   To strengtlhen the local government system, the Government has undertaken the
revaluation of immovable properties in four municipalities and has re-instituted the
power to local government bodies to seize and sell real estate of tax defaulters. In
addition, the Government is vigorously enforcing the auditing of accounts of local
4



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex I                                1.5
government bodies so as to ensure transparcncy and accountability in their financial
dealings.
Investing in human capital
18.   ln addition to improving the business environment, competitiveness and good
governance, the Government is also committed to investing in its human capital. The
key areas of reforms will centre around, health, education, water and housing.
A. Health
19.   Although some key health indicators have improved somewhat in recent years,
Guyana still has some of the poorest hidicators of healtlh status in the Western
Hemisphere. Maternal and in fant mortalities are high, the prevalence and incidence of
HIV/AIDs is one of the highest in the Caribbean, and commtuicable and chronic
diseases are major causes of death.
20.   In recognition of these problems, the Govemment is (i) curbing the spread of the
HIV epidemic through the scaling up of programmes and activities targeted to high risk
groups; (ii) expanding public awareness aboutHIV/AJDs among the general population;
and (iii) strengthening the institutional capacity and sustainability of the HIV/AIDs
programmes.
21.   To this end, the Governtment has formulated and approved a National Strategic
Plan for HIV/AIDs, established a programmne management unit including the
appointment of core staff within the Ministry of Health to coordinate inter-agency
programs, and strengthened the National I-HIV/AIDs Secretariat with experts from the
Centers of Disease Control and Prevention. In addition, the Government is reformring
the healtlh system by introducing private sector management in the main referral
hospital and improving the procurement, storage and delivery of medical supplics.
Further, a National Nutrition Programtne has beeni developed and is being implemented
with the objective of expanding the school feed program and expanding services to
pregnant and lactating women.
B     Education
22.   ln education, reforms are underway not only to improve the quality of education
at all levels of the school system, increasing access to the poor, reducing dropouts and
improving teacher training but also to establish improved financial management system
for better resource allocation and accountability anti equity in the allocation of
educational resources to regions. In line with thiis, the Government has approved
National Education Strategic Plan 2003-2007with an accompanying action plan that
seeks, among other things, to improve physical facilities, increase educational supplies,
provide financial and non financial assistance to needy families and to monitor
5



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex I                                  1.6
performance indicators includinig repetition rates, enrolment ratios, absenteeism, and
non teachier recurrent expenditures. In addition, the Government has designed a
formula based svstem for allocation of financial resources antd his selected 6 pilot
scihools for trials. Further, a preliminarv version of accounting, resource transfer,
financial reporting and auditing procedures will be implemented in 2003.
C.    Wnter
23.   In water, ilhe medium term strategy is cantered on improving the quality and
delivery of services, ensuring good and effective regulation of the sector, and
implementing a subsidy programme to help poor households connect to the system
ancd/or pay a portion of their monthly bill. Therefore, emphasis is placed on establishing
sustainable institutional arrangements for the wvater sector, improving the quality,
efficiency and sustainability of water service provision, and expanding overall access of
water supply to 95 percent of the population.
24.   Consistent with these objectives, the Government is implementing new legal and
regulatory framework through the passage of a New Water Act, issuance of operating
licence for the Guyana Water Inc. and revising of the bylaws to govern the operations of
the water agency. In addition, the Government has established national watcr quality
standards, completed the merger of the two existing water utilities, and tendered for a
management contract for a private operator of Guyana Water Inc. Finally, the
Government has adjusted tariffs and subsidies of Guyana Water and will eliminate
recurrent transfers to the sector.
Safety Nets
25.   The effective implementation of the growth strategy including restructuring and
modernization of key industries combined with high unemployment rates and social
instability provide a basis for developing and implementinig a robtst safety net program
to cushion the impact of adjustment and reforms. Even so, the institutional capacity in
managing a social safety program is weak.
26.   To this end, the Government will strengthen the capacitv of the Ministry of
Labour, Human Services and Social SecuritY to assist it to manage its old pension, public
assistance and difficult circumstances programmes and will develop new programmes
that include the incorporation of retrenched workers inlto a social welfare programmes
for a limited period. Towards this end, the Ministry will improve its awareness and
outreach programmes to increase coverage of its programmes. Further, Government will
take steps to improve the focus of SLMAP and BNTF by adopting an improved poverty
map based on the latest available surveys, including thze 2002 Census.
6



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex I                                1.7
Monitoring and Evaluation
27.   To effectively and timelv implemcnt its PRS, the Government of Guyana has
cstablished thie Program Coordination and Policy Monitoring Unit (PCPMIU) at the
Office of the President.
28.   The PCPIMU is charged with (i) coordinating PRS programs across donors, tine
ministries, and civil society; (ii) identifying constrainits and lessons learned in the
implementation poverty reduction programme, uncdertaking policy analysis and
proposing recommendations in improving the framework of programme
implementation; (iii) monitoring PRS structural reforms within the context of the
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PHSC) and the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facilitv (PRGF)
29.   The institutional framework for the implementation of the poverty prograunme
will rest on 2 blocks. The first block is the central government with emphasis on the line
ministries and agencies and the second block is civil society. The PCPMNU will be headed
by a coordinator, and will consist of a monitoring and evaluation and a policy units.
30.   Monitoring and evaluation (MtE) processes require strengtlhening in order for
stakeholders to determnine more easily whether the effectiveness of public service
delivery is increasing and the pace of poverty reduction is m-aintained. The
Government's monitoring and evaluation of thc implementation of its PRSP will build
on the principles of the participatory processes anud will draw on international good
practices.
31,   The Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will act as a catalyst across
government and civil society for a comprehensive and inclusive program of monitoring
and evaluation of the goals an-d indicators set forth in the PRSP. The M&E unit's
responisibilities include coordinating monitoring and evaluation responsibilities across
government, building capacities of key ministries and agencies witlh PRSP
responsibilities and of Citizens Groups at the community level; tracking key policy
reforns of tlhe PRSP, PRSC and HIPC; and promoting broad-based dissemination of
PRSP activities and progress.
32.   To support the work of the M&E Unit, a Steering Committee has been
established to provide overall guidance on <and oversight of the monitoring and
evaluation program of the PRSP. The Steering Committee will also conduct public
review and consultation on the annual Poverty Progress Report produced by the PMEU.
The Steering Comrnittee comprises representatives from the civil societv.
33.   The PRSP in particular calls for studies that track public expenditures and
provide information on whiclh population groups are benefiting from public spending.
7



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex I                                  1.8
It also calls for continued "public debate on the composition of expenditures." In this
regard, the M&E unit will work with line ministrics to strengthen reporting by
ministries anid agencies on financial performance and linkages with outputs and
outcomes, to disclose this information, and to encourage broad-based discussion on the
findings and policy implications.
34.   Drawiiig on the various M&E initiatives in the ministries and agencies, the M&E
Unit will collect roultin monitoring data on a quarterly basis and specialized M&E
studies as they become available. These inputs will form the basis for the M&E Unit's
preparation of Guyana's annual poverty progress report on1 the PRSP.
3D.   The M&E Unit will pilot a community-based M&E programme in four regions.
The communities will be selected for participation in the pilot based on their
inivolvement in PRSP initiatives in 2003 and 2004. The programrne will work in
partnership  with  community-based  and  other  local instittutions, including
Neighbourlhood  Development Councils, Comrrunitv Development Committees,
religious organisations, women's groups and youth groups. The facilitators' role will
include helping communities to access information about local development initiatives;
building local capacity fOT organizing and monitoring commnunity improvement
projects; and helping communities establish ties with relevant service delivery agencies.
36.   The M&E Unit will design and execute a communications strategy to ensure that
the information generated on progress toward the PRSP's goals and indicators is widely
available. The strategy may include such activities as creating and maintaining a
website, conducting media traininig and press briefings for national and regional
correspondents, and convening regional and local level public consultations on PRSP
progress.
Conclusion
37.   1 would like to take this opportunity to reiterate Government's commitnent to
the implementation of the PRSP. The actions to be undertaken over the medium term
unlder each PRSP pillar focus on measures that will improve, through greater efficiency
and effectiveness, both the quantity and quality of service delivery, particularly to the
poor.
38.   Increased efficiency of service delivety implies improved management systems
and practices in the public sector, including improved financial accountability.
Improved effectiveness of service delivcry requires closer alignment between outcomes
and policy objectives through greater focus on service outputs during budiget
preparation. The requested Credit is expected to support the critical Government
reforms set out in this letter and to enable achievement of those objectives.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex I                                    1.9
39. On behalf of the Govcrmment of Guyana, I wish to thank the IDA for the assistance
already provided under the past Structural Adjustment Credits and various
development projects. These supports have been critical in assisting the Government
to substantially reduce the incidence of poverty in the decade of the 1990s. I trust
that this request for additional assistance through the proposed PRSCI will receive
your favourable considerationL
Yours sincerely,
Saisnarine Kowles
Minister of Finance






Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                         II.1
ANNEX II
GUYANA - POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
PRSP OBJECTIVE         PRSC-I                     PRSC-II                PRSC - IN          PROGRES               OTHER DONORS
I NDICATOIRS    
Curb the spread of  Formulation and approval  Establish management  Conduct an        -   reduction in new   CIDA
10W' the HIV epidemic   by Government of a         arrangements for the   assessment of         HIV/AIDS           USAID
through the scaling  national strategic plan for  implementation of  status of the        infection rates    PAHO
up of programs and  HV/AIADS                 HlV/AIDs program       HIV/AIDS           -  % of adults
activities targeted                           including program      program               knowing how to
to high-risk groups; Establish a program         execution through                            prevent HIV/AIDS
-.<t expand awareness  management unit in the   multiple ministries,                     -   % of women
% ^ >  about HIV/AIDS   Ministry of Health        NGOs, community                              receiving prenatal
among the general  (National AIDS            groups and civil society                     care who are tested
population; and    Programme Secretariat)    organizations.                               for HIV;
. strengthen         and appoint core staff.                                             -   % of districts with
.    institutional                                Establish program                            voluntary
r64.$" capacity to ensure                          costing and financial                        counseling and
2¢Gf the effectiveness                             protocols.                                  testing services.
and sustainability
.  of the effort                             Develop institutional
arrangements for
program monitoring and
impact evaluation.
HIV/AIDS project
prepared and presented
Efi                                                for IDA financing under
the regional HIV/AIDS
APL;
-   first year action plan
approved;
-   operational manual
approved



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                          II.2
PRSP OBJECTIVE          PRSC-I                     PRSC-lI                PRSC - III          PROGRESS             OTHER DONORS
I INDICATORS
4 Improve quality of  Develop action plan,      Expand the coverage of  Continued         -   Number and % of    IDB
education at all  including monitoring and    SMIS (School           coverage expansion    CXC passes by      CDB
-   levels; increase   incentive mechanism, for   Information             of SMIS              region;             CIDA
.    access by the poor;  reaching PRSP goals in   Management System) in                    -   % of primary       DFID
- reduce dropouts   terms of reduced repetition  order to strengthen                         school entrants
and improve        rates in primary schools,  monitoring & tracking                        reaching grade 6 by
teacher training.  increased enrolment in     capacity, and equity.                        region
secondary schools, reduced                                           -  Average teacher
overcrowding, reduced      Actively promote       Continued              and student
.. q.; -             absenteeism of students and  stakeholder participation  promotion of    absenteeism (%) by
teachers, increased non-   at the school level    stakeholder           region.
teacher recurrent          through the organization  participation   -   Gross enrollment
expenditures, and          and strengthening of                          and repetition rates
- ..                  improvements in teacher     school board or                              (primary and
training.                  equivalent mechanism.                         secondary) by
region
,                                               Construction of new     Continued         -   Student/trained-
schools / rehabilitation  construction of    teacher ratio
,  .                                           of existing schools     new schools /         (primary and
according to the action  rehabilitation of    secondary) by
plan                   existing schools      region
:                                                                                        -   Salaries as % of
Increase the number of  Continued increase   total and recurrent
t.' ,r"                                         trained teachers through  of the number of    education budget at
pre-service and in-    trained teachers       national and
l.                                                  service training                             regional level.
j -                                                                                           -   % of school with
;--                                             Increase the availability  Continued increase  school board or
of textbooks and other  of the availability  equivalent
learning materials to  of text books and     mechanism by
students               other learning        region
materials.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                             II.3
PRSP OBJECTIVE          PRSC-1                      PRSC-II                 PRSC - m            PROGRESS              OTHER DONORS
INDICATORS
Establish improved  Design a formula based     Prepare and undertake   Submit reports on  Number of pilot trials
|   financial         system for allocation of    pilot trials in 6 schools  operations of pilot  undertaken.
management         financial resources to      in 2 regions.           sites, increase
system for better  schools.                                            number of test
;  resource allocation                                                   sites.
and accouintability  Complete system design and  Establish preliminary
at the school level.  the.selection of pilot   version of accounting,  Establish
implementation sites.      resource transfer,      independent audit
financial reporting and  of 2003 results;
auditing procedures     have presentation
of financial results
of test sites in an
open-to-public
forum.
Select sites of
extension of the
pilot to a larger
number of schools



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex H                                                                                         11.4
PRSP OBJECrIVE                PRSC-I                 PRSC-II              PRSC-III        PROGRESS            OTHER
I                                          I INDICATORS          DONORS
.z' Y a StRONUER PuBLI T-itli       AM    BEi9MRGOV9RNANCE       -           -          .1      .,
Z    Improve          EsLablish a new Policy    PCPNIU established    PCPMLI funcuioning.  Appointment of staff  DFID
0. effectiveness of   Coordination and          and fuctioning,                           of PCPMU, effective
:   public sector     Program Management                                                  functioning of unit.
w*   management, and  Unit (PCPMU) in the
.    monitoring of     Office of the President,
> _   progress under    consisting of a Monitoring
PRSP              & Evaluation and Policy
units. Appoint coordinator
and core staff to, inter alia,
oversee implementation
and monitoring of the     Monitoring plan being  Monitoring plan being  Timely reporting on
PRSP.                    implemented.          implemented.         PRSP progress with
civil society        DFID
o; O .                Agree to carry out overall                                          participation in     IDB
monitoring and evaluation                                           monitoring and
-v-  .                  plan (as shown in Annex                                             evaluation.
VI), which includes civil
society participation.
Implementation of plan  Implementation of  Improved quality and
with help of external  plan with external  timeliness of statistics
Approve plan to strengthen  technical assistance.  technical assistance.
the Bureau of Statistics,
supported by IDA TAC
UNDP
Sweden



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                        II.5
PRSP OBJECTIVE                PRSC-I                 PRSC-II              PRSC-III        PROGRESS            OTHER
INDICATORS           DONORS
Keep public salary  Agree with IMF on the  Agree on a             Keep wage increase  Salary adjustments   IDB
i>1 adjustments with   total amount to be spent  mechanism for future  within agreed limits.  within range of
range that is     on public sector wages in  public sector wage                       inflation and
.    fiscally.,        the budget for 2002.     adjustments, and                           productivity.
t2. i!3'sustainable, and                          apply to increases for
based,o6ithe.,                               2003.
increases iof
FKinflatkion, andol



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                       II.6
PRSP OBJEcTivE               PRSC-I                  PRSC-l              PRSC.III       PROGRESS             OTHER
._________________                                     INDICATORS          DONORS
rr'si ; tImprove the     National Procurement Act  Pass amended version  New laws and       Availability of     IDB
,.Zj<. .accountability and  2002 has been passed by  of National       regulations fully    procurement
>Xn t  . transparency of  the National Assembly.   Procurement Act.      operational.        information to the
Guyana's public                                                                      general public.
procurement       Circular No. 0802 regarding  Appoint members of  Standard bidding
o ;  .,, system.         administrative procedures  the Public Procurement  documents enforces
has been issued by the   Committee(PPC) and    nationwide.
Ministry of Finance.     its secretariat.
Training program
Create National          Introduce and pass    continues.
Procurement and Tender   enabling legislation to
Administration (NPTA)    operationalize PPC.   Complete
Secretariat and appoint                       implementation of
required staff.          Adopt and             public information
disseminate new rules  system.
and regulations to
make Procurement
Act effective.
Prepare and adopt
standard bidding
documents and
evaluation criteria for
both national and
regional tenders.
Appoint members of
the NPTB.
Start nationwide
training program.
Start implementation of
public information
system.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex 11                                                                                          11.7
PRSP OBJEcTrVE                PRSC-I                  PRSC-II              PRSC-LH         PROGRESS             OTHER
I_INDICATORS          DONORS
. Improve the financial  Prepare draft of new      Enact new Audit Act   Implementation of   Reduced lag between   IDB
z. management capacity   National Audit Act.       and begin             new Audit Act.      end of year and
S    of the public sector                          implementing its                          production of audits;
Agree on a program to     provisions                                Higher quality of
implement the findings of                                           audits.
the CFAA report (see
4                        Annex VIII), including:   Implement agreed      Implement agreed
1. A program to          programs based on     programs.           Improved reporting of  CIDA
strengthen the Auditor   CFAA                                      public officials assets
z                         General's Department,    recommendations.                          and assessability
e                         with respect to staffing,
salaries and training;                                             Increased transparency
2. Establishment of                                                and improved
financial oversight of the                                         functioning of some
public sector within the                                           government agencies.
existing Economic
Affairs Committee of the                                           Economic Affairs
Parliament.                                                        Committee providing
3. 3. Analysis of ways to                                           effective budget
reduce discretionality in 6  Take steps to integrate                oversight.
government agencies;      capital and recurrent
4. Take steps to make     expenditures, and
effective the             introduce program
Government's policy of    budgeting in at least  Further implement  Program budgeting
public disclosure of the  two ministries (GEMP  GEMP program;       introduced in
financial affairs of by   program).            introduce program    government agencies
public officials.                               budgeting in        and effective; better
Parliament approval of  additional ministries.  coordination between
new Financial                             capital and recurrent
Administration Act.                       expenditures.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex n                                                                                             II.8
PRSP OBJECTIVE                 PRSC-I                  PRSC-II              PRSC.I1         PROGRESS             OTHER
INDICATORS           DONORS
:   Strengthen local     Complete revaluation of    Issue report of Local  Clearly define the                       USAID
governments and      immovable properties in   Government Task        function domains of                       IDB
make them viable as  four municipalities in    Force, and hold        local government
-r  institutions of self-  Guyana; begin process of  adequate            tiers, increase the
.   government in order  incorporating revised     consultations.        function
to improve local-    valuations into tax rolls.                      responsibilities of
.  level service delivery                         Begin revaluation of  LGs, and devolve, as
in key sectors.                                immovable properties   appropriate, some
C    Empower                                       for remaining          key central
. . communities to                                municipalities.        government controls
z    monitor and                                                          over regional
influence decisions.                           Revise LG laws to:     functions to RDCs.
1. Implement a
system of self-   Revise the conditions
accounting where  of service for LG
each local        staff; in consultation
government        with regions.
holds individual
0                                                       accounts.
2. Allow NDCs to
hold property
users and
proprietors liable
for taxes



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                           II.9
PRSP OBJECTIVE                PRSC-I                  PRSC-II              PRSC-mI         PROGRESS              OTHER
INDICATORS           DONORS
.   Improve the         Re-institute the power to  Develop a simple     Continued            More dynamic         IDB
;^   intergovernmental    seize and sell real property  formula-based system  application of  budgetary decision
z   fiscal framework     of tax defaulters (re-    for providing         formula based       making process,
>., Y between the center  institute sections of law  subventions from     approach to         improved allocative
and sub-national     28.01 and 28.02 which     central government to  subventions.       efficiency, budget
'  governments.         have been suspended)      local government                          flexibility, higher
(LG) units            Develop and         levels of local tax
implement a program  collection, and greater
of training for LG  responsibility given to
representatives and  local level
Enforce auditing      citizens groups in  governments
protocols of local    rights, roles and
. -.                                                government bodies      obligations of local
govemments and
Agree on a mechanism  citizens.
so that citizens can
access the financial  Allocate subventions
L"                                                 records of LGs and    to local governments
:minutes and voting   based on agreed
records of LG         formula.
meetings.
Complete valuation
of all properties
1-- - I



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                            I1.10
PRSP OBJECIVE                 PRSC-I                 PRSC-II               PRSC- m               PROGRESS         OTHER
I  I  INDICATORS       DONORS
fIILJ     BROADoE.ZND BIErg   PUSIInIIN OF BASxC SER1CE .-I;  ,.,, ~. - :                   .    ,                        y zN -I
Establish sustainable  Implement new legal    Satisfactory           Public Utilities     Effective enforcement  CDB
institutional        and regulatory           implementation of the  Commnission takes    of national water     DFID
arrangements for     framework through        legal and regulatory   over sector regulation  quality standards and  IDB
water sector         passage of new water act  framework as per the                       agreements under the  EU
and issuance of          new water act,                              management contract-
operating license for    including capacity
Guyana Water and new     building for key
regulations             institutions.
Improve the quality,  Establish national water  Maintain pricing and  Maintain pricing and  Non revenue water to
efficiency and       quality standards        subsidy agreements so  subsidy agreements   fall to 40%
c    sustainability of                            as to achieve 100% cost  and 100% cost
-water service       Complete merger of two   recovery for Operation  recovery for Operation  Guyana Water
provision            existing utilities, forming  and Maintenance    and Maintenance.     Collection efficiency
Guyana Water             expenditures.                               to reach 78% by June
2004
Management contract
for private operator of
Guyana Water has been
tendered and a
preferred bidder has
been selected.
Tariffs adjusted and
subsidy levels for 2002
. __________________   agreed



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                           .1
PRSP OBJECTIVE               PRSC-I                 PRSC-H                PRSC-HI              PROGRESS        OTHER
INDICATORS       DONORS
Expand overall                               Create Hinterland unit  Implement Hinterland  Access to water supply
access to water                             in Guyana Water and    strategy              in hinterland on track
supply to 95% of the                         have it in operation                        to achieve 80%
population with                                                                         coverage in 2007
special emphasis on                          Implement second      Implement third phase
the poor and                                 phase of water supply  squatter settlements  Increase in number of
rural/hinterland                             program for poor      water supply program  inhabitants of squatter
communities                                 squatter developments                        settlements provided
with water supply



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                       II.12
PRSP OBJECTIVE               PRSC-I                PRSC-IIH             PRSC-III             PROGRESS       |OTHER
I                       I                     I .                 |I   INDICATORS        DONORS
AJ.        A   .                ,                               -                .*.;.'W.N. EC
Accelerate economic     Agreement on a       Adherence to program  Adherence to program  Adherence to targets  IMF
*. - growth while maintaining  macro-economic                                              as set by IMF
"  ',F fiscal soundness of public  program with                                            program.
accounts and price      performance targets
stability              for fiscal and Balance
of Payments deficits,
0                            monetary growth (in
context of IMF
PRGF)



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                          II. 13
PRSP OBJECTIVE                PRSC-I                 PRSC-II              PRSC-EI              PROGRESS         OTHER
INDICATORS       DONORS
Establish a enabling    Complete overall      Develop a timetable  Full implementation of  Higher level of tax  USAID
Z    environment that        review of tax system  for the implementation  tax study.         collection.          UNDP
> - encourages private       and administration    of findings of tax                                              IMF
F.   investment.             with IMF assistance,  study.
with a view to:                                                 A tax system that is
* Broadening tax                                                more transparent and
base;                                                        even across tax payers.
* Reducing rates;
;                          * Improving tax
administration,                                              More investment in
- . .including                                                                            mining and forestry
enhanced                                                    sectors, with greater
transparency in                                              attention to forestry
the application of                                           aspects.
the tax system to
.                             private investors.
Introduce and pass   Introduce and pass
:   i                     Review laws           Amended Forestry     Amended Mining
governing mining and  Law, after           Law, after
forestry sectors to  undertaking           undertaking
ensure that they     appropriate public    appropriate public
provide adequate     consultations.        consultations.
incentives for
investors, as well as  Redraft mining law
sufficient           and undertake sector
environmental        environmental
protection. Begin    assessment.
* .~                       drafting new Forestry
Law.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                          11.14
PRSP OBJECTIVE                PRSC-I                 PRSC-II              PRSC-M               PROGRESS         OTHER
I                       I                                                INDICATORS        DONORS
.Improve the profitability,  Ffull environmental  Eliminate sugar levy  Complete construction  Average unit    DFID
productivity and        impact assessment for  and substitute      of Skeldon sugar mill  production cost     CDB
sustainability of the sugar  the new Skeldon sugar  dividend scheme                      indicator
-   sector                 mill and associated                        Satisfactory
land development has  Complete agreement   compliance with      Increased share of
been conducted.       between GoG and      GoG/GUYSUCO          private cane farmer
GUYSUCO on sector    agreement             production in Skeldon
Issue tender for      performance and
construction of       profitability.       Initiate tender for  GUYSUCO overall
7;                  ~~~~~~~~Skeldon sugar mill;                 management contract  and estate profitability
agree to provide any  Revise current                            indicator
needed                management contract  Successful
environmental         and shift performance  implementation of
mitigation for new   indicators to measures  GUYSUCO land
land development      of profitability     divestiture program
affecting natural
habitats.             Amend Cane Payment
System Act
Agreement with                             Implement
Government on a       Complete             Environmental
three year program    Environmental Impact  Management Plan for
to reduce redundant   Assessment of        Skeldon mill and land
workers and to limit  Skeldon Mill and land  development,
salaries and bonuses  development,         including any needed
in the sugar sector.  including an agreed  natural habitats
Environmental         mitigation measures.
Management Plan,
before signing civil
works contract.
Base worker
remuneration and
bonuses on inflation
and productivity gains



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                                                                                  11.15
PRSP OBJECTIVE              PRSC-I               PRSC.II              PRSC-Il           PROGRESS       OTHER
INDICATORS      DONORS
Develop and
implement
GUYSUCO land
divesture program.
-" .. 






Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex III                             Hi.1
Annex III
POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT ANALYSIS
I.    INTRODUCTION
The Proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) will support the reform
agenda outlined in the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). In order
to better understand the potential impact of major reforms on poverty reduction and the
poor, the analytical framework of a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) is used to
review the proposed policy and institutional changes in the water, sugar and bauxite
sectors, with a special section on labor retrenchment. This review is a first phase in the
PSIA aimed at identifying key impacts for each sector and more general issues related to
possible employment effects and outlining what additional analysis/action would be
beneficial to ensure successful mitigation of undesired effects on Guyana's poor.
On balance, the reforms under the PRSP will have a net positive impact on
poverty and social conditions in Guyana -- especially in the medium and long term -- if
successfully implemented. The objectives of Guyana's program of reforms are key to its
poverty reduction strategy. They include support for: broad-based, jobs-generating
economic growth; environmental protection; stronger institutions and better governance;
investment in human capital, with emphasis on basic education and health; investment in
physical capital; improved safety nets; and special intervention programs to address
regional pockets of poverty. Implementation of improved governance and public sector
accountability, particularly at the local government level, will contribute to the success of
the strategy.
The proposed reforms of the water sector and sugar and bauxite industries involve
modernization and restructuring strategies, and in the case of bauxite, shifting the
industry from the public sector to private sector ownership and operation. Higher levels
of efficiency and strengthened management along with new investment are expected to
lead to improved profitability and increased Government revenue.  Financial
sustainability for the water sector will reduce current Government transfers to the sector
about .5% of GDP in 2001) and focus new spending on achieving universal access to
water supply and ensuring affordability in the context of full cost recovery by carefully
targeting subsidies to the poorest consumers. Similarly, Government spending to cover
operating losses for the bauxite industry and subsidies for services in Linden (1.5% of
GDP in 2001) will be eliminated through LINMINE's privatization. In sugar, sizeable
variation in costs across GUYSUCO's production facilities has meant the selling of some
sugar at prices below their marginal cost of production. The 2000 analysis of the sugar
industry estimated the cost of maintaining non-profitable estates at roughly 2% of GDP.
When this level of Government expenditure is combined, its reallocation to pro-poor
spending will make a significant contribution to poverty reduction.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex III                             m. 2
In the process of carrying out these reforms, there may be some potentially
adverse impacts on specific groups in the population in the short-term, or indirect impacts
that will need to be examined more carefully and mitigated wherever possible. Of
particular concern are possible employment cutbacks in inefficient areas of the sugar and
bauxite industries. For the purposes of the PSIA, the stakeholders identified include
individuals, households, and both public and private institutions, with the focus of the
analysis being primarily poor individuals and households.
II.   REFORM OF THE WATER SECTOR9
Improving the access, quality, efficiency and regulation of water supply and
sanitation services has been identified as a high priority in the PRSP and a key reform
area under the PRSC. The main issues in the sector include inadequate access to potable
water supply, especially for poor urban and rural communities, the absence of water
quality standards and no treatment of water supply, large water losses (about 70% of all
water produced), and insufficient cost recovery which has led to inadequate levels of
investment for network expansion and neglected and deteriorated infrastructure. There is
also a lack of a coherent and integrated water resource policy, a multiple utility structure
which is high cost and inefficient and no clear regulatory or supervisory function for
water supply and sanitation services.
In late 1999, the Government initiated a thorough analysis of the sector through a
study by a consortium of firms led by KPMG and financed by UK DFID. To support the
analysis and the implementation of the study's findings, a Government/donor steering
group was formed of active donors in the sector, led by DFID and supported by the
AIDA. The reform program subsequently put in place by the Government supports:
*     A new legal, institutional and regulatory framework created through a new Water
Bill, including the introduction for the first time of national water quality
standards and a National Water Council to direct water resource management
policy;
*     Merger of the two existing utilities (GS&WC and GUYWA) into a single national
company;
*     Private sector management of the new company through a five-year management
contract, which contains the requirement for a special strategy and unit to handle
hinterland supply and sanitation issues;
*     Implementation of a full cost recovery strategy for the sector, reducing
generalized operating and capital subsidies and targeting Government transfers to
the poorest consumers; and
*     A sector investment program designed to rationalize existing production facilities
to lower operating costs while introducing water treatment and disinfect ion along
with rehabilitation and expansion of the transmission and distribution networks to
provide universal access to supply by 2007.
9 This section draws mainly on a comprehensive study carried out by KPMG, January 2000, Guyana Water
and Sanitation Sector Study, mimeo. For this study, a consumer survey was carried out covering 900
households, as well as focus groups in selected areas.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex Im                               UII. 3
If these reforms are successfully implemented, they will undoubtedly have
positive benefits for the population as a whole but especially for the poor both in
improved health through reduced risk of water-borne diseases, as well as increasing
productive opportunities, including time saved in water collection by women and
children. Among the reforms, a few policy issues have been identified which, depending
on how they are designed, could potentially have differential effects on the poor. They
include: increased access to supply and improved water quality; the implementation of a
new cost recovery policy for services; modernization of the utility organizational
structure and infrastructure investment; and a special focus on sustainable supply
arrangements in the hinterland for rural poor and Amerindian communities.
A. Increasing access and improving quality
On the whole, the coverage of water 93% (56% for treated water)'0, respectively, is
similar or better in Guyana than in other countries at comparable income levels. The
impact of inadequate water and sanitation services tends to fall primarily on the poor,
particularly in marginal and squatter areas as well as in rural and hinterland Amerindian
communities. Table I below shows access by source of supply and income group. The
Government's strategy for the sector calls for investment in rehabilitation and expansion
of supply networks to achieve universal access within a five year period. Access by
small, isolated rural groups could take longer. The new national water company, Guyana
Water, will need to address several issues to ensure that the goal of universal access is
met. They include: connection charges and fees which have served in the past as a
barrier to access; a natural tendency for the new company to focus on low-cost, high-
return investments which generally exist in higher income areas; and the need to set
specific annual investment targets and to develop mechanisms for setting investment
priorities and communicating decisions to civil society.
Table 1: Access to water by source, and income group
Quintile
Percent of households with: Poorest 2  3     4      Wealthiest Total
(rural/urban)
Access to water in the   14.2    17.3  27.4  35.2   50.5      28.7
building                                                      (18.7/45.6)
Access to water in the yard  37.6  57.6  68.6  72.9  84.7     64.3
________ _______ _______   _______   _____   _____   __   (5 2.3/84.0)
Source: 1999 Guyana Living Conditions Survey
1° Estimates for 2001, from Guyana PRSP.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex m                               m. 4
Connection charges have been used both to offset actual costs of connecting
customers to the network but also to ration scarce investment, since in the past demand
for such services outstripped available financial and technical resources. In GUYWA in
2001, these charges amounted to a one time payment of G$10,000 or the equivalent of
about 33 months of service charges or more than half of the monthly minimum wage.
While efforts were made to assist customers in financing these steep charges, they
remained a significant barrier to access as Government resources for spreading out
payment are often insufficient and the poorest customers can not easily accumulate the
necessary funds. This approach frequently led to the existence of shared and illegal
connections with excessive and uncontrolled consumption. The Government has recently
experimented with a different approach in poor squatter communities and the connection
fee beginning in 2002 was reduced to G$1,000. Working with the private operator the
Government will need to ensure that the policies and pricing arrangements in place for
connection charges do not inhibit the poorest customers access to the supply network.
Under the reform program a sector investment program has been developed to
rationalize existing production infrastructure and rehabilitate and expand transmission
and distribution. While a general investment timetable exists, investment priorities for
poor areas will need to be developed. Current plans include investments in new pipeline
connections to poor areas. The timing of these investments to various geographic areas
and socio-economic groups should be phased in equitably under a clearly established and
understood set of selection criteria. The use of a poverty map and annual allocations for
targeted investment would assist in ensuring that this social goal is achieved. Another
important linkage to be made is to Government's efforts on reforming issues of land
tenure particularly in urban areas. The provision of services should take place in the
context of regularizing squatter settlements and giving homeowners clear property rights.
Under a special program supported by the AIDA, an estimated 28 out 136 existing
squatter areas in Guyana have been provided access to piped water supply. Consistent
with the findings from consultations of the PRSP, residents in these squatter settlements
have communicated concerns about the lack of potable piped water as the main cause of
their environmental health problems (IDB Guyana Shelter Sector Policy and Programme
Reform Report, 1998).
Because of the limited alternatives to safe water supply by poor individuals and
households, they are particularly impacted by inadequate water quality either by means of
piped supply or surface water. Current water quality presents serious health risks to the
population, particularly diarrhea. A study carried out by UNICEF showed that the high
incidence of diarrhea and outbreaks of gastro-enteritis, typhoid and malaria among the
population can be linked to the poor availability and quality of water. (UNICEF Mid-term
Review Report, 1995). Further data provided by the Ministry of Health and PAHO,
indicates there were 9300 cases of acute diarrhoeal disease reported at clinic level in
1998, with Regions 1 and 9 having the highest incidences. The lowest incidence of water
related illness can be seen in Regions 4 and 6, which might be attributed to the existence
of serviceable water systems in Georgetown, Eccles and New Amsterdam. Apart from
limited sewerage systems in Georgetown, sanitation is the responsibility of individual
households. There appear to be serious public health risks associated with environmental



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex m                                111.5
sanitation issues like poorly designed on-site sanitation, uncontrolled dumping of sludge
from septic tanks, inadequate solid waste disposal and poor maintenance of surface
drains. The establishment of standards and their monitoring and the investments in water
disinfection and access, as well as environmental sanitation, should positively impact the
health of poor households.
B. Cost Recovery Policy
A policy of low and inequitable prices for service provision has led the
Government to develop a new cost recovery policy for the sector to achieve financial
sustainability through a tariff structure which bills customers for the water they consume
and discourages wastage while directing Government subsidies to the poorest households
to address concems on affordability. The three main characteristics of the policy will be:
moving over time to a system based on demand metering; increasing rates through a
proper tariff structure; and targeting subsides to the poorest consumers. While the
application of charges where they do not now exist and higher rates may impact the
expenditures of poor households, secure safe supply and the time savings associated with
water collection combined with the gradual application of the cost recovery policy and
lifeline tariff categories should not significantly impact poor household in a strongly
negative manner.
C. Demand Metering
At present, only some of the larger commercial and industrial connections of
GS&WC and GUYWA have metered connections; there are no metered connections at
the household level. While infrastructure deficiencies and energy problems play a role in
preventing the immediate adoption of a completely metered system, the current flat rates
for consumption have led to a situation where poor households cross subsidize wealthier
households since they end up paying a higher average rate per cubic meter (at a flat rate
of G$300 in 2001, a poor consumer with a single water tap with an average consumption
of 30 cubic meters per month would be charged G$10 per cubic meter; a wealthier
consumer whose multiple household fixtures consume 200 cubic meters pays G$1.5).
Thus a system which is meter-based should increase the equity of billing and charging.
D. Increasing Tariffs
As part of the 2000 sector analysis, KPMG carried out a willingness to pay study
in their consumer survey of the sector in the GUYWA service area and discussed the ssue
at a series of focus group meetings. The results indicated that the mean willingness to
pay for yard tap service was G$482 per month, and for a house connection, G$662 per
month at the current service level, and G$919 per month if the service level is improved.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex HII m. 6
The consumer survey shows that the poorest households spend a greater proportion of
their total expenditure on water supply than richer households. In the poorest quintile,
water expenditures at the highest flat rate of the willingness to pay analysis account for
approximately 5% of average household expenditure at one minimum wage. For other
households, this figure was 3 percent or less with many households paying nothing.
The analysis showed that willingness to pay for improved services was strongly
correlated with both per capita and household expenditure, but negatively with
satisfaction with the current level of service. This shows that willingness to pay is not
only tied to issues of household budgeting, but is closely linked to the legitimacy and
effectiveness of GUYWA as the water agency responsible for service delivery.
For those households currently without a water connection, women and children
report spending a considerable amount of time collecting water each day. Parents worry
that this is affecting the health, schooling and well being of their children. For these
households in particular, improved access to a yard tap is a priority for which they are
willing to pay. For households with a water supply, an improvement in water quality and
service reliability is considered of utmost importance to show a benefit for paying for a
water service.
Targeting Subsidies
Under the new arrangements, Guyana Water Inc. is committed to full cost
recovery of operations and maintenance expenses by the end of 2003, and full cost
recovery of all costs, including depreciation, by the end of 2004. Tariffs have been
adjusted as of Jan. 1 2002 to reflect rising energy costs for both customers of the then
existing GS&WC and GUYWA. For the minimal usage, unmetered connections,
GS&WC customers now pay about G$710, and GUYWA about $480. As service levels
in GUYWA areas are improved, the rates charged will be increased to the GS&WC rates.
A cost of G$710 per month equals about 3.6% of the monthly minimum wage (G$
20,000 per month) '. Metered rates also entail an element of cross-subsidy, with the
lowest metered residential rate being 64% of the highest rate, and 71% of the rate for
commercial and industrial users. These rates will be adjusted periodically to reflect
energy and other operating costs.
With the introduction of full metering over time, the proposed long-term pricing
strategy appears to be pro-poor in that households will only pay for water consumed at
rates that fall within their level of affordability or where they exceed affordability levels
will be assisted through targeted subsidies. In the absence of a developed welfare system
and cost effective means of identifying low income or vulnerable households, metered
The poverty line was determined to be G$47,500 per person in 1993, per year (see "Guyana: Strategies
for Reducing Poverty", 1286 1-GUA, May 6, 1994). Converted to 2002 prices, this is about G$84,805, or
G$ 7,067 per month. Assuming a family of four, the poverty line in 2002 would be about G$28,268 per
month per family, or slightly higher than the minimum wage.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex m                                III. 7
tariffs look likely to offer a sound mechanism for improving access to safe and affordable
water.
Billing practices have generally worked against the poor since consumption has
been billed on an annual basis requiring the. poorest households to accumulate large sums
from non-existent savings. Guyana Water is expected to move to a more frequent billing
period (quarterly or bi-monthly) which should lower this adverse effect.
E. Utility Organizational Structure and Infrastructure Investment
The reform program's impact on employment opportunities for the poor should be
positive on balance, taking into account expected job losses and new job creation. The
consolidation of the facilities and operations of the two existing utilities and new
investments will lead to greater efficiency and thus staff rationalization in Guyana Water.
Past staff rationalization schemes in both GS&WC and GUYWA will make this reform
less traumatic. Nevertheless, additional staff changes and reductions will be necessary as
the private operator evaluates and selects staff for the new national company. As of the
end of 2001, the combined company had a ratio of eight employees per 1000 connections,
compared with between two and four for comparably sized efficient water companies
elsewhere. As in any merger, effective communication, building trust among employees.
through participation, and the development of adequate retrenchment packages for any
redundant workers will be necessary.
Despite this negative impact, job creation under the program should be
significantly higher than job redundancy. Infrastructure investments over the 1997-2001
period have averaged annually around US$ 5 million. Under the planned sector
investment program, annual investments between 2002, and 2007 are expected to average
US$17 million. Assuming access goals are met, international experience shows that
investment in the sector will not fall as demands for investments in sanitation and
environmental mitigation take on increasing importance. In terms of impact of. these
investments, many of the civil works to be carried out will be contracted out locally by
qualified Guyanese companies, especially in pipe manufacture and installation. To
benefit as much as possible, the Government should ensure that incentives are in place to
favor labor intensive approaches to construction work.
F. Sustainable Supply in the Hinterland
The highest incidence of poverty is in the interior. The small isolated pockets of
population make supply solutions expensive overall and on a per capita basis. More
challenging yet is the need to design community-based operations and maintenance
schemes that can be sustained once the initial infrastructure investments are made. To
ensure adequate focus, significant weight has been given to bid evaluation for the
management contract with the private operator to develop and implement an integrated



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex III                             m. 8
Strategic Plan for the Hinterland. To ensure that these areas do receive services, these
investments will need to be adequately budgeted for on a regular basis. Appropriate
training for community-based maintenance systems will be crucial, including the
development of linkages with local authorities. Guyana Water will establish a Hinterland
Unit to carry out these functions.
G. Further Work
Several areas requiring additional work or action have been identified which include:
* Ensuring that connection policy and pricing arrangements implemented by the
private operator do not serve as a barrier to access for the poorest consumers;
* Utilizing a poverty map to identify and prioritize communities for investment
selection for rehabilitation works and increased access to water supply;
* Developing Annual Investment Plans which include specific plans and targets for
investments in poor marginal and rural communities according to the above
priorities;
* Developing a pricing policy and tariff structure which addresses affordability
concerns through a life-line tariff approach as one option for the poorest
consumers and/or well-targeted Government subsidies;
* Ensuring that a fair and transparent process is used to evaluate staffing needs and
staffing selection for the combined water company;
* Incorporating incentives for utilizing labor-intensive construction methods to
maximize employment opportunities from proposed infrastructure investments;
* Ensuring that the proposed Hinterland strategy is based on developing appropriate
community-based operation and maintenance schemes and capacity at the local
level;
* Developing a targeted hygiene promotion campaign, including the integration of
hygiene education into primary curricula at a national level, to ensure the health
benefits of improved water supply are fully realized.
* Begin to develop appropriate policy, regulatory and institutional arrangements for
improved environmental sanitation
* Implementing a monitoring and evaluation system as proposed under the PRSC.
Im.   REFORM OF THE SUGAR SECTOR12
The sugar industry plays a very important role in Guyana's economy. Sugar
accounts for 16 percent of the country's total GDP, it is the largest net earner of foreign
12 This section draws on work carried out by Errol Graham, and the LMC Analysis of the Guyana Sugar
Industry Strategic Plan, 2000, mimeo.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex HI                              m. 9
exchange, and is the biggest corporate contributor to public revenue. Moreover, in 2001
it directly employed 21,500  people (permanent and temporary workers) or about 6
percent of Guyana's labor force 3, and indirectly it involves another 5,000 people in cane
farming.
Despite a turnaround in the 1990s which has kept both field and factory gains in
Guyana on par with average global productivity performance, the sugar sector faces
significant challenges: falling prices and quotas in its key preferential markets in Europe,
low and declining world prices for sugar, a weak Euro, and antiquated factories which
impede the achievement of lower cost production without major new investment. For
Guyana, the long term trend in world market price is well below current levels of
production cost. It has been projected that given the present trend, sugar prices are
expected to be no more than about US$ 9 cents/lb (in real 2000 US dollar terms) by
2015. The cost of producing sugar in Guyana is approximately twice as much at US$18
cents/lb. Without major reforms in the sector to improve competitiveness, the Guyana
sugar industry, like others in the region and globally, is likely to face significant social
and political pressures for Government transfers to sustain it. International experience
suggests that subsidizing an ailing, uncompetitive industry is likely to be socially more
costly over the longer term than making a one time significant investment to bring the
industry to international competitiveness.
Assisted by the findings of a detailed study of the sugar sector and evaluation of
the Government's Strategic Plan carried out by a well-qualified global commodities firm
supported by the AIDA and DFID, the Government is implementing a sector reform
program consisting of the following key actions:
* Major new investment in expansion of production in the most favorable region
(Berbice) where prospects for lowering costs significantly are the highest;
* Undertaking an Agricultural Improvement Program (AIP) designed to restore
cane yields to levels previously achieved by the industry in the 1950s and 1960s;
* Developing and agreeing on profitability targets and introducing technical, cost
and profitability performance benchmarks in the existing management contract
and subsequently rebidding it once the new Skeldon factory is completed;
* Introducing greater private sector involvement in the industry through increasing
private cane farmer production and possibly private-sector led cogeneration,
refining and distilling of alcohol;
* Modernizing GUYSUCO's financial relationship with the Government by
eliminating the sugar levy and putting in place a dividend policy for transferring
profits to Government; and
* Linking worker remuneration to multi-year agreements based on productivity and
profitability indicators.
The two major policy options which the Government faces for restructuring the
industry are: (i) building a new mill in Skeldon increasing the cane production on the
13 Estimated at 338,000 in 2001, from SIMA data base.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex II                             III. 10
associated lands in Berbice to take advantage of economies of scale at the field and
factory levels while closing the non-profitable mills in the Demerara region in order to
increase industry revenues; and (ii) expanding the efficient mills and associated lands in
Berbice while attempting to improve the cost effectiveness of Demerara estates through
the AIP and other actions. Unless the latter strategy is successful, the current situation of
cross subsidies from profitable mills will limit severely any gains from the Government
reform efforts.
There is no question that the transition of the sugar industry in Guyana will bring
many changes for key stakeholders. However, there will be changes even if the
Government does nothing. This is so because the related external environment is
changing and these changes are likely to accelerate over time. The changes from the
implementation of the Strategic Plan (as modified through the 2000 sugar study) will
impact those working in the sector, who to a large extent are low income workers, as well
as individuals in the service sector in the communities in Demerara. The impact can be
mitigated with adequate information gathering, planning as well and the implementation
of appropriate social safety nets. The following discussion raises key issues which could
have differential impact on the poor depending on strategic policy decisions:
H. Economic Impact
Economic and Social Impact of Investment Expenditure. The implementation
of the modified Strategic Plan for the sugar industry will require that the Government
invest approximately US$110 million to expand production at Skeldon from 38,000 tons
per year to 110,000 tons. Since the total investment required is almost 16% of one year's
GDP, this poses particular economic and social challenges for Guyana. With about 20-
25% of this investment expenditure made locally, there should be significant business
opportunities and job creation, especially field labor, which should have a strong positive
impact on poor households in the Berbice area.
Sugar Levy. The sugar levy came into existence as a means to extract windfall
profits from the public sugar monopoly. As sector finances have evolved, ad hoc
arrangements have resulted in the levy payment being reduced to G$1 billion (US$5
million per annum). In theory, there is no adverse impact of the levy on cane farmners
since the cane pricing formula does not pass on any of the cost of the sugar levy to cane
farmers. However, since the extraction of the levy affects the long term profitability of
the company through the reduction of the capital that would be available for re-
investment, it reduces the potential long term benefits to farmers. Also, since the levy
affects the level of profitability of the mills it should have a direct bearing on wages to
workers employed in the mills. To the extent that dividend and tax payments from
GUYSUCO fall short of the Government revenue levels obtained from the sugar levy,
such a situation may have impacts on social expenditures or generate a need for higher
taxes.
Domestic Sugar Price. The reform program contemplates the liberalization of
domestic sugar prices, which would likely imply a significant increase from current low



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex III                            II. 11
levels. This increase in the price of sugar is likely to have a pass through effect on other
products including basic consumption items and will therefore have the impact of raising
the general price level. With low, fixed wages, the round of increases triggered by the
increase in sugar prices could result in a modest net welfare loss for the poor.
Private Cane Farmers and the Cane Payment System. On balance, the impact
of sector reforms and investment should result in an increase of cane purchase from
private growers, including smaller landholders. Unless the cane payment system is
modified, GUYSUCO will not have an incentive to purchase cane from small farmers
since the proportion of cane purchased from farmers has a marked effect on increasing
overall cane costs. Currently GUYSUCO estates produce cane at about US$238/ ton
compared with US$381/ton paid to farmers. The price split formula of 70:30 -- which is
high by industry standards globally -- is now under review. A reduction in the farmer's
share with no concomitant improvement in productivity will mean an overall loss in
income for small farmers. It should be noted, however, that small farmers currently
produce less than 10% of the total cane supplied to the mills. Hence the absolute transfer
of premium to the small farmers is small. The overall impact on growers would therefore
be modest and mitigated significantly if higher levels of productivity can be supported
and achieved. In the short run small farmers may not be able to take advantage of the
increased demand for cane due to: (i) the high initial cost for land development. It is
currently estimated that it would cost approximately G$130,000 to develop an acre of
cane, this translates to G$1.3 million for a 10 acre plot; and (ii) the absence of
complementary measures including adequate supply of water and proper water
management systems may prevent the small farmers from exploiting the full potential of
their land.
Employment Effects
Employment in the sugar sector has fallen significantly from 28,000 workers in
1991 to the current level of 18,500 permanent workers. Most of this shift in the work
force has taken place through attrition and small-scale rationalization at the estate and
factory level. Attrition is expected to continue at a rate of 2-3% a year. In the absence of
the reform program, job levels would likely continue to shrink in response to increasing
mechanization and an adjustment process that would take place over time as sector
performance deteriorates. With the reform program, the high level of investment should
lead to employment opportunities with the high investment levels and secondary effects
on businesses and service providers.
Expansion of Production at Skeldon. The expansion of production at Skeldon
is expected to have a positive impact on communities, with very little downside risks for
individuals and households in the affected areas. The vulnerability of the households is
not expected to increase. No major job creation is expected since the new plant will be
less labor intensive and the expanded facility will likely absorb existing staffing.
However, in the longer term, if the need to reduce the cost structure of the sugar industry
to gain competitiveness results in the lowering of real wages, then this may in fact
increase the vulnerability of the employed poor in the restructured industry. There may



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex m                              II. 12
also be significant benefits to small and medium landholders as cultivation shifts from
public estates to private growers as well as significantly increased economic activities for
many businesses in the region.
Impact of Possible Closure of the Demerara Mills. The possible closure of the
Demerara mills, should efforts to increase profitability and attract other private sector-led
linkages for refining and distilling not be successful, is likely to have important social
and poverty impacts. On the positive side, current spending by the Government on mills
whose marginal cost of production exceeds GUYSUCO's lowest price market will
liberate funding that can be redirected (through dividends and tax payments to the
Government as the industry owner) to social and infrastructure spending which should be
pro- poor as planned for in the PRSP. On the negative side, the possible closure of the
mills is expected to result in the gross unemployment of about 8,000 workers and their
families, or approximately 33,000 people (average household size was 4.15 in 1999).
For every job that is lost in the mills or on the estates, further jobs will be lost
elsewhere in the sugar belt. There will also be an immediate impact on suppliers to the
sugar industry including small scale artisans who may be the beneficiary of the
outsourcing of certain jobs by the factory. With the loss of income in the affected
communities small shops, and small service providers would lose business. Social
facilities or staff welfare facilities operated by the mills may be lost to the population in
the vicinity of the factories proposed for closure. The sugar industry has for historical
reasons evolved into a provider of social services for its labor force and in some cases for
the population as a whole. This includes hospital, educational benefits, recreational
facilities, welfare fund, subsidized lands for workers housing and the maintenance of
common property for the benefit of all users. In the short-run some of the shocks may be
eased by the inflows from redundancy payments, however, in the medium to long run the
related communities are likely to suffer considerable economic impacts from the closure
of mills. The design of a comprehensive social mitigation plan will need to address these
impacts and adequate social safety nets will be required.
Impact of Mechanized Loading to Improve Field Efficiency. As part of the
strategy to improve productivity at the field level the strategic plan proposes increased
mechanization of the loading of cane. In a survey of workers in the East Berbice region
where mechanical loading has been applied, more than 60% of the workers polled,
preferred to share the loading of the cane with the mechanical system.
Land Sales. In an effort to bridge the financing gap for the implementation of the
Strategic Plan, GUYSUCO will need to sell a portion of its extensive land holdings.
While this action will have no direct impact on poor households, indirectly it could
positively impact the poor if such land is put to productive use and could generate
employment, or is developed as low-income housing schemes. Greater land availability
may also be a general welfare gain to the extent that land market prices decrease due to
greater land supply.
Further work



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex III                            Im. 13
This review indicates several areas where reforms could potentially generate a
negative impact on the poor, especially if the Demerara estates do not become profitable
despite Government efforts to raise yields, lower costs and seek private sector led
refining and distilling operations. In order to mitigate the impact of sector restructuring,
the following areas for additional work should include:
*  Preparing prior to completion of the Skeldon factory a social mitigation plan
which would define options for dealing with worker displacement, transition
strategies for services currently being provided to communities which would be
impacted by proposed reforms in the sector, and set out a process of consultations
to inform policy choices such as support to affected small businesses and small
landholders which would continue or become cane suppliers to GUYSUCO. The
additional actions below would assist in preparing such a plan;
*  Carrying out a stakeholder analysis, including workers and their families in the
affected areas, and with other members of the communities including local
government officials, and businesses particularly in the service sector. The
objective of this analysis, perhaps in the format of individual interviews and focus
groups, will be to gain a better understanding of the potential impact, as well as
suggestions for appropriate policies and programs to mitigate the effects of the
sector restructuring;
*  Carrying out a survey to collect data on the demographic, social, ethnic and
economic profile of individuals and households in the affected areas. This will
help in the design of appropriate social safety nets, and provide baseline
information for monitoring the living conditions of the population and evaluating
the impact of the effectiveness of the social safety net assistance; and
*  Implementing the findings of the private cane grower study as appropriate,
especially those recommendations where small and medium landholders can be
encouraged to become cane suppliers to GUYSUCO. This may require some
modest Government support to assist growers in producing high yield/high quality
cane.
IV.   REFORM OF THE BAUXITE INDUSTRY14
The bauxite industry has historically played an important role in the Guyanese
economy currently accounting for approximately 5% of GDP, and approximately 2000
employees. Bauxite is produced at three mines LINMIE, BERMINE, and AROAIMA
with each producing different grades of bauxite aimed at different markets.
The industry has, however, been on the decline for some time due to adverse
conditions in external markets and mismanagement of the bauxite operations. .
Production started to decline after 1978 until the operations were declared technically
bankrupt in 1992.  LINMIE has experienced a significantly greater downturn than
14 This section draws on Linmine and Bermine Privatization, The Social and Economic Impact Assessment,
by A. Gordon and D. Rawana, the Adam Smith Institute and contributions from Barbara Verardo



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex III                           HI. 14
BERMINE, despite its higher grade bauxite. In 1991 the Government signed a private
management contract to run the operations of LINMINE which resulted in the
downsizing of employment from over 3,000 to about 1,400. Since 1992 the Government
has been providing subsidies to maintain the operations of the mines and its workforce as
well as services to the Linden community which are currently equivalent to 1.5 percent of
GDP annually. Maintaining such a high level of subsidization is unsustainable and
without action eventual closure will result in the loss of all mine jobs.
The Govemment has attempted to privatize the mnines for ten years with little
success. Currently, there is a proposal by Cambior (Omai Gold Mines Limited) which, if
brought to fruition, will mean the purchase of LINMINE. This will result in both positive
and negative social impacts. On the positive side, the current subsidy to the mine will be
eliminated and can be channeled to other investments such as social expenditures for the
poor. On the negative side, there will be substantial job layoffs, spillover effects on the
service sector in Linden which relies heavily on demand from the bauxite sector and its
workers, and a possible decline in social services provided to the community by the mine.
Some of this will be mitigated by retrenchment payments, and the Linden Economic
Advancement Project (LEAP) financed by the European Union. To manage this process
it is recommended that the Government initiate immediately a social mitigation plan to
support a discourse with the community on these issues and inform policy choices and
actions as a result of the restructuring of the industry.
Economic Impact
The economic benefits of privatization are clearly positive. Currently, LINMINE
is not only losing money, but draining substantial resources from the Government to keep
the plant open. In 2001, government subsidies amounted to about 1.7% of GDP Even if
the Government closed the plant completely and still paid workers, they would save
resources. Reducing the US$7-10 million subsidy to LINMINE will free up resources for
social spending and other productive investments. Profitable mining operations should
also result in stream of revenue flows for the Government's equity stake and as corporate
tax payments. No tax exemptions are under consideration as part of the proposed
privatization plan.
The privatization plan involves a capital investment of approximately US$30
million. Projected sales from the mine are US$15.3 during the first full year of
operations, increasing to about US$29 million by the third year. If things go well for the
company, there is potential for also purchasing BERMINE and AROAIMA. Private
enterprises have proven to be more efficient, competitive and effective at raising capital
and better positioned to deal with the risks of exploration and development. Private
investors can be encouraged and regulated to act responsibly to achieve the interests of
the nation through appropriate policy initiatives, legal and institutional reform and
adequate administrative procedures. Thus, private control of the bauxite operations can
be expected to result not only in increased efficiency, improved financial performance
and positive fiscal impact, but also in improved environmental and social performance.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex m                              IH. 15
I. Employment Effects
The privatization plan envisages a staff reduction of about 850 workers in
LINMINE from approximately 1250 to 400 workers. If not properly managed, this
employment impact will cause an economic shock and hardship for both those who will
be directly affected as well as those in the local community. The workers who are likely
to be laid off tend to have some skills, though specific to the mining sector. About 80
percent of workers are males. They receive a number of benefits beyond salaries
including a pension scheme and national insurance, medical benefits, a thrift scheme, free
water and subsidized electricity, housing and social and sporting facilities.
The LINMINE workforce tends to have an older profile than BERMNEN with the
majority of workers aged 40-60. While retrenchment will be harder on older workers
who are less likely to acquire new skills and find new jobs, a higher proportion will be
closer to retirement. Retirement will contribute to the downsizing. By 2004, 179 persons
are expected to retire. The concern is how rapidly these workers can be reabsorbed in the
labor market, what skills they will need, and what kind of retrenchment packages will be
appropriate. These issues are discussed in the following section. Of the 700 workers
who were laid off since 1995, many were absorbed by the OMAI gold mine. This will
not continue, however, as the gold reserves are diminishing and gold mining operations
are expected to cease in 2005, unless new finds are made.
Migration will likely play a role in absorbing some of the retrenched workers.
While no figures are available, it is anticipated that those workers with skills will leave
the area in search of limited alternatives in the mining sector, in other sectors, or will
leave Guyana. It appears that the most skilled workers (and best connected) migrate
permanently. While this reduces the skills level in the country, the remittances are high
and play an important role in overall GDP. In Linden, it was estimated that US$5 million
in remittances is received through formal channels annually, but including informal
channels as well, the sum is more likely US$10 million (Adam Smith Institute Report).
There should also be some additional positive employment impacts from three
areas: labor and contracting associated with the investment itself; environmental
remediation activities and contacting of services by the private company which
previously were carried out by LINMINE employees, such as security arrangements.
Beyond this though, at present there are limited opportunities. Both the depressed macro-
economic environment and the local stagnant economy provide few alternate
opportunities for employment. Unemployment is already high in Linden. LIMINE is
currently the largest single employer, but the main source of employment has become
retail, and wholesale and commerce. Much of this is small traders in the informal sector.
Local commerce is shrinking as mobile vans are coming into Linden and underselling
local retailers. Attempts to self-start into new opportunities are decreasing, with many
complaining about the lack of credit.
J. Community Effects



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex m                              m. 16
There are also significant indirect effects of the privatization on public services
provided to the community in Linden. Linden has a population of approximately 35,000
people and was developed as a result of the bauxite industry. Currently, many key
services such as water and electricity are provided for free by the Government as a
subsidy to the LINMINE operation. Also subsidized are security, fire fighting, road
maintenance, medical services and schools. Under the IMF program for 2002-2005,
transfer payments of approximately G$740 million (US$3.9 million) for the provision of
these community services to Linden have been budgeted for to mitigate the social impact
during the transition to full cost recovery. Poor households will obviously see a net
welfare loss once charges for water and electricity consumption are introduced. As part
of the social mitigation plan, a study of household expenditure and willingness to pay
should be carried out.
The sharply reduced work force and its related impact on incomes suggests that
there could be an impact on local business especially for small firms. Some operations
currently carried out by LINMINE such as the provision of water treatment chemicals,
transport of workers to the mine, and digging and trucking may decrease as the operation
is privatized. As the demand for some of these services declines unemployment could
increase and contractors may incur a loss of income. Other service industries which meet
the needs of the population will also be affected as the demand for consumption goes
down with lower income levels. There will, however, be a lagged effect as initially
workers will receive severance payments which, at a minimum, will be equivalent to their
current salary. It is not clear to what extent that expanded mining production as
contained in Cambior's business plan will offset some of these impacts through
additional demand for contracting services.
LEAP. Some of the effects will be mitigated through the Linden Economic
Advancement Project (LEAP) to be financed by the EU. About 12 million euros are to
be invested over seven years. LEAP is intended to revitalize the economy of Region 10
through technical assistance, training and micro finance to promote small business
development, and through investment in economic infrastructure including roads, to
support growth. The successful implementation of the project is intended to create over
1000 jobs and train over 1500 persons in marketable skills. This would provide a major
positive social impact on the community.  While LEAP will provide important
opportunities in the Linden community, it is also important for the Government to
undertake an analysis of the role other institutions can and should play in supporting the
community during this economic and social transition.
K. Environmental Effects
There is no body of work or analysis that documents the past environmental
effects of mining operations on human health in Linden. Discussions with residents
generates anecdotal accounts of perceived negative impacts, the only evidence of which
is actual poor environmental management of current operations. The restructured
operation is to be based on sound and well-accepted environmental practices. Remedial
actions are also foreseen in a number of key degraded areas. Therefore, the privatization



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex III                            1111.17
should have a positive impact on the health of the community, including poor residents
that may have higher levels of exposure to environmental risks.
L. Further Work
This review provides some indication of what the positive and negative impacts of
the privatization of LINMINE will be. In order to alleviate the negative impacts, it is
recommended that additional social and economic work be carried out. This, however,
needs to be initiated almost immediately to inform Government plans in the immediate
future as agreement with the private mining company is anticipated before the end of
2002. Recommended areas include:
* Prepare and implement a social mitigation plan, which will bring together the
information and actions to address the impacts fro the privatization plan on social
welfare, especially for the poor in a comprehensive and coordinated way. This is
all the more crucial as actions to address the restructuring of the bauxite industry
will set precedents for the handling of future restructurings in other industries and
sectors. The plan should include and build on the recommendations below;
* Begin to sensitize the community of the changes to come providing them with full
information on benefits and costs through better and more frequent information;
* Carry out a socio-economic survey in Linden focusing on skills levels, household
structure, and other sources of income in the household, possibly including
analysis and willingness to pay for water and electricity services;
* Also initiate tracking survey (linked to socio-economic survey), of workers which
could be followed up in future years to inform policy makers on what has
happened to retrenched workers, so that this can affect future redundancies;
* Initiate stakeholders analysis to discuss further effects of retrenchment, and
options for mitigating impact to guide policy formulation and implementation;
* Carry out an institutional analysis to determine what institutions can offer to
provide assistance and how they can be strengthened.
V.    LABOR RETRENCHMENTS
This section reviews the challenges related to labor retrenchment and options and
shares some international experience with approaches adopted elsewhere. Under the
planned reform and restructuring program of the Government of Guyana, the biggest
issue with regard to social impact will likely be the retrenchment of workers in the sugar
and bauxite industries. This involves a loss in earnings, nonwage benefits, and intangible
losses such as social displacement, loss of job security, and self-esteem.
Labor protection laws will provide for some severance pay. Workers who lose
their jobs receive severance pay under the Severance Pay Act, or through Collective
Labor Agreements. Under the Severance Pay Act, employees in the formal sector, both
public and private receive: I week pay for each year of service up to 5 years, for 6-11



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex III                            m. 18
years, 2 weeks pay for each year of service, and for over 11 years, 3 weeks pay for each
year of service. The maximum severance package is 52 weeks pay. Under the Collective
Labor Agreements, severance differs by union, with a maximum of 104 weeks pay. If a
worker is eligible for either schemes, they can select the one providing larger benefits.
Beyond this, there are several issues which are being discussed and could further
mitigate the impact of job losses on the population as outlined below. Examples from
other countries which have faced major downsizing shows that countries also included
higher pension liabilities, and enhancements to the worker safety net such as
unemployment benefits, job search assistance, training, and relocation assistance
designed to aid in the process of worker reallocation (Haltiwanger and Singh). In Asia,
92 percent of the total costs went to severance pay, 74 percent for Latin America, and 51
percent in Africa.
Selection of Workers. The impact of the layoffs can be mitigated through the
selection process of who will be laid off. An obvious priority is incentives for those
eligible for early retirement. Other voluntary programs have the advantage that they
yield some favorable voluntary selection of workers with skills and who may have
outside opportunities. Yet, this approach can often have the adverse affect of inducing
the most productive people to leave.15 Involuntary programs potentially permit specific
targeting of redundant and unproductive staff, yet this approach can be politically and
socially unpopular. For example, a massive layoff for Brazil's Federal Railways laid off
workers based on the selection criteria of: record of attendance; frequency of penalties or
suspensions, overall performance evaluation by the employees immediate supervisor; and
family situation (e.g. marital status, number of children). Most programs use both
voluntary and involuntary reduction methods.
Amount of Severance Pay. From a financial point of view, downsizing will be
profitable, even if employees get generous severance payments given the high subsidies
currently going to the sugar and bauxite sectors. An important issue is what level of
benefits is most appropriate. As a benchmark, Guyana laid off about 1350 security
guards in 2000. They were given severance and other payments of G$465 million, or
about 0.33 percent of current GDP. About 82 percent of the package consists of
severance benefits of G$285,000 each to 1333 workers (the other 26 were not eligible for
this benefit, since they had already separated once before), which amounts to 15 months'
wages for each (all being paid at the minimum wage), and around 12 percent of the
package has been paid towards superannuation benefits for pensionable and non-
pensionable staff. The total package per employee works out to about G$342,000 (18
months' wages) or US$1870. For reasons of equity, it would be difficult to go below the
15 month wage equivalent. It may be possible to go to a higher amount, though this
could set an exceedingly high precedent for a Government which is fiscally constrained,
and is facing future retrenchments that may arise in the public sector through reform of
the civil service. Tailoring severance pay to observable characteristics such as age,
'5 Haltiwanger and Singh, 1999, Cross-Country Evidence on Public Sector Retrenchment, The World Bank
Economic Review, Vol 13, No. 1: 23-66.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex III                            III. 19
education, number of dependents and the like may substantially reduce the costs of
downsizing and avoid distortions.16
Payment Schedule. The major policy choice here is the use of lump sum versus
monthly payments for an extended time. Evidence suggests that lump sum payments can
be misused and are generally not recommended (cite) . A lump sum, however, may
provide a worker with funds that would be unavailable otherwise but necessary to start a
business or to migrate. In the end the best approach may be one of offering workers a
menu of options with built in incentives for ensuring that one time payments are not
immediately consumed and effected workers are left with no job and no income stream.
Training. Retraining is a tempting solution for workers who have been laid off.
International experience shows, however, that training programs in practice have not had
much success compared with the objectives of such programs. Programs usually provide
class-room training followed by on the job training. These programs may improve
trainees' skills and employability, however, they can only help the long term unemployed
and disadvantaged workers when the economy is improving and demand for such
workers is expanding. Training programs have also not had much success in economies
with high unemployment, and tend to be expensive. Impact evaluation studies have
found that the cost-effectiveness of these programs is generally disappointing, with rates
of return largely negative. (Dar and Tzannatos, 1998). In fact in some OECD countries,
the combined impact of deadweight losses, substitution, and displacement has been
shown to wipe out up to 90 percent of the effects of training subsidies programs for the
unemployed (Dar and Gill, 1998).
In Guyana, the Ministry of Education provides skills training to unemployed
youth in five technical institutes. They each provide training in traditional skills areas,
including welding, carpentry, masonry, office procedures, auto mechanics and others.
Training is supply driven with few direct links to the labor market. The relevance of the
training is further reduced by the use of outmoded equipment. Despite this weakness
programs are generally oversubscribed. This could, in part be due to the fact that some
see the training certificates as a step towards migration (some countries require this for
visas). Capacity is limited to approximately 4,000 students per year. The programs
generally do not address training needs in the country. They are supply driven using
outdated curricula and equipment and are not linked to the private labor market.
Placement rates among graduates are low.
Stimulus for the Private Sector (formal and informal economy). Re-
employment of the redundant workers and others might be facilitated by a diversified
economy with a range of industry and agriculture.  In the case of Linden it is
recommended to not concentrate efforts only towards the directly affected people, as the
private sector too will also need support to cope with the lack of prosperity deriving from
the decline of the bauxite industry.
16 Rama, M. 1997, Efficient Public Sector Downsizing. World Bank.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex m                                IH. 20
Information Campaign. As mentioned in the preceding sections, providing full
information and transparency in any process involving social dislocation can help to
assuage the populations concerns. While obtaining buy-in may be too much too ask or
may not be possible where impacts are felt on one group and where the benefits accrue
more broadly in the economy or come later, engagement with affected individuals and
communities can contribute to lessening tension and lowering the risk of political
exploitation by special interest. But more importantly broad and frequent discourse can
inform and guide policy choices and actions, leading to more successful government
support programs.
Systems of Incentives and Support for Food and Cash Crop. Most of Linden's
raw food and vegetables is brought in from outside of the area and increased self-
sufficiency would reduce the cost of living. Besides, the alluvial soil along the creeks
would support coconut, banana and plantain, providing all Linden's needs of these items,
Meat production should also be encouraged, as 2/3 of poultry requirements have to be
brought in. This option should be explored further.
Land Transfers to Local Residents. Guyana has abundant land resources and
the Government has ongoing programs to provide house lots to poor citizens. Providing
land titles or favorable treatment (i.e. more rapid approvals under existing schemes, softer
terms, other support to ensure its productive use) to retrenched workers may permit
sufficient compensation to prevent individuals from falling into poverty. Among the
issues which would need to be studied include the location of the land, size of parcels,
and precedence this will set for any future redundancies.
Workfare Programs. Public employment programs serve as a safety net,
providing income transfers in cash or in-kind (usually in the form of food), for unskilled
labor, typically heavy physical labor. These programs provide transfers to the poor, and
may provide some consumption smoothing, depending on timing. The programs can also
help in the construction of much needed infrastructure, and have spin off effects such as
community building and strengthening of local governments and other institutions
(Subbarao, 2000). The programs are also generally well-targeted through self-selection if
the wages are set low enough, and through employment, they prevent welfare
dependency and disincentive effects. They are best designed to provide temporary
assistance.
VI. Long-Term Impact of PRSC Reforms - A Simulation
In order to estimate some of the long term impacts of various reform scenarios on
growth, poverty and employment, a simulation model was developed with the help of a
team from the Millennium Institute.17 These simulations focus on the impact of reforms
in only the sugar and bauxite sectors, since these are likely to have the biggest impact on
poverty. Results below are given only for poverty, but parallel results for growth and
17 For a more detailed presentation of the model structure and results, see Millennium Institute, "Guyana -
Impacts of Structural Reforms on Economic Prospects and Poverty Reduction - Analysis with the T-21
Model", August, 2002, available in project files.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex mII                              m. 21
employment. The reform scenarios show how Guyana would benefit from the reform
program and from adding mitigating measures. Results for four scenarios are reported.
Base Case: The Government is assumed to implement the PRSP, and reach its underlying
growth assumptions.  However, it continues to subsidize bauxite industry, and
employment in this sector remains at current levels. In sugar, falling prices and rising
costs absorb profits from industry, reducing government revenues. When GUYSUCO
profits are eliminated, government is forced to close Demerara mills, causing
unemployment of 8,000 in the year 2005.
RS(1) Assumes an adjustment program for each industry -- Bauxite reduces employment
by about 800 jobs permanently, but enjoys a return to output growth as efficiency
increases. Sugar however loses a net of 6300 jobs, and output declines. The Government
does not employ any social protection measures, and does not pay severance. This is an
unrealistic case, given the legal requirements to pay severance, but is used here for
illustrative purposes only.
RS(2) combines adjustment of RS(1) with safety nets programs in both industries. The
government uses savings on subsidies to pay severance to laid-off workers over three
years. They are slowly absorbed back into the labor pool. Once the severance payments
have been made, further savings on subsidies are used to increase other expenditures,
presumably in the social sectors which raise welfare but have only a mild impact on
growth.
RS(3). combines adjustment plus safety nets as in the previous case and assumes that the
available money from surpluses after severance payments is directed to infrastructure
investment, which has a greater effect on accelerating economic growth, but comes at the
cost of lower spending on social services.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex m                              m. 22
Figure 1: GDP (bil. const. GYD)
13 -
11-
9 
7   ~
3  -
1990      1994     1998      2002     2006      2010      2014     2018
|+--Base 1 -.--RS 1 --R     S 2 -*-RS3
Results
In the base case, GDP growth declines from a current level of over 3.5% p.a. to
about 1% by 2020 (Figure 1), as rising subsidies absorb public revenues that could be
used for growth generating investments. Poverty reduction is limited, particularly after
2005, as unemployment grows sharply (Fig.2). Employment declines and grows at about
half the rate of GDP (Figure 3).
Under the RS(1) case, draconian measures to adjust without social protection
causes an immediate and sharp increase in poverty, but results in higher GDP and lower
poverty in the long run (after 2006). Sugar output declines modestly to a level consistent
with Guyana's access to preferential trade quotas. GDP consistently grows faster than in
the base case (Figure 1), but employment initially declines, and only catches up to the
level of the base case by 2017. The poverty share increases in 2004, then declines
slowly. It falls below Base Case I by 2006
On the contrary, with the RS(2) case of adjustment with social protection,
severance payments to workers reduce poverty in the short run over the base case. The
government uses savings on the subsidies to pay severance to laid-off workers over three
years. They are slowly absorbed back into the labor pool. Once the severance payments
have been made, further savings on subsidies are used to increase other expenditures.
This happens slowly because of the implicit borrowing against future subsidy savings in



Figure 2: Percentage Below Poverty Line                   23
50%-
45%-
40%-
35%-
30%-
25%-
20%  -_                                    __ _
15%   -_                                   __ _
10% 
5 %   -                                _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
0% 
1990     1994    1998     2002    2006     2010     2014    2018
|+  Base 1 ---RS 1 -x-RS 2 -- RS 3
sugar. GDP and employment growth is marginally less than RS(I). The difference is
due to the different impacts of expenditure from severance payments and general
government expenditures. The latter has a little greater impact on GDP and thus job
creation. There is more difference in the profile of poverty over time. The severance
payments reduce poverty initially, then the poverty rate decline levels out as the
severance payments end. Poverty is always lower than in the base case. The differences
in the poverty share are less than 1.5 percentage points below that of the base case by
2009, but at the cost of slightly lower levels of GDP and employment in the longer term.
RS(3) illustrates that the model depends on the assumptions about what the government
does with the savings from subsidy reduction. If it is able to invest these in infrastructure
that accelerates private sector growth, poverty reduction, growth and employment can be
better than any of the other cases. In this RS(3) case, poverty is more than ten percentage
points lower in 2020 than in the base cases - about 11% of the population compared to
about 21% in the base cases However, this comes at the cost of reduced social sector
expenditures, which would lower worker welfare in a way which is not captured by the
model (which measures only monetary poverty and employment).
These scenarios illustrate the relative impacts of different policies and how
mitigation can be undertaken to ease the adjustment. There are still costs in the short
term but they are more than offset by the longer-term gains. These gains will be realized
if the government uses the funds saved from the investment productively and if the
government continues the rest of the reform program. In fact, the model is based on a
successful implementation of the PRSP program and its underlying targets, which helps
define the base case. If these are not achieved, the underlying projections of the base
case may be optimistic.
However, the results confirm the benefits of the adjustment programs in bauxite
and sugar. With reform, the economy will grow faster and achieve a higher level of
employment and lower poverty in the medium term. However, as expected, the pure
adjustment without social protection case imposes a higher cost and does not achieve the



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex m                              II. 24
poverty rate of the base case for about seven years. Introducing the safety net mitigates
the increase in poverty, and does shorten the transition period. This suggests that more
needs to be done. In particular, if the government uses the money saved from the
subsidies on highly productive expenditures, such as infrastructure, the results can be
improved substantially, and poverty is held below the base case during the transition
period and beyond.
These scenarios made no assumptions about the possible actions of the laid-off
workers to create new jobs for themselves. They might be able to start up small
businesses. When the sugar plantations in the Demerara region are closed, the land could
be converted to other crops. While there would be initial costs to convert the land to rice
or a tree crop, such a program would reduce unemployment and poverty. Minor changes
in the rate of migration would also have an impact on the rate of poverty and on changes
in per capita incomes. Such alternatives could also be tested in the model if the specific
assumptions and data to be considered were provided.
Conclusions
The results of the analysis are clear. Continuing 'business as usual' in the bauxite and
sugar sectors will lead to a continued slow-down in growth, rising poverty and
increasingly unmanageable public sector deficits. The proposed reforms in these sectors
will benefit the economy and reduce poverty in the medium term. However, in the short
term, there are significant costs in terms of lower employment and higher poverty. By
instituting a safety net for those laid off and by directing the savings from subsidies into
highly productive investment, the growth rate can be increased substantially beyond the
pure reform program. The social costs in terms of employment losses and slower poverty
reduction will be fully offset. More jobs will be created and poverty reduced more
rapidly and further than either of the base cases.
This analysis is useful in looking at the longer-term implications of different policy paths.
It also illustrates how prospects differ between the short term and medium term under
different policy assumptions. What seems preferable in the short term may not be the
best in the longer term, as demonstrated in these scenarios.
JBaker/JStein/Nhicks/



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex IV                                IV. I
ANNEX IV
LINKAGE BETWEEN PRSC AND PRSP OBJECTIVES, AND OTHER DONOR
SUPPORT
(for details on other donor programs, see Annex VII)
POLICY AREA       Objectives and        PRSC Support?          Other Donors
Targets                                      Support
Enhance         Maintain prudent     Yes. PRSC requires sound  IMF
Macroeconomic fiscal policy          macro and fiscal balances,
Framework                            and prudent monetary
policy
Maintain prudent                              IMF
Monetary Policy and  Yes, as above.            IDA
integrity of the
financial system
Encourage and/or                               IMF
support private sector  No.
to raise
local financing for
investment
Regulatory and  Improve efficiency of  Yes. PRSC supports major  IDB
institutional   the public sector in  reform in water sector,  UNDP
framework       delivery of          which will improve
services             efficiency and delivery of
services to the poor.;
improvements in mining
and forestry sector
regulation.
Modernize the   Restructure and      Yes. PRSC supports a     DFD)
traditional     modernize the sugar  major restructuring of the  CDB
economic base   industry             sugar industry, and a    IMF
program of new
investments.
IDB
Modernize the        No.                       UNDB
agriculture sector                             IICA
CDB



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex IV                               IV. 2
POLICY AREA       Objectives and        PRSC Support?         Other Donors
Targets                                     Support
Expanding the  Improve the          Yes. PRSC supports tax   USAID
economic base   environment for     and administrative reforms  CIDA
to              manufacturing       which will increase      DFID
support the poor                    transparency and decrease  EU
discretionality, thereby
Develop new product  improving the investment
lines                climate for the private
sector..
Accelerate
development of       No.
eco-tourism.
No.
Support private  Aggressively support  Yes.(see above).      USAID
sector          private sector to
development     expand              No.
and maintain markets
UNDP
Develop and expand                            CIDA
small                                         IDB
business and cottage  No.
industries
Enhance framework
for
eco-tourism
development
Improve good    Implement           Yes. PRSC supports       IDB
governance      constitutional      reforms of tax system,   IMF
reforms to improve   public procurement and   UNDP
public               auditing to enhance      CIDA
accountability       accountability and       DFID
transparency.            USAID
EU
Enhance confidence   Yes. PRSC supports the
building measures to  establishment of a
sustain political and  participatory monitoring
economic stability   framework for the PRSP,  IDB
which will help ensure
Improve justice      political and economic
administration       stability.               IDB



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex IV                                 IV. 3
POLICY AREA       Objectives and         PRSC Support?          Other Donors
Targets                                      Support
Reform local
government
No
Yes. PRSC supports a
number of steps to improve
local resource
mobilization, increase
transparency and
accountability, and
increase efficiency of local
government structures.
Improve         Maintain stability of  No.                     EU
infrastructure to  sea defense                                 IDB
support growth  infrastructure and
incursions in the most
productive land areas
No.                       CDB
Expand air, road and                           IDB
river                                          EU
Transportation
network              No.                       CDB
Expand and improve
drainage and         No.                       IDB
irrigation schemes
Provide electricity
to underserved- areas
Improve social  -Improve-access,     Yes. PRSC supports        IDB
conditions by   covrag   qality      primary health care reform, IDA
creating access  of healthtcaire, *and an expansion of the     CDB
to health       especially4to the poor  country's capacity to deal  UNICEF
services                             with HIV/AD)S



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex IV                                V. 4
POLICY AREA      Objectives and         PRSC Support?         Other Donors
Targets                                     Support
Provide              No.                     UNFPA
comprehensive                                 UNAIDS
solution to the special
ailments that could
not presently be
treated in Guyana
Develop human  Improve coverage     Yes. PRSC supports       IDB
resource       enrolment and        education reforms to     IDA
development    performance of       reduce repetition and drop-  UNESCO
students in first and  outs, improve teach    UNICEF
second cycles        training and improve     CIDA
school performance and   DFID
autonomy..
Efficiency in   Ensure good effective  Yes. PRSC supports major  CDB
the             regulation of the   reform of water sector,  IDB
quality and     sector              including improved       DFID
delivery on                         regulation.
water supply
Expand access and    Yes.Water reforms        EU
quality of water     supported by PRSC will   IDA
expand water service in
poor areas, improve
quality.
Accelerate      Support families to  No.                     DFID
housing        own homes                                     UNDP
development
Improve basic        No.                      IDB
Sanitation                                    EU
Directly       Reduce poverty       Yes. PRSC identified     IDB
targeting of   gap                  improvements in social   CDB
poverty and                         safety net which will be
empowering                          supported through the
communities    Reform social        PSTAC.
security
contributions        No.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex IV                              IV. 5
POLICY AREA      Objectives and        PRSC Support?         Other Donors
Targets                                    Support
Institutional  Strengthen sector    Yes. PRSC and PSTAC     IDB
strengthening  agencies/ministries  support improvements in
monitoring capabilities in
key ministries, s well as
overall coordination
through PCPMU
Target regions  Develop special     No.                     EU
with           intervention
extreme poverty  projects
Improve policy  Improve data        No. Assistance to be given  UNDP
analysis in    Collection and       under PSTAC to Statistics
ministries     coverage throughout  Bureau.
and agencies.  Government system
Ensure effective  Co-ordinate poverty  Yes. PRSC supports
Implementation  reduction strategies to  establishment of policy
of             minimize duplication  unit in Office of the
Poverty                             President, which will also
reduction                           be supported by TAC.
Strategy



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex V                                 V.1
ANNEX V
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
1.    Government Policy Position: In its National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
2001-2005, the Government of Guyana unequivocally declared its commitment to
sustainable development including sustainable human development as major pillars of
our country's socio-economic program. In this context, Guyana seeks to integrate
economic, environmental and social values during planning and to distribute benefits
equitably across socio-economic strata and gender upon implementation. It also seeks to
ensure that opportunity for continued development remains undiminished for future
generations. This approach also defines the need for environmental protection to be
treated as a cross-sectoral matter applied to all aspects of the development process.
2.    Summary of PRSC-I. This Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) is the first
of a series of such credits designed to support the poverty reduction strategy outlined in
Guyana's PRSP and the National Development Strategy. The ultimate medium-term goal
for Guyana's poverty reduction strategy is to reduce the poverty headcount ratio of 35%
of the population under poverty to 31%. Other key poverty reduction goals elaborated in
the PRSP include: (a) creating opportunities for income generation; (b) job creation; (c)
reducing infant and maternal mortality rates; (d) achieving universal primary education;
and (e) eliminating gender disparities in education. The three year program of sequential
PRSCs will provide support for a number of important reforms, including: key reforms to
raise productivity in the sugar, water and forestry sectors; reform of public sector
procurement and auditing; the establishment of more effective programs in health and
education; a more effective system of local government; an improved safety net to protect
the poor and unemployed; and an enhanced system of program monitoring.
3.    The 2002     Poverty  Reduction  Strategy  Credit (PRSC-I), comprising
approximately US$12 million equivalent to be disbursed as one tranche in 2002, has been
categorized by the IDA as a Sector Adjustment Credit (SECAC) that is subject to all the
IDA's environmental and social Safeguard Policies. Of the various PRSC-supported
policy reforms, the main ones of environmental significance involve sugar, mining,
forestry, water, and private investment.  Two other items under Government
consideration with environmental implications, bauxite privatization and rural roads, are
no longer part of the PRSC. The PRSC-supported actions of highest environmental
sensitivity (corresponding to a Category "A" rating under the IDA's Environmental
Assessment Policy [OP 4.01]) involve the sugar and mining sectors. These actions, along
with those for forestry, are anticipated to be conditions for the PRSC-II (to be processed
as a future IDA credit, most likely in 2004), but not for this PRSC-I. Accordingly, the
PRSC-I has been classified as Category "B" (requiring this Environmental Analysis, but
not a full Environmental Impact Assessment), but the future PRSC-II is likely to be
classified as Category "A" (requiring a detailed Environmental Impact Assessment that
addresses the sugar and mining sector issues).



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex V                                V.2
4.    The PRSC will be IDA's principal lending instrument to Guyana over the next
few years. However, from an environmental standpoint, it is also worth noting that the
IDA is prepared to assist the Government with establishment of the National Protected
Areas System (NPAS). This project was proposed for a US$6 million grant from the
Global Environment Facility (GEF); total project size would be about US$1 I million. As
presently designed, this project would assist in establishing the legal, regulatory and
technical framework for a national protected areas system in Guyana. Although project
preparation started in the mid-1990s, project processing stalled after appraisal in 1998
due primarily to (i) concerns raised by Amerindians and NGO representatives about the
status of indigenous land claims and resource use issues in areas proposed for possible
NPAS protection, and (ii) the ensuing stalemate with Government and Amerindian
representatives in defining agreed mechanisms for resolving the issues raised and
achieving meaningful participation by indigenous people in the design and management
of the NPAS. Discussions to move the project forward resumed with the Government
and other stakeholders in October 2001. IDA is currently reviewing performance against
agreed next steps with the Government to assess the viability of continuing project
processing. This principally involves securing agreement on appropriate stakeholder
consultation processes for developing the revised project design and participation plans
for the establishment and management of protected areas during project implementation.
5.    Sugar. The PRSC-supported restructuring of Guyana's sugar industry will
include the construction of a new, modern sugar factory at the coastal town of Skeldon,
along with the expansion of sugar cane cultivation by some 10,000 hectares.
Approximately half of this cane expansion area would be on lands owned by the Guyana
Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO), and the other half on private farmers' lands. Some of
the planned sugar cane expansion area is currently freshwater swamp forest and other
wetlands, which would be drained for cane cultivation. IDA's Natural Habitats Policy
(OP 4.04) requires adequate mitigation measures (such as a compensatory protected area)
if the project-caused natural habitat loss is deemed to be significant. The proposed sugar
cane expansion area would not qualify as a critical natural habitat under OP 4.04, since
large expanses of similar and less disturbed wetland habitats occur in the general vicinity.
However, in accordance with the IDA's Environmental Assessment and Natural Habitats
policies, a full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) will be carried out. The EIA
will assess the relative significance of the natural habitat area to be converted to cane
cultivation and recommend appropriate mitigation measures as part of the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) for the Skeldon area expansion. The EIA (presently under
preparation) is expected to cover the full range of environmental and related social issues
associated with the factory, new cultivation area, and irrigation and drainage system. The
Government of Guyana accepts that the completed EIA--including EMP agreed between
Government (including GUYSUCO and the Environmental Protection Agency, EPA) and
the IDA-will be a requirement for signing the construction contract for the new sugar
factory and associated new irrigation and drainage works. It is anticipated that the
completed EIA and agreed EMP will be a World Bank condition for appraisal of the
future PRSC-ll.
6.    In addition to the Skeldon area expansion, GUYSUCO intends to initiate the
divestiture of surplus sugar cultivation lands prior to the PRSC-II. These land parcels are



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex V                               V.3
located in the vicinity of Georgetown and other coastal areas, all far away from Skeldon.
The parcels which might be sold off in the foreseeable future are mostly under 100
hectares and are presently or recently cultivated; none contain significant patches of any
natural habitats.
7.    Mining. The Government is considering the drafting of a new mining law which
would facilitate new mining investments, while promoting improved environmental
management. In certain respects, passage of a new mining law would represent a
considerable environmental improvement, compared to the current legal framework. For
example, the new law and implementing regulations would probably likely provide a
stronger legal basis for controlling the ongoing, often highly destructive informal placer
mining (for gold and diamonds), such as by requiring settling ponds to keep sediment
from degrading rivers. On the other hand, a new mining law would inevitably seek to
attract new, large-scale mining by international companies. The establishment of any
such large new mines (and associated facilities, such as access roads, camps, and
company towns) would require careful management to minimize and mitigate adverse
environmental impacts. Accordingly, it is expected that the PRSC-Il would require (prior
to appraisal, most likely in 2004) the completion of a Sector Environmental Assessment
(SEA) of mining in Guyana. The SEA would provide recommendations for improving
the draft new mining law and regulations from an environmental standpoint; it would also
identify priority actions for the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission (GGMC) and
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to implement. Passage of a new mining law
which adequately incorporates environmental provisions has been suggested as a prior
condition for possible subsequent PRSC's after 2004.
8.    Forestry. Guyana's Forestry Commission is drafting a new Forests Act; the
current forestry law was enacted in 1953 and is outdated and relatively weak with respect
to environmental issues. Passage of the new Forests Act is proposed as a prior condition
for the PRSC-II, most likely in 2004. In the interim, the Forestry Commission expects to
carry out stakeholder consultations, so as to improve the sense of ownership of the new
law, both within the Government and civil society. The Government understands that for
its part, the IDA will need to review the draft legislation and advise Government whether
the proposed new law is broadly consistent with the spirit of the IDA's Forestry, Natural
Habitats, Indigenous Peoples, and other environmental and social Safeguard Policies.
The IDA is also in the process of reviewing the 1988 Code of Practice for Forest
Operations and, if useful, might suggest some technical changes to Guyana's Forestry
Commission. This Code of Practice provides guidelines for forestry operations in
Guyana, which would become legally binding regulations upon passage of the new
Forests Act. It is anticipated that the new Forests Act will substantially improve the legal
basis for sustainable and environmentally sound management of Guyana's forests. For
example, the new law will provide for improved environmental and forestry controls,
increased transparency and public involvement, reduced opportunities for corruption,
new forest conservation concessions and special protected areas, and respect for
Amerindian rights and opportunities for community-based forestry on Amerindian lands.
9.    Water. Notwithstanding Guyana's abundance of fresh water, there are serious
deficiencies in the availability and quality of potable water, especially for the poor.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex V                                 V.4
Accordingly, the PRSC-I supports wholesale restructuring of Guyana's potable water
supply system, including the merger of two existing utilities to form Guyana Water, and a
variety of other institutional, management, and pricing changes. The PRSC also supports
the establishment of national drinking water quality standards and the extension of water
supply services to squatter settlements and remote hinterland (including indigenous)
communities. The types of investments required to improve the availability of high-
quality drinking water will include wells, pipes, and treatment facilities, none of which
have significant adverse environmental impacts. No new water storage reservoirs are
planned in Guyana--and none are needed--for achieving potable water supply objectives,
since these are to be satisfied using groundwater. However, the Skeldon sugar expansion
(discussed above) will involve the expansion of an existing conservancy (shallow
reservoir) for cane irrigation (which will be analyzed in the Environmental Impact
Assessment prior to PRSC-1I).
10.   Private Investment. The PRSC-I supports the Government's efforts to increase
private investment in Guyana, especially in small and medium enterprises which are
considered especially important for new employment creation. The PRSC-I promotes
two new laws intended to improve the overall conditions for private investment in
Guyana. The new Investment Code clarifies some "rules of the game" and seeks to
promote new investment in a wide range of economic activities, such as agriculture,
fisheries, forestry, manufacturing, energy, mining, handicrafts, communications and
transport, construction, tourism, trade, and professional services. The proposed Small
Business Empowerment Act provides for a Small Business Council, fiscal incentives, and
a variety of other assistance for small businesses in Guyana. While both laws seek to
improve the overall environment for operating businesses in Guyana, neither law tries to
"pick winners" by favoring some businesses or sectors over others. Neither law would in
any way remove or loosen the Environmental Protection Act or other environment-
related laws or regulations, nor would they inhibit the future development of additional
environmental protections. From an environmental standpoint, it is worth noting that
many small and medium enterprises in Guyana are rather benign or directly beneficial
(such as eco-tourism, which typically provides strong incentives to conserve forests,
wildlife, and other natural resources). Other businesses (such as fisheries and wood
working) are linked to natural resource extraction which may or may not be currently
sustainable. It should be noted that two of the most environmentally sensitive industries
in Guyana, mining and forestry, are subject to separate laws which the PRSC will seek to
improve from an environmental standpoint (as well as in other respects).
11.   Public Consultation. The PRSC supports a subset of the policy reforms and
priority investments identified in the PRSP. The PRSP recommended actions are
outlined in the PRSP Appendix, "Guyana Policy and Performance Matrix, 2002-2005".
The PRSP was produced following an extensive public consultation process, and
involved approximately 8,400 participants.18 Over 200 consultations consisting of 109
community consultations and 98 target groups consultations were conducted in all 10
regions of the country.
18    With a population estimated at about 800,000, this implies a coverage of about 1% of the
population, considerably higher than in most other PRSP countries.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex V                                V.5
12.   The consultation process was based on a fairly elaborate structure, involving a
donor coordination unit, a PRSP steering committee, the PRSP Secretariat and the
Resource Teams as well as a broad range of community groups and other civil society
organizations. A preliminary workshop was held with identified stakeholder groups and
constituents to design the consultation process. This workshop laid particular emphasis
on the need to consult with all groups, including those based on ethnic origins, gender,
age, education and occupation. Before starting the consultation process, a Participatory
Action Plan (PAP) was drafted by the PRSP secretariat. The PAP was subsequently
reviewed and modified through discussions with civil society, Government and donor
groups.
13.   Resource teams were trained in Georgetown on the conduct of the consultations,
and the process was launched by President Jagdeo on June 18, 2001. The initial plan was
to have 72 community consultations, but because of popular demand, the number of
community consultations expanded to 109. In addition, 98 target group consultations
were held by civil society groups, of which 83 were carried out by religious
organizations, and others by women, farmers, and youth groups. Special consultations
were carried out in Amerindian areas. Following these local level consultations, regional
consultations were carried out in each of Guyana's ten regions in an attempt to prioritize
the findings coming from the community and target group consultations. The inputs from
both consultations were fed into the development of a draft PRSP, which was circulated
to key groups and discussed in October, 2001 at a national consultation in Georgetown.
14.   The PRSP   reflects the results of the consultation.  The draft PRSP was
adjusted to reflect the priorities identified during the consultation process. These new
areas of emphasis include a better or new discussions of governance, health, education,
small scale businesses, rural electricity, housing and other issues. The consultations
emphasized some essential points:
* Poverty is clearly linked with inadequate employment opportunities;
* Ineffective and unresponsive government agencies, particularly at the local level, are
seen as not providing key services, and not listening to local preferences. At times,
lack of oversight and control leads to corruption and misuse of funds.
* Key shortages in the education, health, housing and water sectors are a constant
problem, as well as the weaknesses in institutions designed to provide these public
services.
15.   All of the policy reforms and other Government actions of environmental
significance to be supported by the PRSC were identified in the PRSP and discussed
during the public consultation, with the possible exception of the proposed new Forestry
Act. However, it is expected that the draft Forestry Act will be further consultation with
interested stakeholders (including environmental NGOs and forest industries) before it is
submitted for final passage.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex V                                  V.6
16.   Public Disclosure. This Environmental Analysis (EA) Report has been sent to
the IDA's InfoShop in Washington; it is also available to interested Guyanese citizens in
the Office of the President, the EPA and IDA Office in Georgetown, Guyana. The same
public disclosure measures have been taken for the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP, which forms the conceptual underpinnings for the PRSC).



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VI                             VI.1
ANNEX VI
Guyana: Proposed System of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of the PRSP
The monitoring and evaluation program for the Guyana PRSP would build on the
principles of the PRSP process itself. The program needs to be country-owned,
comprehensive and performance-based. The program would also draw on international
good practices for M&E, with the data and analysis for taking stock of PRSP progress
generated with a combination of quantitative, qualitative and participatory methods.
There should also be feedback mechanisms to ensure that the information collected is
available to the wider public, credible, and used for planning and decision making. This
calls for a system design that is multi-level, multi-sectoral, and engages a variety of
stakeholders both within and outside the government.
Important elements of the proposed M&E program emerged from an exploratory
workshop on "Designing a Monitoring and Evaluation Initiative for the Guyana PRSP",
which included fifty participants from around the country from govemment, civil society
and the donor community and was held in Georgetown on January 30, 2002. Workshop
participants emphasized an agenda of monitoring focused especially on issues of good
governance and an institutional design that engaged people at the community level in all
stages of the process. Participants also stressed the importance of transparency of
information generated for monitoring and evaluation, and of capacity building programs
to support access to and use of this information. The rationale was that improved access
and capacity would not only contribute to better planning and decisionmaking within
government, but would also provide an important foundation for independent and
effective oversight of public policies, financial management, and service delivery among
civil society.
With these objectives in mind, a new institutional mechanism called the Poverty
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit has been proposed. Its responsibilities include acting as
a catalyst across government and civil society for a comprehensive and inclusive program
of monitoring and evaluation of the goals and indicators set forth in the PRSP. The unit's
responsibilities include coordinating M&E responsibilities across government, building
M&E capacities of key ministries and agencies with PRSP responsibilities and of citizens
groups at the community level, tracking key policy reforms of the PRSP, PRSC and
HIPC, and promoting broad-based dissemination of PRSP activities and progress. The
PCPMU would be located within the proposed Policy Planning Unit under the Office of
the President. Diagram I highlights the PCPMU's multi-sectoral and multi-leveled
relationships within and outside of the public sector. The remainder of this note describes
the functions of the new unit in greater detail.
Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Steering Committee. Prior to setting up the
PCPMU, a Steering Committee will be established to provide overall guidance on and
oversight of the monitoring and evaluation program of the PRSP, and the work program
of the PCPMU in support of this. The Steering Committee will also conduct a public
review and consultation on the annual Poverty Progress Report produced by the PCPMU.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VI                              VI.2
The Steering Committee will meet twice a year, and comprise twelve representatives
from central and local government, the statistical bureau, trade unions, private sector and
leading civil society organizations. It is recommended that the representatives serve two-
year terms which are staggered and that the different constituencies self-appoint their
respective representatives to the Steering Committee.
Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. A new Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit will be established in the policy planning unit within the Office of the President and
report to the Head of the Presidential Secretariat. Its responsibilities will include: 1)
coordinating a network of focal points within each relevant government ministry and
agency for purposes of developing and executing a comprehensive and performance-
based M&E program for the PRSP; 2) providing technical support and managing capacity
building programs on M&E for key ministries and agencies; 3) piloting an innovative
community-based M&E program on local PRSP policy impacts and activities; 4) tracking
key policy reforms within the PRSP, HIPC and PRSC, and 5) developing and executing a
public outreach program on PRSP activities and progress on the goals and indicators.
1. M&E coordination. The PCPMU will create and coordinate a network of focal points
with M&E responsibilities in each of the ministries and agencies engaged in
implementing the PRSP. The network should catalyze exchange of information about
agency performance and data collection methods and tools. The PCPMU will also
work closely with the focal points to develop an M&E strategy for that
ministry/agency, a set of indicators for regular monitoring and reporting to the
PCPMU, and strategic areas that may require evaluation or in-depth study to advance
the policy agenda for that ministry/agency. By December 1, 2002, the PCPMU will
make available a plan that identifies for each ministry/agency:  1) the officer
responsible for reporting quarterly on monitoring activities to the poverty monitoring
unit; 2) the indicators and methods that will be used for the M&E system; 3) the
mechanisms for the data collection and analysis; and 4) capacity building needs to
carry out these functions.
The Government has committed in the PRSP to improving its monitoring indicators
and to expanding the coverage and quality of data available on PRSP policies and
activities. In line with M&E good practice, the PMEU will encourage activities that
combine various data collection methods and information sources, including IT-based
management information systems, the Living Standards Measurement Survey and
other specialized surveys, qualitative impact studies, and expenditure tracking and
input studies. The next section outlines a community-based participatory M&E
initiative that will also enhance the overall M&E program.
The PRSP in particular calls for studies that track public expenditures and provide
information on which population groups are benefiting from public spending. It also
calls for continued "public debate on the composition of expenditures." In this
regard, it will be important for the PMEU to strengthen reporting by ministries and
agencies on financial performance and linkages with outputs and outcomes, to



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VI                             VI.3
disclose this information, and to encourage broad-based discussion on the findings
and policy implications.
Drawing on the various M&E initiatives in the ministries and agencies, the PCPMU
will collect routine monitoring data on a quarterly basis and specialized M&E studies
as they become available. These inputs will form the basis for the PMEU's
preparation of a the country's annual poverty progress report on the PRSP.
2. Public sector capacity building for M&E. In close consultation with the ministry and
agency focal points, the PCPMU will design and execute an M&E capacity building
program in priority sectors of the PRSP, such as good governance and an improved
macroeconomic framework. The PCPMU will hire and supervise, as needed,
specialist consultants to conduct trainings, specialized evaluations, expenditure
tracking and input studies, or qualitative fieldwork in key policy areas. The capacity
building program should also advance the use of M&E information for planning and
decision making. Again, trainings may be directed at strengthening oversight of
financial performance and analysis of the links between budgeting and specific
development outputs and outcomes.
3. Community-based M&E of PRSP. The PCPMU will pilot a community-based M&E
program in three regions. The communities will be selected for participation in the
pilot based on their involvement in PRSP initiatives in 2002 and 2003. The program
will work in partnership with community-based and other local institutions, including
Neighborhood Development Councils, Community Development Committees,
religious organizations, women's groups and youth groups. The facilitators' role will
include helping communities to access information about local development
initiatives; building local capacity for organizing and monitoring community
improvement projects; and helping communities establish ties with relevant service
delivery agencies.
The participating community groups will also be partners with the PCPMU in
gathering and reporting information on local impacts of PRSP macro and sectoral
policies. The facilitators will work with the groups to develop a core set of
monitoring indicators and a standardized but flexible reporting framework for the
groups. These assessments together with the local groups' reports on progress on
their own tailored community's performance indicators will be reported to the
PCPMU. The PCPMU will then consolidate this data and analysis from the
communities and disseminate it in the yearly Poverty Progress Report. There should
also be annual consultations in each region with community representatives and local
and regional officials to share M&E experiences and identify follow-up actions. If
the pilot is successful, it will be phased into the other seven regions of Guyana.
4. Outreach Program. The PCPMU will design and execute a communications strategy
to ensure that the information generated on progress toward the PRSP's goals and
indicators is widely available. The strategy may include such activities as creating
and maintaining a website, conducting media training and press briefings for national



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VI                              VI.4
and regional correspondents, and convening regional and local level public
consultations on PRSP progress.
The PCPMU staffing needs to include: a coordinator to manage the PMEU, network
with the line agencies and prepare the annual poverty progress report; an
analyst(sociologist) to assist with quantitative and qualitative data collection, analysis
and report preparation activities; two community-development facilitators to run the pilot
program; and a communications specialist to run the outreach program. The terms of
reference for these positions should require demonstrated experience in the technical
areas and an orientation to participatory monitoring approaches.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                           VII. I
ANNEX VII
REVIEW OF AMERINDIAN ISSUES
Introduction
Background. Guyana's indigenous peoples are referred to locally and collectively as
Amerindians. They make up the majority population in the interior region of the country
bordering Surinam, Brazil, and Venezuela. Anthropologists distinguish nine distinct
Amerindian peoples in Guyana - the Carib, Warao, Arawak, Akawaio, Patamona,
Makushi, Arekuna, Wapishana and Wai Wai.19 The Carib are a traditional hunting and
fishing people widely spread out along the coast; by the time Europeans arrived in the
1500s, much of the trading economy along the coast was dominated by the Carib. The
social and economic order of the Warao in the mangrove and swamp forests along the
coast is traditionally based on fishing, palm starch and tuber cultivation. The Arawak
populate the higher ground along the rivers, and may in the past have practiced intensive
agriculture by establishing elaborate raised fields in the interior lowlands. Further inland
live the Akawaio and Patamona, especially on the middle and upper reaches of the
Mazaruni, Potaro and Ireng riVers, in the Pakaraima mountains. The Akawaio were
renowned traders, notably of cassava graters and delicate handmade river crafts from the
bark of the "purple heart" tree. The Carib-speaking Makushi live in widely dispersed,
small homesteads across the Rupununi savannahs of southern Guyana. Related to the
Makushi, the Arekuna live along the western border of Guyana and are renowned for
their egalitarian traditions. Still further south live the Wapishana, another group highly
skilled in agriculture, fishing and hunting, who produce an abundance of cotton
hammocks. In the far south of Guyana live the forest dwelling Wai Wai, consisting of a
number of groups who once subsisted through trade of forest products and hunting.
These Amerindian communities have been and continue to be highly dependent for their
livelihoods on access to land and natural (including sub-surface mineral) resources, as
well as on neighboring communities through long-established networks of trading
alliances.
Today, Guyana's indigenous peoples comprise eight percent (about 63,000) of the total
population. Their settlements are sparsely distributed throughout the vast Amazonian
hinterland of Guyana, primarily in Regions 1, 7, 8, and 9. Recent community-based
survey data indicate that the indigenous peoples inhabit some 131 communities
throughout the hinterland region (of which only 76 have title to their lands), an area
generally difficult to access from the coastal plain and comprising dense forest,
mountains, and extensive savannah. Further compounding the highly limited access are
the challenges of governance that consequently have a deleterious impact on the ability of
the government to effectively deliver needed services.
Poverty. Approximately 80% of the Guyana Amerindian population falls under the
poverty line. Amerindian women are especially vulnerable. The high poverty rates are
19 This section draws on the work of Marcus Colchester, Guyana: Fragile Frontier: Loggers, Miners, and
Forest Peoples, World Rainforest Movement, Gloucestershire, UK, 1997



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                             VII. 2
attributable to a complex mix of issues including the difficult terrain, dispersed settlement
patterns, the high cost of administering projects in the interior, the dearth of certain skills
among Amerindians and in the wider population, and the lack of an effective mechanism
for channeling indigenous concerns to policy makers.
The Household Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES) of 1993 shows that 75% of the
Amerindians surveyed (13,828 out of a total of 18,429) are in the self-employed category,
concentrated in traditional subsistence activities such as agriculture, hunting and forestry.
Smaller numbers, fewer than 500 in total, are self-employed in fishing, mining,
quarrying, and manufacturing. Furthermore, of the Amerindians surveyed by the HIES,
689 males and 884 females claimed to be illiterate. Close to one-half of that number (315
males and 317 females) were between 5 and 9 years old. Only 0.1% of the interior
population has received post-secondary education. Basic and secondary education suffer
from low attendance rates, shortages of trained teachers and scarce supplies.
Levels of disease, mortality, infant mortality, and famine among the Amerindians are all
significantly higher than among other non-indigenous groups within the country.
According to the HIES (1993), less than five percent (2,981) of Amerindians are of age
55 years or older, a reflection of an overall poor state of health. Access to potable water
is very low in the majority of Amerindian communities. The traditional source of potable
water from creeks and rivers has increasingly come under threat of pollution due to the
rapid growth of resource extractive industries in the interior beginning from the early
1980s.
Understandably therefore, Amerindian communities are mainly concerned with accessing
resources to address their poverty and basic needs. The consultations on the PRSP,
including those carried out by Amerindian community leaders, highlighted this
preoccupation strongly. The sectors given highest priority by Amerindian communities
were employment generation, cottage industry, drinking water, rural roads, agriculture,
health, and education.
The main outcomes of the PRSP process reflect most of these concerns, insofar as the
PRSP underscores the need to generate employment, and improve the delivery of basic
social services (health care, education, water/sanitation, housing) to hinterland
communities. The PRSP also emphasizes the need to improve governance and public
sector accountability, particularly at the local government level. Furthermore, it includes
among the seven pillars of the poverty reduction strategy a series of specialized
interventions aimed at addressing poverty reduction issues in some of the country's
poorest hinterland areas, including three regions with majority Amerindian populations
(Regions 1, 8 and 9).20
Nevertheless, some past development efforts have resulted in a culture of poverty and
dependence in which Amerindians are often only passive beneficiaries of the projects that
target their communities. As a result, once project interventions wind down, the situation
2) See para. 7(a), 7(b) and 7(c) of the PRSP, pages 44-46.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                             VII. 3
quickly reverts to the persistently low levels of education, health, agricultural production
and food security.
Land Rights. Another issue of primary concern among Amerindian communities in
Guyana is that of land rights - the collective ownership of land and its natural resources.
Many Amerindian communities hold title to some of their traditional lands under the
1976 Amerindian Act, representing approximately 16% of the national territory. Of 131
Amerindian communities, 76 have received clear title, held communally. The majority of
the land titling took place between 1969 and 1976, although a number of titles were also
issued in 1991. Land title encompasses usufruct rights - to fish, farm and hunt on the
land - as well as rights to all timber on reserved lands and occupancy rights. While
strictly speaking, the subsoil rights are excluded, Amerindian communities carry out
traditional, small-scale mining in their community-titled land. While Amerindians hold
land collectively, individual/family parcels have also been identified and generally
accepted at the community level.
The land rights system established by the Amerindian Act, however, remains incomplete
and uncertain. Outstanding issues that remain to this day include the following:
* Inadequate land grants in terms of areas covered;
* Boundary lines were not, until recently, physically demarcated21. This led to
conflicts between communities and State Lands authorities and/or the Guyana
Forestry Commission and sawmill concessions;
* Little training of local authorities to administer and manage titled lands; and
* Very few individual titles were granted in practice although the Amerindian Act
provides for them.
Two legal actions are currently pending against the Government of Guyana (GoG) on
Amerindian land issues. One law suit - the first of its kind in Guyana -- was filed in
November 1998 by six Akawaio and Pemon indigenous community leaders seeking,
among other things, title to an area totaling about 3,000 sq. miles formerly known as the
1959 Upper Mazaruni Amerindian District (the area eventually titled in 1991 totaled
1,500 sq. miles). The 1959 area itself is a fraction of an area granted to Amerindians in
1945 (4,500 sq. miles) but which was subsequently de-reserved by 1,500 sq. miles for
mining purposes in 1959. The suit still stands but has not yet been granted a hearing
date. The other pending court case pertains to Kaieteur National Park (KNP). A legal
action was filed in 2000 against the government by an Amerindian Captain on behalf of
the neighboring village of Chenapau, which seeks protection of their constitutional and
traditional rights vis-a-vis the extension of KNP. Application is made in the legal action
for, inter alia, declarations that the Amerindian people are entitled to enjoyment of their
historical and traditional rights, privileges and freedoms in the extended park, and that the
KNP (Amendment) Order 1999 is unconstitutional.
21 Although recent progress has been made in this regard under the GoG's phased regional approach to
Amerindian lands demarcation.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                            VII. 4
Benefit Sharing from Natural Resource Extraction. Amerindian communities also
want a share of royalties from the extraction of natural resources, in particular subsoil
resources, from their lands. Amerindian communities are concerned that Georgetown-
based urban mercantile companies make profits from their natural resources and they
demand a "fair deal" in the extraction of natural resources (a proportional revenue
sharing commensurate to the extraction and revenue).
Specific Amerindian Social and Environmental Concerns
Of the various PRSC-supported reforms outlined in the Policy Matrix, those of
significance from the Amerindian perspective involve mining, forestry, water (in
particular, the hinterland component), private investment, education, health and rural
roads. The PRSC-supported actions of highest sensitivity are mining and forestry.
Amerindians are seriously concerned about the socio-economic impacts of mining. The
presence of mining operations in or near Amerindian areas tends to affect the population
in several ways. More lucrative mining jobs tend to pull Amerindian men away from
farming and other traditional means of livelihood, resulting in a serious impact on food
production in some communities. School life is often interrupted as young males
abandon their education to earn cash in the mining fields or in associated activities, such
as the trade of scarce goods over the Brazilian and Venezuelan borders for sale to miners.
Income earned from mining often does not benefit the Amerindian communities, since it
is usually spent on the coast or elsewhere. Amerindian women and youth suffer
disproportionately from the negative impacts of mining, in terms of the social disruption,
sexual exploitation and disease that accompanies the mining "way of life." Malaria is a
serious problem in the mining areas, as is the high incidence of sexually transmitted
disease. Alcoholism, drugs, violence and crime are also common features of these areas.
The Amerindian communities are also concerned about the environmental (in particular
river) pollution brought about by mining. There are complaints about the current practice
of highly destructive dredging operations and informal placer mining (for gold and
diamonds) that degrade rivers. While the passage of a new mining law may represent a
considerable environmental improvement in controlling river degradation compared to
the current legal framework, a new mining law would seek to attract new large-scale
mining by international companies. The establishment of any such large new mines (and
associated facilities, such as access roads, camps, and company towns) would require
careful regulation to minimize and mitigate adverse environmental impacts.
As with mining, the draft Forests Bill (along with any accompanying regulations),
proposes to address the commercial activities in Amerindian lands. There are similar
concerns among the Amerindian communities about the revision of the Local
Government Act. In the water sector, there is concern that private sector participation in
the water service industry may not adequately ensure access and service to low income
Amerindian communities.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                                       VII. 5
Status of Relevant Legislation
The Amerindian Act of 1976 is the primary law of Guyana regulating Amerindian affairs.
Other laws, like the State Lands Act, the Forests Act (under revision) and the Mining Act
also affect Amerindian land and resource use rights, while the Local Government Act
22
contains provisions relevant to the governance of Amerindian areas.
Land Rights. One of the provisions for Guyana's independence agreed to in 1965 was
the stipulation that Amerindians "be granted legal ownership or rights of occupancy over
areas and reservations or parts thereof where any tribe or community of Amerindians is
now ordinarily resident or settled...." To fulfill this commitment, the Amerindian Lands
Commission was formed in 1966, held hearings throughout the country and reported in
1969. The Commission's final report (June 1969) made detailed recommendations for
Amerindian villages, districts and areas. The Commission recommended that 128
Amerindian communities receive title to about 24,000 sq. miles (as opposed to 43,000 sq.
miles requested by Amerindians at the time).
The Commission's recommendations were partially implemented by the 1976
Amerindian Act, which serves to transfer title to 65 districts and villages recognized by
the Commission. The Act also grants Amerindian village and area councils status as
corporate bodies with the power to hold the collective title. Additional titles were
subsequently granted in 1991 to communities in the Upper Mazaruni, bringing the total
number of formally recognized Amerindian communities to 76 (covering a total of about
6,000 sq. miles).
It is important to note, however, that every transfer of title made under the Amerindian
Act is subject to implied conditions which cut down considerably on the rights of the
Amerindian community, including the following:
*   The "Minister" (presently, the Minister of Amerindian Affairs) has a right under
the Act to repossess land or any part of it on behalf of the State in the public
interest (although compensation has to be paid based on the market value of the
land under the Acquisition of Lands for Public Purposes Act);
*  The Act also gives the Minister the power to enlarge or reduce the size of
Amerindian lands either by deleting a district, area or village, or any portion of
22 This section is based in part on the following reviews and reports: Marcus CoIchester, Jean LaRose and
Kid James, "Mining and Amerindians in Guyana" (pre-publication document prepared by APA, August
2001); Craig Forcese, "Decolonizing Guyana's Interior: Recommendations on the Reform of Laws
Pertaining to the Amerindian Peoples of Guyana" (report prepared for APA, July 1994); Melinda Janki,
"Indigenous Peoples: Review of Land and Resource Rights in Guyana" (draft report prepared for NPAS
project, 1997); Tara Letwiniuk, "The Amerindian Act of Guyana. Discussion and Suggested Revisions"
(report prepared for now-defunct Amerindian umbrella organization, National Amerindian Council, 1996);
Douglas Sanders, "Amerindian Peoples in Guyana" (March 1995 - preinvestment study for the EPA
project prepared by the Bank but subsequently funded by IDB). The issues raised in this section should be
subject to further technical review by legal specialists in national and international laws related to
indigenous peoples.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                             VII. 6
land held by the Amerindian Council or by varying the boundaries of any district,
area or village by order;
*  The Act provides that Amerindian titles do not include areas within 66 feet on
both sides of rivers and do not include minerals or mining rights, air landing areas
or state buildings and installations;
*  Amerindian communities have no right to dispose of the land under the
Amerindian Act, and the Minister may forfeit the title, right or interest of any
Amerindian community if she is satisfied that members of the community have
shown themselves by act or speech to be disloyal or disaffected towards the State.
The effect of these provisions is that the extent and continued existence of Amerindian
titles granted under the Act depend to a large extent upon the good will of the
Government (although the exercise of the Government's powers would be subject to the
Constitution, which contains protection against deprivation of property and
discrimination on the grounds of race).
State Lands. The rights of Amerindians over state lands are contained in the State Lands
Act. Although the Act says it is an offense for any person to trespass or unlawfully
occupy any of the state lands, Amerindian rights are specifically protected. These rights
and privileges over state lands are defined by the State Lands (Amerindian) Regulations
which, among other things, give Amerindians a right of occupation over state lands
which are ungranted and unlicensed. This right is limited to residence, and does not carry
with it any rights to clear the forest or cultivate, unless there has been previous clearing
or cultivation. The regulations also allow Amerindians to extract materials for personal
use, such as for construction of residences or canoes, with permission.
Forests Act: Rights in respect to state forests are governed by the Forests Act. The
current Act in force contains the provision that "Nothing in this Act shall be construed to
prejudice, alter or affect any right or privilege heretofore legally possessed, exercised, or
enjoyed by any Amerindian in Guyana, provided that the Minister from time to time by
publication in the Gazette may make any regulations (...) defining the privileges and
rights to be enjoyed by Amerindians in state forests." No regulations appear to have been
made under this section in relation to Amerindian rights and privileges. The rights and
privileges that existed over state land before it became state forest would be saved by this
provision.
The currently revised draft Forests Bill23 would appear to take this a step further, insofar
as it provides that "... all lands in State forests occupied or used by Amerindian
communities and all land necessary for the quiet enjoyment by the Amerindians ... are
deemed to be lawfully occupied by them." The revised Bill retains the Minister's right to
"make regulations, subject to negative resolution of the National Assembly, regulating
the exercise of any rights and privileges legally possessed, exercised or enjoyed by
Amerindians in Guyana in relation to State forests." But it spells out the necessary steps
for consultation on any proposed regulations that would have to be taken prior to



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                             VII. 7
finalizing them, and also provides for compensation to Amerindians for any resulting
"restraint" on the exercise of their rights in state forests.
The existing Forests Act allows the Minister to declare any area of state land to be a state
forest. Under this provision, any land owned by any Amerindian community would be
excluded from any extension of state forest lands. It is not clear under the current Forests
Act what rights Amerindians have over state forest that is subject to any grant or license
given by the Guyana Forestry Commission (GFC), although the wording suggests that the
GFC cannot restrict the rights and privileges of Amerindians, nor would they have
jurisdiction over the forest resources on Amerindian lands.
The draft Forests Bill states that exploratory or use permits do not allow activities or the
right to occupy any area in a state forest "lawfully occupied" by an Amerindian
community. The draft Bill also contains a new provision for the commercialization of
forest products on Amerindian lands, whereby GFC is granted a technical advisory role in
the negotiation of any commercial forestry contracts between any person and an
Amerindian community for the exploitation of resources in the relevant Amerindian
lands. This provision is in need of further clarification insofar as GFC is given an
implied discretionary role in defining the conditions of this transaction in the absence of
any rules governing forest operations set by the relevant Amerindian Council.
Since forestry legislation has implications for the Amerindian right to land and natural
resources under the Amerindian Act, the passage of the revised Forests Act should be
preceded by a further round of transparent stakeholder consultations with the hinterland
Amerindian communities.
Protected Areas. Guyana currently has two legislated protected areas - the Iwokrama
Wilderness Preserve and Kaieteur National Park. The Iwokrama International Centre for
Rainforest Conservation and Development Act creates the Iwokrama Centre and divides
the area into a wilderness preserve and a sustainable use area. The Act prohibits mining,
forestry and other resources utilization of the Iwokrama area, unless the Iwokrama Centre
gives consent. Section 6 of the Act specifically recognizes and protects legal and
traditional Amerindian rights, stating that, "Nothing in this Act shall be construed to
prejudice, alter or affect any right or privilege heretofore legally or traditionally
possessed, exercised or enjoyed by an Amerindian who has a particular connection with
any area of land within or neighbouring the Programme Site." The Act does not give any
indication as to what would amount to a "particular connection" but it would seem
reasonable that any Amerindian living in the Iwokrama area or who would usually enter
and travel across it would have a particular connection with the site. As with other
legislation, Amerindian rights and privileges are not defined but would probably include
non-commercial hunting and fishing and traditional rights of passage.
Kaieteur National Park was created in 1929 as Guyana's only national park by the British
Commonwealth and was formally established by the Kaieteur National Park Act. As
there is no saving provision in the Act for Amerindian rights or privileges, it essentially
removes any rights and privileges that Amerindians may have had over the area



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                            VII. 8
encompassed by the National Park. The Act was amended in 1999 to extend the size of
the park (which, until then, was deemed to be too small to provide for effective protection
of the area). This was done, however, without prior consultation of affected Amerindian
communities. A second amendment was passed in 2000 in the wake of a meeting held
the previous year with then-President Janet Jagan by Amerindian Captains from the
affected region (Region 8). But in the eyes of the Amerindians, the second amendment
still failed to adequately protect Amerindian rights and privileges in the KNP area, and,
as mentioned above, a legal action was filed in 2000 against the government by then-
Captain Tony Melville on behalf of the village of Chenapau seeking protection of their
constitutional and traditional rights vis-a-vis the extension of KNP.
* In the context of developing a national protected areas system, it is clear that
Amerindian land ownership, land claims, and Amerindian claims to continued
traditional or customary access to land for the sustainable extraction of natural
resources will need to be addressed by the process of legislative reform under the
proposed Guyana Protected Areas System (GPAS) project.
Mining Act: Amerindian Councils given title under the Amerindian Act were not given
any title, right or interest to minerals found on land within their village or district (except
for an area up to six inches from the surface). The primary mining legislation is the
Mining Act of 1989, which establishes the state as the owner of all mineral resources.
The government thus asserts the right to issue mining permits anywhere in Guyana,
including on Amerindian lands - although current regulations limit small- and medium-
scale mining on titled Amerindian lands. After recent complaints by Amerindians, the
Government also adopted a policy requiring large-scale companies to consult with
Amerindians when prospecting on Amerindian titled lands (although some groups have
asserted that the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission - GGMC -- is not overseeing
these negotiations as required in the contracts).
As with the draft Forests Bill, the eventual revision of the mining legislation should be
preceded by transparent consultations with hinterland Amerindian communities. Some
recommendations that have been made for the eventual revision of mining legislation in
relation to Amerindian concerns include the following:
* Amend the Mining Act to clearly prohibit small-, medium- and large-scale mining
on lands owned by Amerindians without the prior and informed consent of the
communities;
* Ensure that mining activities in areas traditionally used or otherwise occupied by
Amerindians are contingent on their prior and informed consent;
* Ensure provision of timely information to communities about mining activities
proposed in their areas;
* Establish mechanisms for the negotiation of legally binding and enforceable
agreements between Amerindians and prospective miners;
* Provide mechanisms for benefit sharing to communities that have accepted
mining in their localities;



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                            VII. 9
* Require performance bonds by miners as security for their compliance with their
legal obligations, including those agreed with Amerindian communities; and
* As with any legislative reform that has implications for the Amerindians, such
reform should take into account the Amerindian Act and should be undertaken in
close consultation with Amerindian communities.
Local Government Act: The Amerindian villages in Guyana have long been governed
through a system of Village Councils originally established by colonial authorities.
Under the British, Captains of the Amerindian Village Councils were given the power of
rural constables and Councils were empowered to levy taxes, enact rules and regulations
for a number of prescribed purposes, and hold hearings and levy fines for noncompliance
with rules and regulations. The authority of Village Captains and Councils was formally
recognized in 1955 by Ordinance 22. The 1976 Amerindian Act reaffirmed the
governing role of Village Captains and Councils and furthermore provided for the
Councils to become the owners of Amerindian titled lands. Lands were vested by the Act
in the Councils to be held in trust for the benefit of their communities. In 1990, the
authority of Amerindian Captains to act as justices of the peace was also reaffirmed under
the Miscellaneous Enactments (Amendment) Act.
With the passage of the Local Democratic Organ Act in 1980, the government divided
Guyana into 10 administrative regions, and established a revised system of local and
regional government including Regional Democratic Councils (RDCs), Community
Development Councils and Neighborhood Democratic Councils (NDCs) under the
administration of the Minister of Local Government.
As they stand today, there is very little administrative decentralization in Guyana's local
government system; it is primarily a de-concentration. The RDCs and NDCs are entirely
dependent on central transfers (subventions), while the "gazetted/ legally recognized"
Amerindian Village Councils do not currently receive subventions (with the exception of
a stipend paid to the Village Captains). The "gazetted" Village Councils are, however,
empowered to implement government-funded community projects.   Furthermore,
according to the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs, there are over 50 Amerindian villages
(55 out of a total of 131) with no formal legal status or recognition - these villages
neither receive subventions nor are they empowered to implement projects.
Some recommendations that have been made for the current revision of the local
government legislation include:
* Retaining the current system of the Amerindian Village Councils (provisioned
under the Amerindian Act), but with greater administrative and financial control,
and greater access to government resources by providing for a system of
subventions to local villages based on objective, i.e. non-discretionary, criteria;
* Amending the Local Government Act to grant more powers to re-formulated
elected local government councils, including a broader mandate and the final say
in the formulation of by-laws;



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                           VII. 10
* Granting, in accordance with the Amerindian Act, the Amerindian Village
Council Captains all the powers, immunities and restrictions of a mining officer
under the Mining Act and a forest officer under the Forests Act and constable
under the Police Act;
*  Supporting capacity building to local Amerindian officials in relation to their
roles and responsibilities as Captains, and in skills related to local administration,
financial management, and project management and supervision.
There is also an urgent need to provide training and capacity building to local
Amerindian officials in relation to their roles and responsibilities as Captains/Councilors,
and in skills related to local administration, financial management, and project
management and supervision.
Government Policy for Amerindians
The GoG has implemented some programs aimed at reducing poverty among the
Amerindian communities through improved access to growth and employment, as well as
through enhancing the delivery of basic public services, such as education, health and
water. The Government has also recently undertaken a program of institutional reforms
to address the issues of economic and social development among the Amerindian
population.
The Government, nevertheless, has yet to elaborate a comprehensive policy or strategy
for addressing Amerindian concerns. Rather, it employs a fragmented, needs-driven
approach which at least until recently has been poorly financed with little coordination
with sector agencies and ministries who retain most of the authority over sectoral projects
which fall within the purview of the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs for its Amerindian
constituency. The Ministry, in essence, is responsible for coordinating a multisectoral
program with line agencies (Health, Education, Local Government, and the like) who in
most cases retain control over the funding and available technical expertise.
With the appointment of the new Minister (Carolyn Rodrigues) of Amerindian Affairs in
April 2001, however, positive steps are being taken to define and formulate the GoG
policy towards Amerindian populations. There is hope that, under her leadership, a more
coordinated approach will emerge.  The Minister's overarching approach is to
simultaneously address institutional and legal issues at the national level while supporting
capacity building and poverty-focused investment at the local level. The Ministry of
Amerindian Affairs has already been given credit for improving coordination with other
sectoral agencies and programs.
In addition to changes in the structure and function of the Ministry, the Government also
plans to establish an Indigenous Peoples Commission, mandated by the recent
constitutional reform process as one of four independent commissions, to promote and
protect the rights of indigenous peoples.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                           VII. 11
Revision of Amerindian Act. There is broad agreement that the Amerindian Act is
outdated, incomplete and in need of replacement. Although the government has, at
different times in the past, announced its intention to review and update the Act, it has
generally not followed through on its stated intention. A Select Parliamentary Committee
was formed to carry out this task in the 1990s, but it received little funding, convened
only once or twice, and was finally dissolved with the recent elections and the formation
of a new parliament. In the meantime, Amerindian communities and NGOs have
demanded that the current state of Amerindian land policy and law in Guyana warrants a
thorough review and reform process.
Various legal reviews of the Amerindian Act have been prepared in recent years, and
some of their general recommendations for revision of the legislation include the
following:
*  Revise the definition of "Amerindian" to include any person who has been
recognized as a member of an Amerindian community by virtue of the
membership rules employed by that community;
*  Grant in freehold to the Amerindian communities/councils the lands identified by
the Amerindian Lands Commission of 1966-69;
* Grant Amerindians freehold title to river banks subject to right of way open to
non-title holders;
* In keeping with provisions of several international instruments, safeguard the
rights of Amerindians to use and preserve other lands they have traditionally used
and occupied;
*  Remove any provisions related to the expropriation of Amerindian lands and any
conditions on tenure that have the effect of discriminating on the basis of race;
* Provide for joint Amerindian-Govemment co-management authority for other
territories lawfully occupied by Amerindians;
* Any reform of laws pertaining to Amerindians should be undertaken in close
consultation with Amerindians communities.
In August 2002, the Minister of Amerindian Affairs launched a public process to revise
the Amerindian Act. The steps in the process include an initial three-month period for
Amerindian community review/comments (with technical assistance from the NGOs) on
the current Act, and suggested provisions for inclusion in the new Act. This will be
followed by nation-wide consultations (about 45) of Amerindian communities to be
conducted over a period of four to six months by a technical coordinating team whose
composition would include a lawyer, an Amerindian representative, a representative from
the Amerindian Lands Commission of 1966-69, and a social scientist. The next stage
involves the compilation of a report with suggested provisions for the new legislation,
review of this report by a stakeholder committee comprised of representatives of
Amerindian communities, NGOs, the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs, and other relevant
stakeholders; finalization of the report by the technical coordinating committee; drafting
of the legislation; and submission to Parliament.  The entire process will most likely
take between one and two years.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                            VII. 12
Land Demarcation.    With the objective of speeding up the process of addressing
indigenous land issues, he government has modified its long-standing policy to first
demarcate all Amerindian lands (according to descriptions in the Amerindian Act
nationally) before considering extensions to existing titles or granting title to previously
unrecognized Amerindian communities. In order to encourage local communities to
proceed with the demarcation process, a recent Cabinet decision now allows each region
completing the first phase of the demarcation of existing boundaries to proceed to the
second phase of the process -- submission of requests for extensions and recognition of
new areas. To date, about of the 76 Amerindian villages currently titled under the
Amerindian Act have agreed to demarcation of their presently described boundaries. In
addition, there are reportedly another 55 Amerindian villages whose land rights have yet
to be recognized.
Government Programs
In the absence of a comprehensive government policy for Amerindian affairs in Guyana,
the sectoral ministries/agencies have been implementing the following specific
Government programs and initiatives targeting Amerindian communities:
Social Impact Amelioration Programme (SIMAP). Originally created in 1988 with
funding from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to address the social impacts
of structural adjustment shocks, SIMAP supports locally sponsored small-scale projects
to benefit low-income people and also create short-term employment.24 Activities under
SIMAP include technical and vocational training for youth; health and nutrition
interventions aimed at infants and pregnant/lactating mothers; small scale projects in
Amerindian areas; and emergency response projects. Now in its third phase of funding,
SIMAP has received a total of about US$50 million in funding from the IDB, of which
approximately 10% .has been or will be allocated to support the specific Amerindian
component. The Amerindian component supports small-scale community projects (about
40 projects per year), mainly in infrastructure (school construction, local roads, health
centers, etc.), but also including some training and income-generating projects, up to
US$50,000 per project, with local counterpart contributions either in cash or in kind of up
to 5% (excluding the costs of transportation, which in some hinterland regions are
extremely high). SIMAP is under the Ministry of Human Services and Social Security,
has its own Board, and counts on the support of 79 staff, including 13 locally based
Community Development Officers (down from 17 CDOs under the previous phase of the
project). SIMAP projects are community generated, but usually designed and managed
by SIMAP staff in consultation with local communities.  Recommendations for
improving SIMAP performance have focused on the need to increase local participation
in the design, implementation and supervision of the small-scale projects.
Amerindian Development Fund. Originally established under the 1976 Amerindian
Act, this Fund is currently administered by the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs to support
24 The current Minister of Amerindian Affairs, Minister Carolyn Rodrigues, is former coordinator of
SIMAP's Amerindian projects.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                           VII. 13
small works and acquisitions of equipment (tractors, chain saws, etc.) requested by the
villages. The reported approximate funding for 2002 is GY$49.6 million (US$276,000).
Education. Until recently, no mechanisms existed to ensure a coordinated approach to
education programs for Amerindian communities. The current Minister of Amerindian
Affairs is in the process of adopting a more comprehensive education strategy and, with
the proposed hiring of dedicated technical staff, it is expected that more effective
coordination with the Ministry of Education will take place. The Minister also informed
the mission of creative initiatives undertaken by the Ministry, such as a recently
established scholarship program for the secondary and post-secondary education of
hinterland students. Ongoing operations in the area of Amerindian education include
activities under the UNICEF/DFID Amazon Sub-regional Programme (in regions 1 and
9), which has supported the hiring of a Hinterland Coordinator at the Ministry of
Education, the continuation of the Escuela Nueva Initiative, and support for the
introduction of Amerindian languages into school curriculum through the Wapishana
Language Project; and the CIDA-funded Guyana Basic Education Training Project (in
regions 1, 7, 8 and 9), which provides training in basic curricula, school management and
distance education to hinterland teachers.
Health.  Initiatives in the area of health care have been mainly through the
UNICEF/DFID program, with a focus on the provision of a strategy for the Integrated
Management of Childhood Illnesses in the primary health care system of the country,
providing training in immunization and primary health care issues. The Amazon Sub-
regional Programme has also supported the Ministry of Health Malaria Control Unit in
establishing a community project in malaria management in Region 9, which, if
successful, would be replicated in other regions of the country.
Water. The GoG is undertaking a comprehensive reform of the water sector which
includes a merger of the two existing utilities and contracting out management of the new
utility, Guyana Water, to a private sector operator. The terms of the management
contract demand the establishment of a dedicated hinterland unit to address issues of
access to potable water supply services in hinterland areas populated primarily by
Amerindian communities.'
Donor Programs
CIDA is engaged in a variety of activities targeting Amerindian issues. The most
relevant of its programs in this regard is the Guyana Basic Education Training Project
(CDN$4.5 million), which aims to strengthen the basic education teacher training system
nationwide, including in regions 1, 7, 8 and 9. Also, CIDA is providing CDN$4.5
million under the Guyana Environmental Capacity Development (GENCAPD) Mining
Project to provide capacity strengthening in environmental management in the mining
sector to the EPA and the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission.
There is also some potential for capacity building support to local communities and
NGOs in Guyana through CIDA's regional Indigenous Peoples Partnership Programme,



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                            VII. 14
which was created last year to coordinate all CIDA activities related to indigenous
peoples and will receive up to CDN$10 million in funding over four years from the
Canadian government. The program will work to match the development expertise of
Aboriginal Canadians with the development requirements of indigenous peoples in the
Americas; fund research, workshops and other activities that contribute to the
development of indigenous populations; and facilitate the sharing of indigenous
knowledge among experts and institutions.
DFID/UNICEF. DFID's direct support to Amerindian populations in Guyana has been
primarily through funding the Government of Guyana-UNICEF Amazon Sub-regional
Programme (US$1 million, 1999-2003). The main activities under this program include
institutional strengthening of the Office of the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs and locally
in regions 1 and 9; basic education activities; primary health care activities; water and
sanitation projects; and income generation programs in the two regions.
IDB - SIMAP. As noted above, the IDB has funded SIMAP since 1988 in the amount of
approximately US$50 million. The project is currently in its third phase of funding.
UNDP. UNDP is proposing to support the GoG in elaborating an Area Development
Strategy - a participatory and "bottom up" planning strategy. UNDP believes that this
strategy will be suited more to the hinterlands. UNDP hopes that other donors, including
the World Bank, will make use of this strategy in supporting hinterland programs.
USAID/Carter Center: The Carter Center is primarily working on governance issues in
hinterland areas and is generally targeting its programming to address the concerns of
youth, women and Amerindian populations. During the PRSP consultation process, the
Center was involved in organizing youth consultations, as well as consultations with
Amerindian representatives in regions 8 and 9. The Center is in the process of
developing a capacity building project focusing on Regions 1 and 7 together with the
Guyanese Organization of Indigenous Peoples (GOIP), one of the three Georgetown
based Amerindian NGOs, which the Carter Center together with USAID is supporting to
serve as a national facilitator and NGO counterpart in programming related to
Amerindian affairs.
INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES: MINISTRY OF AMERINDIAN AFFAIRS AND AMERINDIAN NGOs
Ministry of Amerindian Affairs. The Ministry of Amerindian Affairs (MoAA) was
created in 1992 as a junior ministry under the Ministry of Local Government and
Regional Development. In 1996, the ministry was relocated directly under the Office of
the President. Presently, it is in the process of being upgraded to a fully autonomous
ministry.
Until recently, there has generally been a weakness in the institutional arrangements for
addressing the issues of importance to Amerindian peoples. At the central level,
significant problems involved general lack of understanding of Amerindian aspirations
and lack of coordination leading to duplication of efforts. Lack of knowledge about



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                          VII. 15
developments on the ground further hindered the design and implementation of a
consistent strategy for addressing Amerindian needs. In general, the ambiguity and
vagueness in the legal and institutional arrangements regarding the issues of occupancy,
ownership and control of land, specifically, and for the coordination of Amerindian
issues, in general, have proven a significant hurdle.
Furthermore, existing institutional arrangements have created friction between the
Ministry of Amerindian Affairs and the Ministry of Local Government (MoLG). Under
the Local Government Act, the Minister of MoLG (and not the MoAA) has the authority
to regulate the relationship between Amerindian Village Councils and other local
governing entities. Local government resources, including subventions, are until now
channeled via the MoLG, with the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs taking responsibility
for monitoring and follow up. It is widely agreed that the relationship between the
system of Amerindian Councils and the more centralized local government organizations
needs further clarification and reform to increase the autonomy of the Amerindian
villages.
The key role of the fully autonomous MoAA will be to coordinate policies and programs
targeting Amerindian communities and to play an internal advocacy role for Amerindian
issues within the public sector. To this end, the Ministry has hired community
development officers (10 so far), and plans to engage six professional/ technical staff. It
will be divided into five departments: Education and Culture; Health and Welfare;
Housing and Accommodations; Lands; and Special Projects -- each of which will work to
mainstream or focus particular development programs for Amerindian peoples within the
respective ministries. In addition, the Government plans to hire a Permanent Secretary as
the highest ranking civil servant in the Ministry.
Notwithstanding the political will of the GoG in general and the Amerindian affairs
Ministry in particular, the institutional capacity to address Amerindian concerns remains
weak. To improve the situation, the GoG requested support from the Bank in 2001 to
help build the necessary institutional, analytical, outreach and administrative capacities
within the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs. The Bank-IDF-funded Guyana - Capacity
Building in Amerindian Affairs Project (US$276,000) was subsequently approved and
signed in August 2001 to provide assistance to the Ministry for strategy formulation;
preparation of a communications and outreach strategy and skills development;
legislative review; technical assistance to the land demarcation process; and capacity
building and training in skills related to public administration.
IDF funding under the project is being used to assist in the consultative process for
revising the Amerindian Act, and has so far supported the training of 16 representatives
from Amerindian communities in various aspects of the Amerindian Act, international
practices in indigenous legislation, and participatory techniques appropriate for
consulting with Amerindian communities on the law (with German co-financing through
GTZ). On the administrative component, the government has already hired a consultant
who will work with the Ministry over the life of the IDF to build administrative capacity.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                            VII. 16
The Ministry is also engaged in the development of their strategic plan and
communications and outreach strategy under the project.
The Ministry is also in the process of establishing a national database of activities
affecting Amerindians in an effort to improve its coordination with NGOs, government
and donors.
NGOs. There are three Georgetown-based Amerindian NGOs: the Amerindian Peoples
Organization (APA), the Guyanese Organization of Indigenous Peoples (GOIP), and the
Amerindian Action Movement of Guyana (TAAMOG).
The APA is by far the most vocal, best financed and best organized of the three
Amerindian NGOs. Formed in 1992 at a national Amerindian meeting sponsored by the
Guyana Human Rights Association, it is closely linked to the international NGO
community -- most notably, the UK-based Forests Peoples Programme under the World
Rainforest Movement. It is structured on the basis of local units comprised of 10 or more
people in about 52 Amerindian communities. Each unit sends two voting members to a
national conference every two years to elect a 17-member Executive Committee, which
draws its membership from the hinterland region. APA appears to be particularly
influential in Regions 7 and 9. The APA has been instrumental in leading a national and
international movement for greater recognition of Amerindian land and resource use
rights in Guyana. The Program Administrator of APA, Ms. Jean LaRose, also served as
the sole Amerindian representative on the 1999 Constitutional Reform Commission.
GOIP was formed in 1990 out of two prior Amerindian organizations, the National
Amerindian Association (led by a major Amerindian political leader of the 1950s-60s,
Mr. Stephen Campbell) and the Association of Concerned Amerindians (a small
organization identified with the national PPP party). GOIP is currently working closely
with the Carter Center and USAID and could emerge to assume a much more prominent
national role in the future.
TAAMOG is a small splinter organization formed when its founder (Mr. Peter Persaud)
left GOEP in the 1990s. It appears to be much less institutionalized and influential than
the other two organizations.
In addition to the three Amerindian NGOs, there are other organizations (North Rupununi
District Development Board, South Central Development Association, Amerindian
Touchaus Area Council) working with the MoAA.
Primary NGO focus has been on the recognition and protection of land and resource use
rights, as well as Amerindian rights to represent themselves in all decisions that affect
them. With APA in the forefront, NGO efforts have focused on consciousness-raising
within Amerindian communities about their rights and means of redress for any
grievances; lobbying for changes in laws and policies affecting Amerindians; carrying
out workshops in the communities on human rights, environmental education and natural



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VII                            VU. 17
resource management; participatory mapping projects to help Amerindians clarify land
use systems and land claims; and legal assistance in the two suits brought by
communities in the Upper Mazaruni and Region 8 (Chenapau) against the government
(both of which are pending).



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VIm                            vIm. l
ANNEX VIII
SUMMARY OF COUNTRY FINANCIAL ACCOUNTIBILITY ASSESSMENT
(CFAA) REPORT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Summary of Observations
I1.   The principal findings of this CFAA are:
* The country's public financial management systems and processes are basic and
fragmented. As a result, many decisions with substantive financial implications
follow from the exercise of discretion by senior officials at the top of the
government and in important Agencies.
* The best developed of the government's financial management systems relate to
budget preparation. Efforts were made to develop the recurrent budget based on
programs. In 2002, the capital budget was still presented according to line items;
however, by 2003, the government expects to unify the preparation and
presentation of the two, and present to parliament a unified program budget.
Even so, there remain systemic issues related to the budget. The budget needs to
be presented and approved before the beginning of the fiscal year. This point is
dealt with in greater detail in the PER. Also, the systems for monitoring
compliance with the budget are basic and fragmented, which limits the use of the
budget as an instrument of economic discipline.
* The government accounting system in place - the vote book system - is an
archaic throwback to British colonial times. It is used to track government
accounts in the aggregate, it is not used as a management tool by individual
ministries. There is a myriad of off-budget agencies that do not maintain their
accounts using the vote book system. There have been donor financed attempts to
replace the vote book system with an automated, modern approach; however,
those efforts have been frustrated, in part because they lacked ownership of the
Accountant General's Department. CIDA has supported the development of an
Automated Vote Book (AVB) system, and its implementation is a high priority of
the CIDA financed Guyana Economic Management Program.
*  Given that there is no real integration between the budget and accounting systems,
and no uniform government wide approach to financial management, the internal
control systems in place are the tailored creations of each agency. They are not
adaptable for widespread use, and they are not useful for centralized oversight.
* The Office of the Auditor General (OAG) has demonstrated genuine
professionalism and a refreshing independence; in OAG's reports, problems are
clearly identified and candidly discussed. Till now, the resources available to
OAG have been insufficient to enable completion of high quality work on time.
The constitutional amendment of 2001 will increase the independence of OAG;
and, the actions needed to make that amendment operational are covered by
conditionality related to the PRSC.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VIJI                           VI. 2
*  The Parliament does not exercise effectively its constitutional role to oversee
public sector management. While the Parliament has not made adjustments to line
items within the budget; and, while the Public Accounts Committee does discuss
the Auditor General's Annual Reports, there is no discernible follow-up to those
discussions. Ineffective parliamentary oversight results from the weakness of the
legislative branch relative to the executive, which is a direct result of the process
for electing the president and members of Parliament. In other part, the
Parliament's own rules and practices do not foster debate on public
accountability.
*  In the absence of integrated systems, respect for operating rules, a functioning
public oversight mechanism, and a recognized medium for enforcement, many
political leaders exercise considerable discretion in running their agencies. Even
assuming that this exercise of discretion results in wise decisions, there is a
perception that it is difficult to do business in Guyana. The difficulties are related
to: (i) paying taxes; (ii) clearing goods through customs, (iii) buying public land,
(iv) obtaining and renewing licenses, and (iv) public procurement. In these areas,
the systems and processes in place are not perceived to be functioning
transparently; and the government is seen not to be predictable or equitable in
following its own rules.
*  These findings, taken together with the Bank's unfortunate experience under the
IRP justify a high country risk rating. This assessment of the risk to IDA Group
funds is supported by multiple citations in OAG's Annual Report for 1999, which
reported numerous and repeated financial irregularities throughout the breadth of
the government; significantly, the Agencies of the Executive Branch either
ignored or responded perfunctorily to questions raised in their audits. This high
country risk rating is deemed appropriate, given that the PRSC will be lent to the
government for budgetary support.
2.    Donors, especially CIDA and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), have
provided substantial support for modernizing the government's financial management
systems. While IDB and CIDA have indicated their intention to continue supporting
these activities, the underlying issues are not systemic in nature. Indeed, substantive
improvement in the business climate requires a clearly manifest political will for the
government to be seen as a transparent participant in and the equitable regulator of the
Guyanese economy. Consequently, the CFAA's recommendations consist of two parts:
(i) the first is a set of general principles of reform, to be agreed in connection with the
PRSC, aimed at depoliticizing decision-making, enhancing debate about the allocation of
public resources, improving oversight of public financial management, and increasing the
accountability of public officials; and (ii) the second is a program of specific actions to
upgrade the systems and processes for public sector financial management.
General Principles of Reform for Agreement under the PRSC
3.    Any substantive improvement in public sector financial management depends on
the Government of Guyana making a strong commitment to reform in four areas that
came into focus in the course of the CFAA.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex vm                              vm. 3
1) Improved Oversight of Public Financial Management
2) Curtailment of Discretionary Powers of Public Officials
3) Disclosure of Public Officials' Personal Assets
4) Independence of the Auditor General's Office.
4.    In connection with the first phase of the PRSC, the government would be asked
for its agreement that (i) substantive reform will be undertaken in each of these areas, (ii)
each area of reform would comprise the general principles set out in the following
paragraphs, and (iii) the government will identify specific measures for implementing
these reforms, with support from consultants as needed, within nine months. The
government's agreement to an acceptable set of time bound actions to operationalize
these reforms will be a condition of the second phase of the PRSC.
5.    Improved Oversight of Public Financial Management. The government needs
to establish a credible Oversight Commission for its public sector financial management
practices. Logically, this function should be vested in the Economic Affairs Committee
of the parliament, which already has a constitutional basis for serving as a check and
balance on the executive branch. The principal objective of this Commission is to
establish a consultative medium for discussing and resolving budgetary, accountability
and governance issues. In connection with the first PRSC, the government will be asked
to agree to the principle of establishing a public oversight commission that performs this
role effectively. If the government chooses to locate this public oversight function in the
Economic Affairs Committee, it will be asked to establish the rules, procedures and
operational policies needed to enable that committee to perform its oversight role
effectively as a condition of the second PRSC.
6.    Curtailment of Discretionary Powers of Public Officials. The unchecked use
of discretionary powers by public officials invites the appearance of impropriety and
inequity, even if the discretionary decisions are wise. In certain line agencies of the
Ministry of Finance, including the Bureau of Inland Revenue and the Bureau of Customs,
it is necessary to introduce processes to decide on waivers and remissions and to
adjudicate disputes, where the recommendations of decision-makers can be endorsed by
other responsible officials. In other off-line agencies, such as the Commissions on
Natural Resources, National Frequency Unit, Guyana Energy Agency, and the
Privatization Unit, it is necessary that governance and policy oversight systems be made
to work. Boards of Directors need to meet regularly, review budgets before they are
adopted and financial results on a regular basis, review and endorse operating decisions
of agency leaders, and review audit reports independently of the agency's operating
leadership.  Such measures would curtail the excessive use of discretion, but not
eliminate discretionary powers entirely. As a condition of the first phase of the PRSC,
the government should be asked to agree to the principle that discretionary powers will be
curtailed in its main revenue producing agencies. In advance of the second phase of the
PRSC, the Government should develop transparent and neutral processes for making
decisions in areas currently within the discretion of a few people acting individually.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex vm                             VIm. 4
7.    Disclosure of Public Officials' Personal Assets. The Government of Guyana
has a statutory requirement under the Integrity Act that all parliamentarians and other
public officials appointed to policy making positions and/or have discretionary authority
vested in them must file annual disclosure forms with the Integrity Commission. The
Integrity Commission is composed of three people who leaders of Guyana's three main
religions (Christianity, Hinduism and Islam); as such, they command considerable moral
authority. However, the Integrity Commission is served by a small group of support staff
and extremely modest budgetary resources. So, it lacks the capacity to analyze the
disclosure statements that have been filed, and does not disseminate individual or
aggregate findings. As a condition of the first PRSC, the government should be asked for
its commitment to strengthen its system of public disclosure. As a condition of the
second PRSC, the government should define the rules and procedures it will follow to
analyze, verify and disseminate the findings of the disclosure process. At least, the
Integrity Commission should receive analytical support from OAG, who should also
retain the disclosure records.
8.    Independence of the Office of the Auditor General.  The constitutional
amendment passed in 2001 calls for the independent operation of OAG by repositioning
to report to the Public Accounts Committee of the Parliament. Operationalization
involves four actions:
* Adoption of a new Audit Law.
* Adoption of a new Manual of Procedures.
* Adoption of a new Organizational Establishment.
* Adoption of a Reorganization Plan for OAG.
These actions should be completed as a condition of the first phase of the PRSC.
Systemic Recommendations
9.    The following enumerates recommendations that address systemic issues related
to the public sector's financial management systems and processes. This listing is
followed by an action plan that is presented in matrix form in chapter 4 of the main
report. This set of recommendations includes:
Budget Process
1) Approve the budget on time, before the beginning of the government's fiscal year;
2) Ensure that the government submits a program-based budget for 2003, where the
capital and recurrent budgets are fully integrated; and
3) Review the Program Budget presentation prior to introducting the IFMIS, and
ensure that the accounting and audit mechanisms are fully aligned.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VmII                           VII. 5
Accountant General's Department
1) Immediately begin an operations review of the Accountant General's Department
(AGD). This review should lead to the development of a plan for reorganizing
the AGD;
2) Fully implement the Automated Vote Book;
3) Upgrade the capacity of AGD personnel to work- in an automated environment,
with a view towards introducing an Integrated Financial and Management
Information System in 2003;
4) Enact a new set of Financial Administration laws, as needed to align the
governing legislation with the requirements of this modernization program; and
5) Set a deadline for the government to switch all of its operations from manual to
computerized accounting.
Legislative Review of the Budget and Annual Audits
1) Disseminate widely the proceedings of parliament's debate on budget policy;
2) Enable parliamentarians to introduce amendments to the budget in the course of
the debate on budget policy;
3) Legislate a requirement for management response and remedial action plan to the
findings; and
4) Disseminate widely the proceedings of the Public Accounts Committee;
Action Plan
10.   A complete Action Plan is presented in matrix form in chapter 4 of the main
CFAA report. This plan is expected to cost about US$5.1 million, of which:
* CIDA would finance about US$3.7 million to support Phase 3 of the Guyana
Economic Management Project;
* IDB would finance about US$0.3 million in technical assistance to support the
expansion of OAG;
* CARTAC would finance about US$0.1 million in assistance related to the
drafting of the new Financial Administration laws;
* IDA would finance about $0.4 million through the proposed Guyana Technical
Assistance Credit; and
* Financing of about $0.6 million remains to be identified



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex vm                                                VEm. 6
LETrER FROM GOVERNMENT ENDORSING CFAA WoRK PROGRAM
MRY-13-U2    1z:45 FPM   UFF1 LL    UF  I tt rKftbhJI s                                -. 
May 10, 2002
Ms. Orsalia Kulantzopoulos
Country Director
Latin America and Caribbn Region
The World Bank
Washington, V(' 20433
Dear Ms. Knlantvopoulos:
Ihe govermcnt has conducted a careful review of thi CFAA study that was
undcrakJen by World Bank staffas part rits preparation of the Poverty Rcduction
Support Credit. Whilc the government feels the report did not adequately capture the rtll
extent orpast progress in restoring rtancial accountability, we agree that rurther
improvements in public sector financial management should be undertaken in following
four areas:
I. Improved Ovcrsight of Public F:inaneial Management
2. Curtailment of Discretionary Powers of Public Officials
3. Discwlsure of Public Ollicials' Personal Assets
4. Independence of the Auditor General's Oflice.
In connection with the rirst phase of the PRSC, the governmcnt hereby agrees that
(i) substantive rceomm progrmme will be developed in each of these arcas, (ii) each area
of reform would comprise the general principics set out in the following paragraphs, and
(iii) the government will idcntify specific meiasures for implementing thes nreorms with
support from consultants as needed, within nine moonths. The government further agrees
that it will implement a mutually acceptabie set of time bound actions to operationalize
these reforms, in advance of the second phase of the PRSC.
Improved Oversight of Public Financial Management. The govemment agrees to
empower the l:arliamcntary Sectoral Committee on Economic Services (PSCES) to
oversee the public sector's financial managenent practices. In that context, the
government will sustain the elliuts of the colimiute's secretatiat to develop thc capacity
needed to conduct dte ILchnical and analytical lunctions In support of PSCES's oversight
responsibility. The principal objective of PTSFs oversight function would be to
csblish a consultative medium for discussing and resolving budgetary, accountability
and governance issues related to financial management. In addition to providing
analytical support, the secretariat would assist dw committee with the administmtion of



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex vm                                        VIII. 7
Y-13-82 12:43 PMi      OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT          63395
the oversight function and implemcntation of the processes related to that fiunction. The
gencral principles to be followed in estahlishing thc ovcrsight function include:
*  Establishing Iransparcrt and cquitablc mlcs and rcgulations to govern
PSCES's procecdings;
*  Eisurc the participation of the private sector and civil socicty in PSCES
procecdings;
*  Ensure public disclosure of all proceedings;
*  Ensure that funiding for the ovcrsight finction is adequate to enable a hish
standard of professional activity; and
  Provide funding for the eilective operation of PSCLS.
We hercby ask the Bank to include a provision in the Tcchnical Assistance Credit
(TAC) to finance thc technical assistance needed to enable the Economic Services
Comnnittee and its Sccretariat to perform the public oversight function effectively,
including the establishment of rules and regulations governing its operations.
Curtailment *r Discretionary Powcr of Public Ofricials. We are aware Or thc
allegalion of excessive use of discretion by public officials within the Government. Such
alleplions raise concerns aboul luck of transparcncy and ineqiity, even if all the
seemingly discretionary decisions are wisc. Thc govcrnment hereby agrees to undertakec
an independent review of the level or discretionary powers that exist in the following
agencies:
*  Inland Revenue Departnent
*  Burcau of Customs
*  National lFrequency Management Unit
* Commission on Natural Resources
* Guyana Energy Agency
* Privatization I Jnit
At the Inland Revenuc Department and the BLircatu of Customs, it is ncecssary to
have transparent processcs to decide on waivers and rcmission.s and to adjudicatc
disputes. In the other, it is neccssary that embedded governance and policy ovcrsight
systems be madc to work i.e.. Boards of Directors should meet regularly, rcview
budgets bxforc they aye adopted and financial results on a regular basis, rcview and
endorse operating decisions of agcncy leaders, and rcview audit reports independent of
the agency's opcrating leadership. Meastues of this sort would curtail any abusc of the
usC of discretion, but not eliminatc the appropriate use of discretionary powcrs.
In advanc¢ of the second phase or the PRSC, and on the basis of the indcpendcnt
cvaluation, the govcrnment will adopt a program to reduce any abuse of discretionary
powers. We hcreby ask the IDank1 to includc a provision in tbe TAC to finance techniical
assistanec to cnable a comprcleensive review of thc systems and processes in use in the
aforementioned agencies.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VIm                                           VmI. 8
MAY-13-82 12:44 PM       OFFICE OF THE PRES1UENT         63395                       P.83
I)hclosure of Public Offcials' PenSonal Assets. The Government of Guyana
has enucted a law that requires all public oflicials who are appointed to policy making
positions and/or have discretionary authority vcstcd in them to file disclosure forms.
Currcntly, thesc disclosures are filcd with the !ntcgrity Commission (IC). Ilowever, the
Integrity Commission is supported by a small staff aad an extremely modest budget; so, it
lacks the capacity to analyze the disclostire statcmcnts that have been filed, and does not
disseminate individual or aggregate findings. Thc governmrent is commined to
strengthening its systcm of public disclosure, monitoring and enforcemcnt of non-filers
and false-filers. Thc government agrecs to the principle that the personal assets of public
officials should be disclosed publicly and will seek to arrivc at a consensus with the
political opposition and other parties to make that happcn. The govemnient will
strcngthen the Integrity Commission and supplement iLS capacity by having the Ofiice of
the Auditor General provide technical, analytical and enforcemcnt support. In advancc of
the second PRSC, the govemz eiit will define thc rules and procedurcs it will follow to
analyzc, verify and disseminate the findings of the disclosure process. Implementation of
an appropriate disclosure policy will reflect the following general principles:
1.    The policy should cover all incumbents in and nominees for high ofrice,
and their immediate family,
2.    Filings should be made once a year;
3.    Filings should disclose all cash and non-cash assets and liabilities;
4.    Tax retums should bo filed with the disclosure fiorns evcry year;
5.    Filings should bc made availablc to the public after arriving at consensus
with the political opposition and other parties;
6.    The Ititegrity Commission should continue pWblishing at least once a year
a list of officials subject t) this disclosure po)icy wvho have not complied
with it; and
7.    Filings should be requiTrd ror a period or time aftRr an ofricial subject to
this disclosure policy leaves public service.
We hereby askl the Bank to includc a provision in the TAC to finance technical
assistance to help develop the necessary technical capacity within the Integrity
Commlission, its staff and OAG.
Independence of the OMce of the Auditor General. A recent constitutional
amendment enactcd calls for the independent opcration of thc Office or the Auditor
General. The amendmeent repositions OAC' so that it reports to the Public Accounts
Committcc of the Parliament. Operationulizing that amendment involves four actions:.
* Adoption of a new Audit Law.
* AdoptIon oJ a new Manual o Pro cedures.
* Adtoption of a new Organizational EsablAi.ihent.
* Adipltion of a Reorganiizutiion 'lanfrr GAG.
With the help of lD> financed consultants, the new law and Manual or Procedures arc
being drafted, and the ncw law will set out OAG's new establishment The govennricnt



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex VIH                              VIm. 9
?-      1 212WN P'PF OFflW 13F CWTME PWiSijN k? t4,
be a~ that bkF ihli bt cQrr4t*d, M    Rn     Aut%hly mo4t. alS
a-   * se h,.Di e ftaue#r Attb :sl.,                  I
W, inwti Ii Wq-p,t *wst .c6us+1ey$ byG Psuw*w ?GO& (W¶
ft*qjWW n:view iT fri # Th'tIoP  4  lt1 -it
jctejtsd1 ZAME (iI~ 3wB  i*$o~uuaf hi srnaes u  h 4vuilt# vIc piog&n to b
,eatiftW           ftTo fth'i



I



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex IX                                                                                             IX. 1
GUYANA
COUNTRY PROCUREMENT ASSESSMENT
Plan of Action to Improve the Procurement System in Guyana
ConIIplewion  Responsible
SDecific ssue                          Recommended Acton                                             Dhite       Agency            2 Commentg
1) Legal and regulatory framework do not  a) Tabling to Parliament of Amended Procurement Act, taking  Dec 15, 02  MOF
contain essential aspects for a transparent  into consideration agreements reached with the World Bank
and efficient procurement system.  in July 2002 and recommendations from public consultation
and efficient procurement system.
Existing legislation requires        b) Enact the Amended Procurement Act 2000.                 Dec 31, 02   Parliament
improvement.
c) Appointment of the members of the Public Procurement    June 30, 03    National   While the Government can
Commission (PPC) i and establishment of its Secretariat.             Assembly    help to expedite execution of
this action, it is outside of its
control.
d) Passing of enabling legislation for the functioning of the  June 30, 03  Parliament
PPC.2
2) Weak and inefficient organizational  a) Creation of the National Procurement Administration Board  June 28, 02
procurement structure of the Central    (NPAB).
Tenders Board.                       b) Appointment of the members of the NPAB.                 June 1 03     President   Depends on having consent of
)t A)                   2/3 of members of Parliament
The Public Procurement Commission was created by an Amendment to the Constitution in June 2001. This was not part of the Action Plan, under the Bank's
Country Procurement Assessment Report agreed with the Government in June 1999.
2 Legal clarification is being sought as to whether the enabling legislation is required for the PPC to become operational



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex IX                                                                                            IX.2
Completion    Responsible
nSifi J!                               Reeommended Action                                  -       pate         Agency            Comnients
3) Weak and inefficient organizational  a) Establishment of the NPAB Secretariat (NPABS) and   August 30, 02     MOF
structure and administrative            appointment of required staff.
arrangements of the Secretariat of the
Central Tenders Board.              b) Preparation by the NPABS of detailed regulations for new  April 03    NPABS       Regulations will be prepared
procurement bill.                                                    NAS         with assistance of consultants;
can be financed with PSTAC
c) Approval of above regulations.                       June 30, 03       MOF
d) Dissemination of new law and Regulations (workshops and  August, 03    PPC
seminars).
d) Preparation of new administrative tools to discharge the  July, 2003   PPC
NPAB's new responsibilities. These are, inter alia,: internal                     Work to be carried out with
administrative rules; standard bidding documents; pre-                             assistance c  outants
qualification, evaluation, and contract forms; procurement           NPABS         assistance of consultants
manuals, guidelines and procedures; and flow charts and
time schedules for all procurement methods.
e) Design and start implementation of a management       Dec 31, 03
information system for the NPABS's Operations.                                    Work to be carried out with
f) New procurement law becomes operational. All public   July 1, 03      NPABS         assistance of consultants
entities apply same law and regulations.
g) Use of Standard Bidding Documents is enforced.        July 1, 03      NPABS
h) Preparation of a training and dissemination program on new  June 1, 03
administrative tools (see d above).                                                 Work to be done with
f) Start implementation of above training and dissemination  July 1, 03  NPABS        assistance of consultants
program
NPABS



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex IX                                                                                             X.3
Completion    Responsible
Specific Issie                         Recommended Action                                           Date        Agency            Comments
4. Procurement profession not recognized  a) Prepare a two year training program for procurement  August, 03    NPABS      World Bank may assist in this
as such. Project Executing Units are    professionals at national and regional levels.                                  task
weak in procurement and training in
this area is very limited.
b) Implement above training program.                     August, 05      NPABS      Can be financed under
PSTAC
5. Information to the public on
procurement matters is almost non-     a) Design and preparation of technical specifications (including  July, 03          Consultant work should
existent, increasing public perception of  cost estimates) for an electronic computer                                      include an assessment on
corruption.                                software/hardware package for implementation in the short                       whether action 5 a) (ii) is
and medium term of the following activities:                                    convenient for Guyana and
explore alternative options.
(i) Information to public on procurement law and       Dec 1, 03     NPABS
regulations, results of public biddings (dates, names and
amount of awarded contracts), and on future bidding
opportunities.
(ii) Electronic purchase by a Central Government authority  July 30, 04  NPABS  On the light of the consultants
(could be the NPAB) of standard and common equipment                            recommendations the GOG
and materials used by all public institutions, such as                          will decide on this Action.
stationery, printers, and others.
Jvjadrijevic/NHickslEdeLaurentiis
Nov 20, 2002






Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex X                               X. I
ANNEX X
DETAILS OF DONOR PROGRANIS
PRSP Objective     ONGOING                                  PROPOSED
Macroeconomic      IDA                                      EU
Framework and Job-  1. Financial and Private Sector         1. Public Sector Credit
Generatinig Economic 2. GUYSUCO project                     Business Forum
Growth (Private Sector 3. Pension payroll computerized?     IDA
Development)       4. Banking supervision institutional     2. PRSC
strengthening (FPS Project?)            3. TAC
5. Supportfor manufacturing? (see PRSP)  CDB
FAD                                     4. GUYSUCO capital.
6. Rural Support project??               works
TDB.
7. Microenterprise Training Programme
8. Technical & Middle Mgt. Training ('01)
9. Multi-Sectorial Pre-Investment Programme
10. Agricultural sector support program and
hybrid loan,
11. Banking supervision institutional
strenghtening?
IMF
12. Tax administration support?
UNDP
13. Microcredit Schemes
14. Microenterprise Development
15. EMPRETEC
16. MOFA Implementation Unit
17. National Human Development Report
18. Poverty Eradication Rupunni
19. National Capacity
20. Private Sector led growth program support
to GOINVEST, Microcredit with Institute for
[Private Enterprise Development (IPED)



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex X                                 X. 2
PRSP Objective      ONGOING                                  PROPOSED
Private Sector     IICA                                      CIDA
Development (cont'd) 21. Rural Marketing.Development:     .  1. Extend Business
CIDA, ~'.. .^^'',.'.: . -, :.  :., ;;.. ., Advisory Program,
22. Business Advisory Program nPhase I[
23. -Pr. Sector.Comm. Cap. Dev. ProJect --  2. Extend Economic
24. Guyana Training Voucher Program.., : Management Program,.
5. Guyana Econormc ManagementProgramme Phase DI.
DPID                                     3. Enterprise
26.: Private Sector Commission           Development
7 Privatization Phases 3 and. 4'
EU
28. Private Sector Credit [includes: .Support;
SBC1,; Guyana Training Agency, Linden
Economic Development; IPED (E1IB)]
T9. rangfers in.the context of the' SASP:'
Structur.al Adjustment,
USAID
30. Expanded Economic Opportunites for the
Urban and Rural Poor
Stronger Institutions  UNDP                                .   A
and Better Governance 1. Public Sector Capacity (Ministry of Foregin  1. PRSC
Trade)-and Good Governance Program     : 2. TAC
(parliamentary reform)                    IDB
2. Support to Elections Cominmission     3. Public Sector
3. Assistance: to Elections Commission    Modernization (TC
IDB   .                                   Urban Municipal
4. Internal Audit - Ministry of Public Works  P roject)
5. Sulpportfor Land Reform  :     .       CIDA
6. Multisectoral program (see IDB's 2001   . Guyana Local'
Operational Program) - used to draft  .   Government .
Procurement Law  :              .         Strengthening Project
7; Design of Public Sector Modernization -  5. Guyana Econ. Mgmt.
Program    -                 '            Prog. Il.
CIDA   ,. 
8.,Elections;/GECOM Support               6. Public Sector
9. ''Guyana Econ. Mgmt. Prog. II      '   Reform
DFID
10. Elections ('01)
11. Public Sector Reform
12. Police Project ('01)
USAID
13. More Responsive and Participatory
Governance and Rule of Law



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex X                                  X. 3
PRSP Objective      ONGOING                                   PROPOSED
EU
14. Support general elections (01) 
BOP                 EU
1. Transfers in th'e context of the SASP:
Structural Adjustment
IDB
2.'_Air Transport Sector Programme'
1\F
_____________  3. ESAFIPRGF                  ._    ...    _  _



GuyanaZ PRSC Program Document - Annex X                                X. 4
PRSP Objective      ONGOING                                   PROPOSED
Educatio                                                      CDB,,
1. Secondary Education Project (Red Book says 1.l Technical and
is PriayrEd.)  .       .ocational Training
CDB                                     'CIDA
2. Technical Vocational Institute         2 Early'.Childhood
B                                       Education. (wl UNICEF)
3. Primary Education Improvement Project  IDA    i
4. Basic Education and Access Management  3. PRSC;
S.pport program (BEAMS)
UNESCOD.. ,                                    :. 
5 Stimulus Material for the Teaching of
Geography
UNICEF
6. ECCSGD Cncludes: Day care; Parenting.
education; Child friendly / transition; Health and
family life education; transition; education and
life skills)
CIDA
7. 13asic Education Teacher Training
8. GEAP Technical Cooperation
9. GEAP Financial Aid
10. Education Field Manager
11. lEducation'Strategic Planning.
Healtl              UNAIDS                                    CIDA
1. UNAIDS Program                         1. Health'Information
.   PCP                                 and STI Management
Supporton drug procurement              Project
UNFPA      .                              IDA
3. Adolescent Sexual Health (ASH) program  2. PRSC
UNICEF                                    3. Multi-Country
4 Malaria.                               HIV/AIDS Prevention
IDB                                       and Control Adaptable
5. Health Sector consolidation and development Program Lending (APL)
program ('01),
6. Nutritional program
USAID
7. ,To improve HIV/AIDS Awareness,
Knowledge and Applied Prevention Strategies



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex X                                     X. 5
PRSP Objective       ONGOING                                     PROPOSED
Water anid Sanitation  1A-.-
1. iWater Supply Technical-Assistance/Rehab
CDB '
2 .W,tet Supply Technical Assistan'e IRehab,
DB.
3. Solid Waste project
4 Georgetown Sewerage and Water''
Maintenance Program II
5. Urban Development Project?
6. E,ast Demerara Water conservancy,
7 Georgetown Remedial and Sewerage-project
8. Water Sector Studies for GUYWA (      t      *    .    -
9 Financial aid for GUYWASP-
10. Technical cooperation for GUYWASP
EU
11. New,Amsterdam-
12. Pouderoyen
13.  RoseHall       -_.         -__:___.___.;                    _



Guyalna PRSC Program Document - Annex X                                   X. 6
PRSP Objective       ONGOING                                    PROPOSED
Roads, Ports, Housing IDA                        .              EU
and Sea Defenses     L .Essequibo Coast Road (see PRSP)         1. Low-income
CDB    ,;:.-..-:                             ousing;      ,.:,.
2. West Coast Berbice (Sea Defiense),      CDB    .
3. Four lane harbor bridge 1Ge,orgetown Road 2. West Coast,
(not in Red 'Book)      °                    emerara,Rd..
4 West Demerara Highway (not in Red Book)    provement and'.-''.
5 Soesdyke  Linden Highway ('01)     '    Maintenance
6. Seco,ndary infrastructure ? (not in Red.Book) 3. Sec ndary Towns.
IDB                                        lnfrastructuTre-
7. Low',income housing 'settlement and squatter'
upgrade -
8. Unreserved Area Electrification Program.''
9. Infoma,tion Communication Technology_
10. Rehabilitation of Mahaica-Rosignol Road
11. Georgetowta / Soesdyke IRosignol R,oa.d
12. Moder,nization of telecommunications  :
13. Georgetown/Timehri bypass          -
14. Corentyne & Essequibo (sea defense)
UNDP
15. Squatter Regularization
DFID ..    .,   :,         .    :.     :  .  . '.,; .. :
16. Squatter Settle,ments
EU
17. Demerara Harbor Bridge,
18. Sea Defenses
Energy              IDB                                         EU
1'.: Execution Electricity Sector           1. Loan to GPL (EEB -
.________________  -_________ .pending)
Safety Nets/Social   CDB                                        IDB
Funds and Special    1. Basic Needs Trust Fund                  1. SIMAP III
Projects             IDB                                        IDA
_2. SIMAPII              '12. TAC



Guyanai PRSC Program Document - Annex X                                 X. 7
PRSP Objective      ONGOING                                   PROPOSED
Environmlent       ADA:                                       IDA                w
1. El in proj'ec`t-,,,                    1PRSC
DB,
Georgetowvn. Disposal Site Environment
lrnprovement-,
3,:Edvi.vDronnmental Mainageme.ii  
4r Epvironmental'lipnr6ement of Georgetown'
UNDP'
5. Enhbling Guyana's resp.onse to GEF
jssistahce to Iwokrama:
6 Enabling Activities urnder the,UNBDC-
7.,i:Envi,ronme-ntal Education and Awiareness,  ,
8. PRQORm
9. Coastal Zone Area Development
10.l GEF, Project t  -;;   ..                     .'.  -
A0Ho/wHo' -'.-." -';f'1:'';, .............-;:
11. Environmental Health'
CIDA ,
1 2'. Guyana Environ'ment. Capacity Development  -
P.roject.
13. Tropical Forest-Protection Project'-(co-
financed w/WB -and EU).
14. Improved Managemnent'of,:Natiral Resource.
(Technical coop.), 
15.. .Technical'Cooperation - For,esty . .
16.' .Fin'ancial Aid - Forestry
17. Technical cooperatioi - land-
18. 'Financial Aid '-land
Environment (con t'd) USAID  :                 -
19. Biodiversity Planning and JIplementation
Prograin
EU   ',   -i .  ; +      . ;  , -    ,-                 ;
20. Projects include: Iwokrama(in conjunction
with CIDA,'UNDP; IRDC); Tropenhos'
21. Environimental Management ('01)
22. EPA Institutional Support ('01)



Guyanla PRSC Program Document - Annex X                                X. 8
PRSP Objective      ONGOING                                  PROPOSED
Agriclultutre       IDB                   .DB
L Agricultural Sector Hybrid Loan ('01') .'l. -  ", Agncultural Support
9nq.              an:       S~~~~~~~ervice,s
2. Agricultural Sector Programme (CLo'.
3. -Agricultural Sector lPro,gra,mmne (Grant) ('01) CDB'''. ..';  2i
4. Strategic Planning for Rice Mndustry'('01)  . .-Sugar Sectir
LD3                                      Modernization
Small Farmers Education (FAO),,
HCA
6. Strengthening Rural Development
7. Carambola Fruit Fly
8. Agriculure Health
Organic Cocoa              -
10. Coffee
1 1. Infornation Systems Development
12. Niche Market Development.
CDB
13. Poor Rural Communities Support
14. Drai,nage and Irrigation  -_''"__'_........
Other               UNESCO                                   CDB
1. Culture (includes: Archival specialist;  1. Basic Needs Trust
Preservation and revitalization of comimunity art Fund,",,,...
orns; The Wonderful World of the INational ArAt  Number- of-Small
Gallery- of Guyana; Workshop on. Management  Technical Assistance
of Natural Sites; Consultants - heritage sites;  Projects (USD 3
Prornoting a culture of peace and harmony in  million)
comnunities through ASP Schools and
UNESCO clubs; African ethnic,influence on
classical mnusic in Guyana)
2.'Communication (includes: EPDC equipment;
Media conference; Community broadcasting
radio; Rural TV, Project; Equipment for the
Amerindian Hinterland Highlights Project)
3. Travel and Subsistence (for UNESCO
Meetings)
UNV
4."Fully funded program officer:-
5. Administrative Assitant
UNICEF
6. Social Policy & Advocacy (includes: ,
Advocacy and Social Mobilization;
Strengthening Social Statistics; Participation to
Advance Children's and ...?)
7. Local System for Integrated Child Protection
(includes: Integrated Service Delivery; Support



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex X                                 X. 9
PRSP Objective      ONGOING                                  PROPOSED
too Families and Children at Risk)
Other (con td)      CIDA
8. Canada (Small Project) Flund
9. Special Program/Project Expenses
10. Program Support Unit
11. Human Resource Dev. for Economic
Competitiveness
12. Building Conununity Capacity Project
(Hum. Assist.)
KfW
13. Establishment of a comrnmunity library in
Ituni (Micro Project)
DFID
14. UNICEF Amazon Project ('01)
15. Poverty Reduction Strategy
16. World Bank Coordinator
17. Administration - Dvpt Section
18. Access to Justice (Police Reform)
USAID
19. Commodities Import Program (PL 480 Title
I)
EU
20. Regional Projects (mainly)
_ DB



Guyana PRSC Program Documient - Annex X                              X. 10
PRSP Objective     ONGOING                                  PROPOSED
211. Action Plan C & D Countries COI)
2. Strengthening System of Property Rights
23. Multi-sectorial Plre-]nvestment IProgramme
('01)
Monitoring and     UNP
Evaluation          1. Support to Bureau of Statstics (census)
IDB
2. Support on PRSP indicators and progress
reports ? (see PRSP)
Debt Relief        EU
1. HIPC Debt Relief
IDA
2. Original H-DCPO
3. Enhanced HIPC
. Original HIPC
5. Enhanced HUPC
DFED
6. Debt Relief International
IDB
7. Nominal Principal Sum - Original HIPC



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex XI                             XI. I
ANNEX XI
FUND RELATIONS NOTE
International Monetary Fund
700 19th Street, NW
Washington, D. C. 20431 USA
Press Release No. 02/42
September 13, 2002
IMF Approves a Three Year PRGF Credit for Guyana
The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has approved a three-
year credit under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) for an amount
equivalent to SDR 54.55 million (US$73 million) for Guyana. The Executive Board
determined that Guyana's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) provides a sound
basis for Fund concessional financial assistance. As a result, Guyana will be able to draw
immediately up to SDR 5.55 million (about US$7.3 million) from the credit.
The Executive Board also approved additional interim assistance for Guyana under the
enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiative (HIPC) of SDR 4.13 million (about
US$5.4 million) to help Guyana meet its debt service payments on its existing debt to the
IMF.
The PRGF is the IMF's concessional facility for low income countries. It is intended that
PRGF-supported programs will in time be based on country-owned poverty reduction
strategies adopted in a participatory process involving civil society and development
partners, and articulated in a PRSP. This is to ensure that each PRGF-supported program
is consistent with a comprehensive framework for macroeconomic, structural, and social
policies to foster growth and reduce poverty. PRGF loans carry an annual interest rate of
0.5 percent and are repayable over 10 years with a 5 l/2-year grace period on principal
payments.
Following the Executive Board's discussion on Guyana, Eduardo Aninat, Deputy
Managing Director and Acting Chairman, said:
"The authorities are to be commended for completing a comprehensive Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) that was prepared through a participation process
involving civil society and the donor community. The PRSP lays out Guyana's poverty-
reduction strategy, and provides a good basis for guiding current and future
macroeconomic programs. The authorities are encouraged to use the PRSP as a vehicle
for enhanced dialogue between officials and civil society in order to build and strengthen
the broad consensus on reforms that will be needed going forward. The completion of the



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex XI                              XI. 2
PRSP fulfils one of the prerequisites of the completion point under the enhanced HIPC
Initiative, which with satisfactory progress should be expected to be reached next year.
"The three-year program being supported under the PRGF is based on the PRSP. The
program's objectives are to speed up output and employment growth in an environment of
macroeconomic stability, and to reduce poverty on a sustainable basis. To achieve these
goals, the program includes a mix of sound fiscal, monetary, and incomes policies,
combined with structural reforms, governance strengthening measures, and social
programs.
"The policy agenda under the authorities' program is ambitious, and will need to be
implemented with determination in order to achieve Guyana's growth and poverty-
reduction objectives. In this regard, the authorities' commitment to the objectives
embedded in the PRSP and the progress made recently in policy implementation are
encouraging.
"The authorities' fiscal program aims to improve public sector savings and place the
public debt burden on a downward path, while at the same time making room for
increased expenditure on poverty-reducing programs and critical investments in the sugar
industry. To achieve these goals, the program includes a reform of the tax system that
will promote revenue stability and economic efficiency. It is essential that these reforms
broaden the tax base, reduce high marginal tax rates, improve the equity and
predictability of the tax system, and strengthen tax and customs administration. In
addition, meeting the fiscal objectives will require restrained public sector wage growth,
and prudent debt management.
"Monetary, incomes and financial policies under the program aim to preserve low
inflation, while continuing to strengthen the financial sector and its supervision. In this
regard, success in maintaining low inflation will help to relieve the adjustment burden felt
particularly by the poor and promote private sector growth.
"The structural agenda in the program envisages reforms that are critical for raising the
economy's long-run growth potential, reducing poverty, improving governance and
public sector efficiency, and promoting a stable and equitable environment for private
sector activity. It includes a comprehensive modernization plan for the sugar sector, steps
to make public procurement and public investment more efficient, a strengthening of
budgetary and expenditure management systems, and a public sector modernization
program. Another key element of the reform agenda is the restructuring and privatization
of the state-owned commercial bank. Determined action in all these areas, as well as in
institutional strengthening, will be essential for securing Guyana's long-term growth
potential.
"The Executive Board endorsed Guyana's PRSP as a sound basis for Fund concessional
financial assistance and approved a new three-year PRGF arrangement. It also agreed to
Guyana's request for additional interim relief under the enhanced HIPC Initiative," Mr.
Aninat said.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex XI                               XI. 3
Recent Economic Developments
In the context of economic stabilization and structural reform programs, actions taken
since the late-1980's in the fiscal, monetary, exchange rate, and structural areas lowered
inflation, and led to a sharp increase in output in 1993-97 and a substantial reduction in
poverty. However, the initial gains from stabilization and the first set of structural
reforms have largely been exhausted. Since 1998 per capita output has declined as a
result of adverse movements in the terms of trade, a real appreciation of the currency, and
a slowdown in the implementation of critical structural reforms. In 2001, real GDP is
estimated to have increased by 1.4 percent after contracting in the previous year.
A three-year Enhanced Structured Arrangement Facility (ESAF) arrangement (later
succeeded by the PRGF) was approved by the IMF in July 1998 (see Press Release No.
98/29) and in July 2001 its commitment period was extended by the Executive Board to
end-2001. Slippages in fiscal and structural policies lead the 2001 PRGF-supported
program off track in the first half of 2001, and the program's midterm review could not be
completed.
Beginning in mid 2001, however, corrective policy actions were taken to help contain the
fiscal deficit. Overall borrowing by the nonfinancial public sector rose in 2001 to 7.7
percent of GDP from 6.5 percent in 2000. This increase mainly reflected the need to
cover for a weaker financial performance of the state-owned bauxite companies, lower
central government revenues associated in large measure with a decline in import tax
revenues, and higher noninterest expenditures, particularly on electricity subsidies.
Monetary policy implementation remained prudent, as evidenced by the continued
control over inflation. Inflation declined to 1.5 percent at end-2001, and has risen to
around 6 percent in mid-2002, reflecting in part higher utility prices. Short-term
government treasury bill interest rates fell to around 5 percent in mid-2002, and the 12-
month rate of growth of broad money was around 9 percent in mid-2002 (down from
around 12 percent in the preceding 12-month period). Credit to the private sector
increased by 1.0 percent in the 12 months to mid-2002.
The external current account deficit widened from 15.3 percent of GDP in 2000 to
18.8 percent in 2001. Exports declined by about 3 percent year-over-year in 2001, mostly
reflecting lower bauxite exports. Imports were flat, as a small increase in import volume
was offset by lower imported fuel prices. The terms of trade improved by about 8 percent
in 2001, largely as a result of lower fuel prices. Net capital inflows including official
grants fell in 2001 primarily reflecting lower private sector inflows, and the balance of
payments deficit was covered by HIPC debt relief. Official gross international reserves
remained at comfortable levels.
The implementation of structural reforms regained momentum, and this has continued in
2002. The Guyana National Cooperative Bank was offered for sale, implementation of



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex XI                             XI. 4
the plan for modernizing the Guyana Sugar Company has commenced, the strengthening
of government procurement has begun, and technical work on tax reform has been
initiated.
A new three-year PRGF arrangement has been requested by the authorities in support of a
program which builds on the adjustment and reform momentum exhibited since mid
2001.
Program Summary
Based on the authorities' PRSP, the program envisages a gradual increase of output
growth over the medium term as the implementation of structural reforms begins to
impact positively on productivity and competitiveness. The prime sectors of growth are
expected to be agriculture, mining and construction, and related services.
Real GDP is projected to increase gradually over 2002-06, rising from 1.8 percent of
GDP in 2002 to 4.2 percent in 2006. Inflation is expected to remain in the low single
digits over the medium term. The external current account deficit is expected to increase
in 2003-4 to about 24 percent of GDP, reflecting temporally higher concessionally
financed public investment spending associated with the restructuring of the state-owned
Guyana Sugar Company Ltd. (GUYSUCO).
The nonfinancial public sector (NFPS) deficit, after grants, is expected to widen from 7.5
percent of GDP in 2002 tol2.2 percent of GDP in 2004 also owing to the impact of the
GUYSUCO project, while gross international reserves should stay at comfortable levels
of close to four months of imports.
The authorities are committed to efforts to raise public savings and improve the
efficiency and governance of public services and of capital spending in order to raise the
economy's long run growth potential and reduce poverty. In this context, a prudent public
sector wage policy will be followed, and government procurement and investment
practices, and budgetary and expenditure management will be reformed. Public capital
investment will focus on modernizing the key sugar sector and implementing growth-
oriented poverty-reducing projects financed with external support, including relief under
the HIPC Initiative for external debt service.
Structural reforms in the financial and tax systems will seek to improve efficiency and
encourage private investment. Measures envisaged should broaden the tax base, reduce
high marginal tax rates and improve administration. Efforts will also be made to
restructure publicly owned bauxite companies, freeing up resources for poverty
reduction.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex XI                               XI. 5
Guyana joined the IMF on September 26, 1966, and its quota24 is SDR 90.9 million
(about US$120 million). Its outstanding use of IMF financing currently totals 71 SDR
million (about US$94 million).
For questions please contact Mr. J. Guzman, Division Chief, Caribbean I, Western Hemisphere
Department, IMF, ext. 38606
24 A member's quota in the IMF determines, in particular, the amount of its subscription,
its voting weight, its access to IMF financing , and its allocation of SDRs.






Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex XII                                       XII.l
Guyana: Selected Economic Indicators
(Annual percent change; unless otherwise noted)
1997       1998      1999       2000      2001
Real economy
Nominal GDP                           7.7        1.2       11.7       5.1       0.6
Real GDP                              6.2       -1.7        3.0       -1.4      1.4
Consumer price index (end-of-period)  4.2        4.7        8.7       5.8       1.5
Gross national saving 1/             16.2       15.0       12.6       7.3       3.1
Nonfinancial public sector 1/
Revenue                              36.0       35.1       33.0      33.7      33.1
Expenditure                          45.1       41.9       39.1      47.7      48.5
Current                             27.0      26.5       27.3       33.9     34.5
Capital                             18.1       15.4      11.8       13.8      14.0
Saving                                9.0        8.6        5.8       -0.2     -1.4
Overall balance (before grants)      -9.1       -6.8       -6.1     -14.0     -15.3
Grants                                5.7        1.6        4.4       7.7       8.3
Overall balance (after grants)        -3.4      -5.2       -1.7       -6.3     -7.0
Discrepancy -                         0.2       -0.4        0.1      -0.2      -0.7
Overall borrowing requirement         -3.2      -5.6       -1.6       -6.5     -7.7
Money and interest rates
Domestic credit of the banking system 2/  18.3  15.6      -12.5       4.9       2.6
Public sector (net) 2/                3.4        4.8      -18.3       1.1       1.9
Private sector 2/                    14.9       10.8        5.8       3.8       0.7
Broad money                          11.7        6.8       12.1      10.9       8.9
Treasury bills (91 days)              8.2        8.8       11.1       9.2       6.3
External sector
Current account balance 1/          -14.2      -13.7      -10.8      -15.3    -18.8
Overall balance of payments 3/        4.3      -17.4       -4.5      59.5     -12.3
Gross official reserves 4/            4.7        4.3        4.4       4.5       4.3
Debt-service ratios:
To exports of goods and
nonfactor services                  16.3       14.6       10.4      11.8      10.3
To central govemment revenue         58.5       50.3       34.2       35.6     30.9
Real effective exchange&rate
(depreciation -) -                   8.7      -12.5       2.0        7.8      -4.2
Source: Guyanese authorities.
1/ In percent of GDP.
2/ In percent of broad money'at-the beginning of the period.
3/ In millions of U.S. dollars.
4/ After original HIPC Initiative assistance; in months of imports of goods and nonfactor services.






Operations Portfolio (iBRD/iDA and Grants                                                                 0JQ
As of Dat 11/11/2002
Closed Projecta         26
IBRDODA                                                                                                                                                                                           0
Total Disbursed (Active)                  23.23
of *dch has been repaid                 0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)                 313.31                                                                                                                                            23
of which has been repaid              162.25
Total Disbursed (Active + Cosed)         336.53                                                                                                                                             >
of wvich has been repaid              162.25
Totai Undsbmsed (Active)                  13.58                                                                                                                                             3
Total Und1sbursed (Clsed)                  0.00                                                                                                                                             X
Total Undisbursed (Active+C1osedr         13.58
Difference Between
Active Projects                                           Last PSR                                                                                 Expected ard Actual
Supervision Rating                            Oriainal Amount In US S Millions                 Disbursements at
Project ID     Project Name                        Development    Implementation   Fiscal Year    IBDR      IDA   GRANT     Cancel     Undisb.     Orig.   Frm.Rev d
Objetives        Progress
P057272        FINANCIAL & PRIVATES SES                                 S              2000                   4.8                        0.25784     0.4
P007257        GY WATER SUPPLY TA Al S                                  S              1994                  17.5                       7.545741     8.1        7.951634
P007269        GY-SECONDARY EDUCA HS                                    S              1996                  17.3                       5.777295      7         5.310110
Resul                  39.6                      13.580880    15.5        13.26174
a. Inrtended disbursements to date mirs actual disbursmerts to date asprcjected at appra2saL



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex XIm                                    XEm .2
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Guyana
Guyana
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 6/30/2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
* Held                  Disbursed
FY Approval Cornpany      Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998 GuyamBank        0      1    0     0    0    0.5    0     0
1998 SEFCaraLodge   0.68    0     0     0 0.45      0    0     0
1998 SEF IDS        1.23     0    0     0 1.23      0    0     0
Total Portfolio:    1.91     1     0     0 1.68    0.5    0     0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex XIV                                                                   XIV.1
Guyana at a glance                                                               916102
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America    middle-
Guyana    & Carib.  Income     DOveoopm.nt diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                       0.77       524     2.164                 Lfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas mett7d, US$)                     840     3,560     1,240
GNI (Atlas method, USS bilflons)                      0.64     1,862     2,677
Average annual growth, 199541
Population (%)                                         0.5       1.5       1.0
Labor force (%)                                        1.5       2.2       1.2      GNI                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent esatmate (latest year available, 199541)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% otpopulaton below natonal poverty One)
Urban populabon (% of total populaton)                  38        76        46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       63         70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,O oEive births)                54         29        33
Child malnutrition (% of chidren under 5)               12         9        11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)    94        85        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     1        11        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populaton)   102       130       107            Guyana
Male                                                103        131       107              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              101        128       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           0.57     0.34      0.71      0.70
Gross domestic investment/GDP                31.4     42.2      22.6      21.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP            68.9    116.5      96.1      94.9                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    8.0     17.9       8.0       5.6
Gfoss national savings/GDP                            -5.3       7.3       3.1
Current account balance/GDP                 -32.4    -45.3     -15.3     -18.8      Domestc        /           I
Interest paymenbtsGDP  -                      6.3     14,0       6.3       6.5        s                        Investment
Total debt/GDP                              159.5    589.2     205.8     201.6     savings
Total debt service/exports                            26.5      15.9      15.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                      118 3
Present value of debt/exports                                  115.6
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141      2000      2001   200146
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 -2.5      4.5     -1.4       1.5       2.7               Guyana
GDP per capita                      -2.0      4.1     -2.0       0.8       1.8               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       -1.0      1.7     -1.9       0.2       1.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP 1%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         40
Agriculture                                  22.2     38.4      31.1      31.3
Industry                                     30.5     32.0      29.0      28 3     2!
Manufacturing                              14.9     12.9        8.2       8.2
Services                                     47.3     29.6      39.9      40.4      o
Private consumption                          63.0     60 9      67 3      69 0
General govemment consumption                29.1     21.2      24.7      25.4
Importsofgoodsandservices                    92.3    140.9     110.7     111.3                  GDI         0GDP
1981-91  199141       2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growthw)
Agriculture                                  -0.5      3.9      -9.1       3.4     Is -
Industry                                     -5.2      6.6      -1.6       0.2     1         o
Manufacturing                               -8.6     7.4      -13.8       2.5
Services                                     -11       37        51        1.0       __                 _
Private consumpton                           -4.7      5.5        11       4.1     -      9as   57        59     00    0
General govemment consumption                 4.1      6.8      28.2       4.4    nl0
Gross domestic investment                    -2.8     -2.3      -4.6       -1.9                  Exports   OImports
Imports of goods and services                -2.2      1.2       4.4       2.0
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicatorm In the country (In bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Guyana PRSC Program Document - Annex XIV                                                                        XIV.2
Guyana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices1961                                     1991       2000     2001      Inflatlon I%)
(% change)
Consumerpnces                                           1015        61        27 7     o
Implicit GDP deflator                           4 3    126.7        6. 6     -08
Govenmment finance                                                                                   _
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o             9 7   so
Current revenue                                         49.2       39 5      39 8     .5
Current budget balance                                   14.3       4.7       4.0                   GDP deflator  -   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                   0.6      -7.5      -8&6
TRADE
1981      1991      2000      2001      Export and Import levels [USS mfl.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             346      254        505       490     7s
Rice                                                     18        52        50
Sugar                                           ..       90       119       109
Manufactures                                            20         78        77
Total imports (cil                              428      307        585       584     2s0
Export prce index (1995=100)                             108         81        84          95    go 07      38   99   o00    1
Import price index (1995=100)                             83        100        95                  oexports      elmperts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                131         81        88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991       2000      2001      CurrentaccountbalancetoGDP(%)
(us$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   369      357        685       662 o
Imports of goods and services                   499      431        789       776
Resource balance                               -129      -75       -104      -114       s 
Net income                                      -55     -107         .52      -61
Net current transfers                             :       29         47        44     .10
Current account balance                        -185     -153       -109      -131     -15
Financing items (net)                                    193        171       147
Changes in net reserves                                  -41        -62       -16      20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                   123        297       285
Conversion rate (DEC, localWUSS)                2.8     111.8      182.6    187.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981      1991      2000      2001
(US$ millions)                                                                         ComposItion of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            910     1,984      1,465     1,406
IBRD                                           42       55          8         6                     1    6 9
IDA                                            26      134        180       188
Total debt service                               97       102       116       105
IBRD                                            3       1 1         4         4                                      0
IDA                                             0        1          2         3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 9      158         39
Official crecditors                          'I'l       67         23              |        552             &   gI
Private creditors                             -15       -13         0         0
Foreign direct investment                      -2        0         67
Portfciio equity                                0        0          0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    23       18          0         0      A - IBRD                     E - Bilate    I
Disbursements                                  15       40          6        10      B-IDA     D- thermurtlateral  F -Prvate
Principal repayments                            1        6          4         5      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net rlows                                      14       34          2         5    1                      _
Interest payments                               2        6          2         2
Net transfers                                  12       28          0         3
Development Economics                                                                                                     9116/02



IaRD 30725
__~~~ R AZt ILt_A
VENEZELA                             >     ':  - 
i8op t 0dgn Und tor 1 kZ q . | Y  =  _  >    >           th 9U7rw St GAXIP,  o f d
o5u  i    loon l .  B R A Z IW L-d - aon,
Grop dJoc~,n.  60°.g     ;             5,6'                     ,c bmt°
FEBRUARY 2000









Report No.:        25126  GUA
Type:     PAD



