PRSC Concept Paper-DRAFT-- October II, 2002/ p.1 EI6                  3
WORLD BANK
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
1.    Government Policy Position: In its National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
2001-2005, the Government of Guyana unequivocally declared its commitment to
sustainable development including sustainable human development as major pillars of
our country's socio-economic program. In this context, Guyana seeks to integrate
economic, environmental and social values during planning and to distribute benefits
equitably across socio-economic strata and gender upon implementation. It also seeks to
ensure that opportunity for continued development remains undiminished for future
generations. This approach also defines the need for environmental protection to be
treated as a cross-sectoral matter applied to all aspects of the development process.
2.    Summary of PRSC-I. This Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) is the first
of a series of such credits designed to support the poverty reduction strategy outlined in
Guyana's PRSP and the National Development Strategy. The ultimate medium-term goal
for Guyana's poverty reduction strategy is to reduce the poverty headcount ratio of 35%
of the population under poverty to 31%. Other key poverty reduction goals elaborated in
the PRSP include: (a) creating opportunities for income generation; (b) job creation; (c)
reducing infant and maternal mortality rates; (d) achieving universal primary education;
and (e) eliminating gender disparities in education. The three year program of sequential
PRSCs will provide support for a number of important reforms, including: key reforms to
raise productivity in the sugar, water and forestry sectors; reform of public sector
procurement and auditing; the establishment of more effective programs in health and
education; a more effective system of local government; an improved safety net to protect
the poor and unemployed; and an enhanced system of program monitoring.
3.    The 2002 Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC-D), comprising
approximately US$12 million to be disbursed as one tranche in 2002, has been
categorized by the World Bank as a Sector Adjustment Credit (SECAC) that is subject to
all the Bank's environmental and social Safeguard Policies. Of the various PRSC-
supported policy reforms, the main ones of environmental significance involve sugar,
mining, forestry, water, and private investment. Two other items under Government
consideration with environmental implications, bauxite privatization and rural roads, are
no longer part of the PRSC. The PRSC-supported actions of highest environmental
sensitivity (corresponding to a Category "A" rating under the World Bank's
Environmental Assessment Policy [OP 4.01]) involve the sugar and mining sectors.
These actions, along with those for forestry, are anticipated to be conditions for the
PRSC-II (to be processed as a future IDA [World Bank] credit, most likely in 2004), but
not for this PRSC-I. Accordingly, the PRSC-I has been classified as Category "B"
(requiring this Environmental Analysis, but not a full Environmental Impact
FIL COPYD



PRSC Concept Paper-DRAFT-- October 11, 2002/ p.2
Assessment), but the future PRSC-ll is likely to be classified as Category "A" (requiring
a detailed Environmental Impact Assessment that addresses the sugar and mining sector
issues).
4.    The PRSC will be the World Bank's principal lending instrument to Guyana over
the next few years. However, from an environmental standpoint, it is also worth noting
that the Bank is prepared to assist the Government with establishment of the National
Protected Areas System (NPAS). This project was proposed for a US$6 million grant
from the Global Environment Facility (GEF); total project size would be about US$1 1
million. As presently designed, this project would assist in establishing the legal,
regulatory and technical framework for a national protected areas system in Guyana.
Although project preparation started in the mid-1990s, project processing stalled after
appraisal in 1998 due primarily to (i) concerns raised by Amerindians and NGO
representatives about the status of indigenous land claims and resource use issues in areas
proposed for possible NPAS protection, and (ii) the ensuing stalemate with Government
and Amerindian representatives in defining agreed mechanisms for resolving the issues
raised and achieving meaningful participation by indigenous people in the design and
management of the NPAS. Discussions to move the project forward resumed with the
Government and other stakeholders in October 2001. The Bank is currently reviewing
performance against agreed next steps with the Government to assess the viability of
continuing project processing. This principally involves securing agreement on
appropriate stakeholder consultation processes for developing the revised project design
and participation plans for the establishment and management of protected areas during
project implementation.
5.    Sugar. The PRSC-supported restructuring of Guyana's sugar industry will
include the construction of a new, modem sugar factory at the coastal town of Skeldon,
along with the expansion of sugar cane cultivation by some 10,000 hectares.
Approximately half of this cane expansion area would be on lands owned by the Guyana
Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO), and the other half on private farmers' lands. Some of
the planned sugar cane expansion area is currently freshwater swamp forest and other
wetlands, which would be drained for cane cultivation. The World Bank's Natural
Habitats Policy (OP 4.04) requires adequate mitigation measures (such as a compensatory
protected area) if the project-caused natural habitat loss is deemed to be significant. The
proposed sugar cane expansion area would not qualify as a critical natural habitat under
OP 4.04, since large expanses of similar and less disturbed wetland habitats occur in the
general vicinity. However, in accordance with the World Bank's Environmental
Assessment and Natural Habitats policies, a full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
will be carried out. The EIA will assess the relative significance of the natural habitat
area to be converted to cane cultivation and recommend appropriate mitigation measures
as part of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the Skeldon area expansion.
The EIA (presently under preparation) is expected to cover the full range of
environmental and related social issues associated with the factory, new cultivation area,
and irrigation and drainage system. The Government of Guyana accepts that the
completed EIA--including EMP agreed between Government (including GUYSUCO and
the Environmental Protection Agency, EPA) and the World Bank-will be a requirement
2



PRSC Concept Paper-DRAFT-- October II, 2002/ p.3
for signing the construction contract for the new sugar factory and associated new
irrigation and drainage works. It is anticipated that tfie completed EIA and agreed EMP
will be a World Bank condition for appraisal of the future PRSC-II.
6.    In addition to the Skeldon area expansion, GUYSUCO intends to initiate the
divestiture of surplus sugar cultivation lands prior to the PRSC-II. These land parcels are
located in the vicinity of Georgetown and other coastal areas, all far away from Skeldon.
The parcels which might be sold off in the foreseeable future are mostly under 100
hectares and are presently or recently cultivated; none contain significant patches of any
natural habitats.
7.    Mining. The Government is considering the drafting of a new mining law which
would facilitate new mining investments, while promoting improved environmental
management. In certain respects, passage of a new mining law would represent a
considerable environmental improvement, compared to the current legal framework. For
example, the new law and implementing regulations would probably likely provide a
stronger legal basis for controlling the ongoing, often highly destructive informal placer
mining (for gold and diamonds), such as by requiring settling ponds to keep sediment
from degrading rivers. On the other hand, a new mining law would inevitably seek to
attract new, large-scale mining by international companies. The establishment of any
such large new mines (and associated facilities, such as access roads, camps, and
company towns) would require careful management to minimize and mitigate adverse
environmental impacts. Accordingly, it is expected that the PRSC-ll would require (prior
to appraisal, most likely in 2004) the completion of a Sector Environmental Assessment
(SEA) of mining in Guyana. The SEA would provide recommendations for improving
the draft new mining law and regulations from an environmental stlndpoint; it would also
identify priority actions for the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission (GGMC) and
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to implement. Passage of a new mining law
which adequately incorporates environmental provisions has been suggested as a prior
condition for possible subsequent PRSC's after 2004.
8.     Forestry. Guyana's Forestry Commission is drafting a new Forests Act; the
current forestry law was enacted in 1953 and is outdated and relatively weak with respect
to environmental issues. Passage of the new Forests Act is proposed as a prior condition
for the PRSC-II, most likely in 2004. In the interim, the Forestry Commission expects to
carry out stakeholder consultations, so as to improve the sense of ownership of the new
law, both within the Government and civil society. The Government understands that for
its part, the World Bank will need to review the draft legislation and advise Government
whether the proposed new law is broadly consistent with the spirit of the Bank's Forestry,
Natural Habitats, Indigenous Peoples, and other environmental and social Safeguard
Policies. The Bank is also in the process of reviewing the 1988 Code of Practicefor
Forest Operations and, if useful, might suggest some technical changes to Guyana's
Forestry Commission. This Code of Practice provides guidelines for forestry operations
in Guyana, which would become legally binding regulations upon passage of the new
Forests Act. It is anticipated that the new Forests Act will substantially improve the legal
basis for sustainable and environmentally sound management of Guyana's forests. For
3



PRSC Concept Paper-DRAFT-- October 11, 2002/ p.4
example, the new law ,will provide for improved environmental and forestry controls,
increased transparency and public involvement, redu-ced opportunities for corruption,
new forest conservation concessions and special protected areas, and respect for
Amerindian rights and opportunities for community-based forestry on Amerindian lands.
9.     Water. Notwithstanding Guyana's abundance of fresh water, there are serious
deficiencies in the availability and quality of potable water, especially for the poor.
Accordingly, the PRSC-I supports wholesale restructuring of Guyana's potable water
supply system, including the merger of two existing utilities to form Guyana Water, and a
variety of other institutional, management, and pricing changes. The PRSC also supports
the establishment of national drinking water quality standards and the extension of water
supply services to squatter settlements and remote hinterland (including indigenous)
communities. The types of investments required to improve the availability of high-
quality drinking water will include wells, pipes, and treatment facilities, none of which
have significant adverse environmental impacts. No new water storage reservoirs are
planned in Guyana--and none are needed--for achieving potable water supply objectives,
since these are to be satisfied using groundwater. However, the Skeldon sugar expansion
(discussed above) will involve the expansion of an existing conservancy (shallow
reservoir) for cane irrigation (which will be analyzed in the Environmental Impact
Assessment prior to PRSC-11).
11.   Public Consultation. The PRSC supports a subset of the policy reforms and
priority investments identified in the PRSP. The PRSP recommended actions are
outlined in the PRSP Appendix, "Guyana Policy and Performance Matrix, 2002-2005".
The PRSP was product following an extensive public consultation process, and
involved approximately 8,400 participants.' Over 200 consultations consisting of 109
community consultations and 98 target groups consultations were conducted in all 10
regions of the country.
12.   The consultation process was based on a fairly elaborate structure, involving a
donor coordination unit, a PRSP steering committee, the PRSP Secretariat and the
Resource Teams as well as a broad range of community groups and other civil society
organizations. A preliminary workshop was held with identified stakeholder groups and
constituents to design the consultation process. This workshop laid particular emphasis
on the need to consult with all groups, including those based on ethnic origins, gender,
age, education and occupation. Before starting the consultation process, a Participatory
Action Plan (PAP) was drafted by the PRSP secretariat. The PAP was subsequently
reviewed and modified through discussions with civil society, Government and donor
groups.
13.   Resource teams were trained in Georgetown on the conduct of the consultations,
and the process was launched by President Jagdeo on June 18, 2001. The initial plan was
to have 72 community consultations, but because of popular demand, the number of
I     With a population estimated at about 800,000, this implies a coverage of about 1% of the
population, considerably higher than in most other PRSP countries.
4



PRSC Concept Paper-DRAFT-- October 11, 2002/ p.5
community consultations expanded to 109. In addition, 98 target group consultations
were held by civil society groups, of which 83 were carried out by religious
organizations, and others by women, farmers, and youth groups. Special consultations
were carried out in Amerindian areas. Following these local level consultations, regional
consultations were carried out in each of Guyana's ten regions in an attempt to prioritize
the findings coming from the cornmunity and target group cohsultations. The inputs from
both consultations were fed into the development of a draft PRSP, which was circulated
to key groups and discussed in October, 2001 at a national consultation in Georgetown.
14.   The PRSP reflects the results of the consultation. The draft PRSP was
adjusted to reflect the priorities identified during the consultation process. These new
areas of emphasis include a better or new discussions of governance, health, education,
small scale businesses, rural electricity, housing and other issues. The consultations
emphasized some essential points:
* Poverty is clearly linked with inadequate employment opportunities;
* Ineffective and unresponsive government agencies, particularly at the local level, are
seen as not providing key services, and not listening to local preferences. At times,
lack of oversight and control leads to corruption and misuse of funds.
* Key shortages in the education, health, housing and water sectors are a constant
problem, as well as the weaknesses in institutions designed to provide these public
services.
15.   All of the policy reformns and other Government actions of environmental
significance to be supported by the PRSC were identified in the PRSP and discussed
during the public consultation, with the possible exception of the proposed new Forestry
Act. However, it is expected that the draft Forestry Act will be und'ergo further
consultation with interested stakeholders (including environmental NGOs and forest
industries) before it is submitted for final passage.
16.   Public Disclosure. This Environmental Analysis (EA) Report has been sent to
the World Bank's InfoShop in Washington; it is also available to interested Guyanese
citizens in the Office of the President, the EPA and World Bank Office in Georgetown,
Guyana. The same public disclosure measures have been taken for the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP, which forms the conceptual underpinnings for the
PRSC).
5



PRSC Concept Paper-DRAFT-- October 11, 2002/ p.6
6



