Report No. PID11493
Project name                     Guyana-Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC) I
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Other Economic Polices.
Project ID                       GY-PE-73851
Borrower                         Cooperative Republic of Guyana
Implementing Agency              Executive Implementation Unit
Office of the President
New Garden Street
Georgetown
COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
Date of PID                      October 8, 2002
Project Appraisal Date           October 9-10, 2002
Projected Board Date             December 10, 2002
I: Country Background: In 1989, Guyana embarked upon the Economic Recovery
Program (ERP), marking a dramatic reversal from a state-controlled, socialist
economy of the past, towards a more open, free-market oriented system. Up
until 1997, the economy continued on the path of strong growth that followed
the ERP's stabilization and structural adjustment measures. Gross domestic
product (GDP) grew by over 7 percent per year between 1991-97. Gross
national income per capita rose from US$340 in 1989 to US$870 by 2000.
Poverty rates declined from 42 percent of the population in 1992 to 35
percent in 1999, although rural poverty remained high. Inflation fell to low
single digits and the fiscal situation improved significantly relative to the
early 1990s when the overall deficit had reached 23 percent of GDP.
Supported by the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, Guyana's
debt ratios have been falling towards sustainability.
However, by the late 1990s, the initial gains from economic stabilization and
the first generation of structural reforms had been exhausted. At the same
time, a series of domestic and external shocks, including political
uncertainty, social unrest, adverse weather conditions and declining
commodity prices, impacted Guyana. The economy adjusted poorly to these
shocks and, since 1998, GDP growth has averaged less than half a percent per
year. At present, there is a risk that this slow growth and the policy drift
of recent years will begin to reverse progress on poverty reduction. Further
deterioration could, in turn, put Guyana's fragile democracy and social
stability under renewed threat.
The Government response to this challenge has included the preparation of a
full PRSP (discussed by the World Bank Board in September 2002) which sets
out an adequate framework for poverty reduction. The PRSP builds on the
National Development Strategy, a comprehensive multi- and cross-sectoral
process led by civil society. The PRSP sets out a wide-ranging, seven-pillar
approach that can be grouped into three broad thematic objectives: (i)
stimulating economic growth; (ii) strengthening governance and public sector
capacity and accountability; and (iii) enhancing the delivery of basic
services and safety nets. Reflecting the dependence of the economy on
natural resources, as well as the country's unique biodiversity and natural



habitats endowment, the PRSP also recognizes the need to ensure sustainable
development. The ultimate medium-term goal for Guyana's poverty reduction
strategy is to reduce the headcount ratio of 35% of the population under
poverty to 31%.
II: PRSC I Objectives and Description: The PRSC is the Bank's main instrument
in supporting the implementation of the PRSP. The Credit was identified in
the CAS also presented to the Board in September 2002. PRSC I will help
finance the Government of Guyana's public expenditure program and support
selected PRSP reforms. The reforms supported by the PRSC will contribute to
PRSP objectives as follows:
Stimulating economic growth by means of an appropriate medium-term
economic framework, budgetary reforms, modernization and restructuring
of the sugar sector, a new legal, regulatory and institutional
framework in the water sector
Improving Governance & Increasing Pub. Sector Efficiency &
Accountability by means of: public procurement reform; improved public
sector financial management; local government reforms; and the
establishment of an effective framework for monitoring and evaluation
of PRSP implementation.
Improving delivery and quality of basic services and safety nets
through Increasing access by the poor to quality education, improving
the efficiency of social assistance programs; addressing the spread of
HIV/AIDS; and working towards universal access to safe water supply.
III: Financing: The proposed amount of IDA financing is US$12 million
equivalent, which will be released at credit effectiveness.
IV: Poverty Category: Poverty focused operation
V: Environmental and Social Aspects: The proposed PRSC has been categorized
by the World Bank as a Sector Adjustment Credit (SECAC) that is subject to
all the Bank's environmental and social Safeguard Policies. The Credit has
been classified as Category "B" with the requirement that an Environmental
Analysis be incorporated into the credit documentation. The PRSC
Environmental Analysis was disclosed to the public in September 2002 in
Guyana (Government website and selected locations), and in October 2002 at
the Bank's Infoshop.
Contact points:
The Infoshop
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202 522 1500
Joint Task Managers
John H. Stein, Program Manager, FPSI
Tel: 473 9021
-2-



Norman Hicks, Sector Manager, PREM
Tel: 473 1977
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
October 25, 2002.
-3 -



