                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 35463

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (IDA-37250)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR9.1 MILLION (US$12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                           COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA

                                         FOR A

                    POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT I (PRSC)




                                      March 12, 2006




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department (LCSPR)
Caribbean Country Management Unit (LCC3C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                  Currency Unit =

                        FISCAL YEAR


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:  Pamela Cox
              Country Director    Caroline D. Anstey
               Sector Manager     Jaime Saavedra
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Homa Z. Fotouhi

                                           GUYANA
                         GY Poverty Red. Support Credit I (PRSC)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P073851                                                  Project Name: GY Poverty Red. Support Credit I
                                                                     (PRSC)
Team Leader: Mustapha Rouis                                          TL Unit: MNCYE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 20, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: GY Poverty Red. Support Credit I (PRSC)                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-37250
   Country/Department: GUYANA                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (20%); Water supply (20%); Health (20%); General
                            education sector (20%); Agricultural marketing and trade (20%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Municipal finance (S); Regulation and competition policy (S); Water
                            resource management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/10/2002                                     Effective:                           09/15/2003
     Appraisal: 10/10/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/17/2002                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 01/21/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA/Office of the President
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline Anstey                                Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 Jaime Saavedra Chanduvi                        Norman Hicks
Team Leader at ICR:             Homa Z. Fotouhi                                J. Stein
ICR Primary Author:             Antonella Bassani


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background. Guyana is a low-income, commodity-based small economy which faces significant
development challenges. After rapid growth in the 1990s, following the transformation from a planned to a
market economy, economic activity stagnated in the late 1990s and early 2000s as a result of external and
internal shocks, as well as weak governance and a resulting poor investment climate. A difficult security
situation and social and political tensions, including tensions between the two major political parties which
are deeply divided along racial lines, contributed to hampering growth and poverty reduction efforts,
weakened investor confidence and resulted in high migration of Guyana's skilled manpower abroad.

In 2001, the Government committed itself to fundamental reforms to re-orient its economic and social
policies towards poverty reduction and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
The strategy to combat poverty outlined in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of November
2001 has three prongs: stimulating economic growth, improving the provision of basic social services and
enhancing governance. The Government has been implementing this Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS)
through a set of actions aimed at policy reform and institutional strengthening in seven areas: broad-based,
jobs-generating economic growth, environmental protection, stronger institutions and better governance,
investment in human capital with emphasis on education and health, investment in physical capital,
improved safety nets, and special interventions to address regional pockets of poverty. The program is
supported by many donors, as well as by an IMF-financed Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF). The goal of the PRS was to attain an average growth of about 2.7 percent per annum during
2002-2005, and 5 percent thereafter. It also projected the attainment of the MDGs by 2015. Since the
preparation of the PRS in 2001 and the reaching of the Enhanced HIPC Initiative Completion Point in
December 2003, two Progress Reports (PRs) on the implementation of the PRS have been prepared by the
Government ­ the first issued in May 2004 and discussed by the IDA and IMF Boards in July 2004 and the
second issued in August 2005 and expected to be discussed by the Boards in April 2006.

IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board in September 2002, marked a
fundamental shift in IDA lending strategy for Guyana.            Drawing on the PRSP consultations and
preparation process, the experience with previous interventions, and guided by the Bank's mandate for
poverty reduction and its comparative advantage in policy dialogue, the strategy focused on support for the
policy reform agenda of the PRS. Thus, the CAS made a fundamental shift away from project lending to a
program of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), a series of single-tranche programmatic credits
that were linked together as part of a coherent program in support of Guyana's poverty strategy, as the
principal lending vehicle. The pace of reforms was seen as the constraint on how many PRSCs could be
provided, but the first PRSC (PRSC I) program document suggested that it might be possible to proceed at
a pace of one PRSC per year. The envisaged actions under the credits were closely linked, with PRSC I
addressing the early stages of reform, creating the right conditions for effective government intervention,
such as preparation of action programs, implementation mechanisms and a legal framework. It was
envisaged that PRSC II and III would include actions to implement and monitor reforms. Technical
assistance for the implementation of the reform measures supported by the PRSCs was to be provided by
IDA through a Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC, US$4.8 million).

Objectives. The reforms supported under PRSC I aimed to help reduce poverty by improving prospects for
growth and investment, enhancing the Government's ability to deliver social services, and reforming the
public sector through improved efficiency, transparency and accountability, all within a framework of
sound macroeconomic management and fiscal responsibility. Specifically, PRSC I included support for:
(1) the implementation of a new education sector strategy; (2) an expanded effort to combat HlV/AIDS; (3)



                                                     - 2 -

reforms in the public sector, covering procurement and financial management; (4) tax reform, including
improvements in local government tax administration; (5) reforms in the water sector, including the
introduction of private management, increasing efficiency and water quality, and expanding service to
poorer communities; and (6) restructuring of the sugar sector, including investments designed to lower
costs, reduce redundant workers, and increase productivity.

PRSC I was disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness (SDR 9.1 million or US$12 million equivalent).
Its design was carefully coordinated with the IMF, IDB and other donors. The reforms supported by
PRSC I were implemented prior to the effectiveness of that credit. Following disbursement of the credit,
the Government continued to implement follow-up actions and reforms in the areas supported by PRSC I as
detailed below.

A great deal of analytical work was undertaken to underpin both the PRSP, the PRSC program and PRSC
I.  This included several earlier studies, including a Public Expenditure Review (PER), a Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) and Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), a
Review of Amerindian Issues (which looked at the implications of the PRS for indigenous people), and
Poverty and Social Impact Assessments (PSIAs) to examine the impact of reforms in the bauxite and water
sectors. The companion technical assistance project, PSTAC, focused on helping to design and implement
these reforms. The PSTAC also included assistance in building capacity for managing and monitoring
implementation of the PRS and PRSC I in the Office of the President, for managing the safety net program
in the Ministry of Labour, Human Services and Social Security, and provided funding for the PSIAs on the
bauxite and water sectors, and following PRSC I, on the sugar sector. These TA efforts have been closely
linked to each other and to assistance provided by other donors in related areas. They helped to identify
key issues and priority areas for support.

The program document recognized that the PRSC program involved a high element of risk, apart from
external factors, on account of the strong demands it made on the limited implementation capacity in the
public sector as well as the difficulty of achieving a national consensus on the implementation of the
government's strategy and ensuring a secure environment.       To mitigate the risks, the accompanying
PSTAC helped build capacity to meet the governance and poverty reduction objectives set out in the PRS.
It focuses on strengthening public sector financial management, the capacity to manage, monitor and
evaluate implementation of the PRS, and improving the social safety net. Moreover, during preparation
and appraisal of PRSC I, significant technical assistance was provided informally, notably with
procurement reform, restructuring of the water supply and the sugar sectors, and improvements in public
accountability and transparency. Also, IDA has continued to work closely with the donor community and
civil society in assisting the Government to stay the course on the reform agenda, and to leverage donor
assistance for governance and strengthened key institutions. Finally, the programmatic nature of future
IDA support and continued close donor cooperation helped maintain the importance and emphasis that the
Government has placed on continuing with its PRS reform efforts.

Guyana has been implementing a macroeconomic program under a SDR54.55 million PRGF arrangement
with the IMF approved in September 2002. The PRGF reflects agreement with the Government on a
macroeconomic stabilization program as well as a number of structural reform measures, including wage
and employment policies in the sugar sector, tax reform and restructuring of certain public enterprises. The
fifth review under the PRGF arrangement was successfully completed in January 2006, allowing the
disbursement of a further SDR9.27 million under the arrangement.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of PRSC1 remain unchanged and the overall objectives of the program of reforms identified



                                                   - 3 -

in the PRS and supported by IDA also has not changed. However, the timeframe for implementation of the
PRS overall program has been extended. Indeed, following Board approval of PRSC I in December 2002,
the Government delayed the revision of the Procurement Act and, as a result, the credit did not become
effective until September 2003. At the same time, the macroeconomic program went temporarily off-track,
political disruptions accelerated and the implementation of the poverty strategy was hampered. These
delays, and the underlying institutional weaknesses they reveal, indicate that the original schedule of one
PRSC per year was too optimistic and that the PRSC instrument was thus ill suited to Guyana's context.
On the basis of the above, the Government and IDA have agreed that annual PRSCs do not provide the best
instrument to support Guyana's reform program and that a series of development policy operations, still
based on a programmatic approach in support of the Government's PRS objectives, but timed to match the
speed of Government's implementation performance, would be better suited to support the country's
development needs and context.        Indeed, a follow-on operation (the Poverty Reduction and Public
Management Operation, PRPMO; a single-tranche IDA grant of SDR6.7 million) supporting the second
phase of the Government's reform program outlined in PRSC I is scheduled to be presented to the Board in
April 2006.

3.3 Original Components:
The PRSC program has four main components. These required actions by the Government in support of
four of the seven PRSP objectives.

(a) Broad based, jobs generating economic growth. Accelerating economic growth requires a stable
macroeconomic environment. PRSC I incorporated a number of macroeconomic performance targets
agreed between the Government and the IMF in the context of the PRGF. These included targets on fiscal
and balance of payments deficits and monetary growth. To encourage diversification of the economy, the
program stressed the need to encourage private sector activity by improving the enabling environment, and
to increase the competitiveness of the traditional sectors. Measures included a review of the tax system and
administration. A third element in the PRSC I concerned the restructuring and modernization of the sugar
industry to prepare it for the expected decline in the sugar price following the loss of preferential access to
the EU market.

(b)   Better investments in human capital.         In the health sector, with the IDB taking the lead in
helping the Ministry of Health develop a strategy for primary health care, PRSC I focused on curbing the
rapid spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic through the formulation and approval of a National Strategic Plan
for HIV/AIDS, and strengthening the management capacity to make the effort more effective and
sustainable. In education, PRSC I required the development of an action program to achieve the PRS's
performance targets for the sector. It also outlined a plan to strengthen the social safety nets.

(c) Stronger public sector institutions and better governance.              PRSC I addressed the need to improve
the performance of the public sector in several ways. Following the recommendations in the CPAR and
CFAA, it aimed at improving financial management through changes in public procurement, and agreement
on a program to start implementing the CFAA recommendations; it also included the preparation of a PRS
monitoring plan and envisaged future support under follow-on IDA operations for local government
reforms.

(d) Broader and better provision of basic services. Measures in this component focus on improving the
quality, efficiency and sustainability of water service provision. A comprehensive reform program for the
sector has been under way with the help of DFID and IDA. PRSC I supported the institutional components
of the reform program, which included the implementation of a new legal and regulatory framework,
agreement on tariff and subsidy levels for 2002, and the signing of a management contract for Guyana



                                                     - 4 -

Water Inc., which was created through the merger of two existing utilities.

Link with objectives. The four project components are directly linked to four of the Government's
development objectives as reflected in the PRS. Their selection took into account the assistance provided
by other donors to the PRS to ensure broad coverage of assistance needs and avoid overlap. Evidence of
the close connection is also the fact that the PRSC program and the PRS use the same 26 indicators as
targets for assessing the performance.

3.4 Revised Components:
     Credit components remain unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
     This operation was not selected for assessment at entry in the Quality Assessment Group (QAG). The
ICR concludes that quality at entry was satisfactory. This is based on the following considerations. First,
the project reflects the development objective of the Government as presented in the PRS, as well as the
objective of the CAS, which is to support key priorities of the PRS through a programmatic approach.
Second, the credit's objectives were closely coordinated with the donors' programs of financial and technical
assistance to Guyana. Specifically, IDA coordinated its technical assistance with that of other donors to
the PRS, cooperated closely with the IMF, IDB and other donors on conditionalities related to structural
reforms, and took into account its other ongoing operations in Guyana (e.g. in the education, HIV/AIDS
and water areas). Third, through its single tranche design, the operation linked IDA future assistance to the
Government's pace of implementation of reform actions. Fourth, given severe capacity constraints in
Guyana's public sector, IDA provided significant technical assistance to the Government. Thus, the
companion PSTAC operation was prepared in close coordination with PRSC I and has supported the
implementation of PRSC I reform actions and their follow-up. Also, PRSC I relied heavily on earlier
studies (e.g., PER, CPAR, CFAA) and encouraged other work (e.g., PSIA, study of Amerindian Affairs).




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
PRSC I's ultimate objective was to help the Government in its efforts to achieve its PRSP goals. Progress
made towards PRSC I goals might be gained by looking at the progress the country has made so far
towards the PRS targets and how the Government has followed up on the actions taken for PRSC I and
prepared for a follow-on operation. As noted in the two PRS Progress Reports and accompanying Joint
Staff Advisory Notes (JSANs), Guyana has made progress in implementing its PRS, but achievements fell
short of expectations in some areas. This was in part due to capacity constraints, exacerbated by the
continuing outflow of skilled workers which further reduced the already weak capacity of the public sector;
a domestic environment marred by political instability, ethnic strife and an outbreak of crime and violence
in early 2002, which limited the effectiveness of Government and Parliament; and significant exogenous
shocks (e.g., floods, oil price increase). Also, aid inflows did not match expectations, partly because the
country did not reach the Completion Point of the Enhanced HIPC until December 2003. Lower inflows of
aid reduced the resources available to implement the PRS. Despite a difficult domestic and external
environment, macroeconomic stability was maintained and progress was made in implementing structural
reforms, but Guyana's growth has been weaker than projected. In terms of social indicators, of the 25 PRS
goals, 14 were attained or exceeded, with shortfalls in access to treated water and adequate sanitation,
infant mortality, the distribution of house lots and land titles, the percentage of trained teachers in
secondary schools, and HIV/AIDS, where the goal of reducing the infection rate has been frustrated by the



                                                    - 5 -

growth in the epidemic, although part of this may reflect better reporting. At the same time, spending for
the social sectors in the budget at 17.1 percent exceeded the HIPC target by 2.4 percentage points in 2004.


With respect to PRSC I, all actions supported by the credit were completed prior to its effectiveness. After
the Board approval of this single tranche credit, some delays were encountered in the implementation of the
follow-on reform program (this coincided with the delays mentioned above affecting the broader
implementation of the PRS and were due to the same factors). However, in 2005 and 2006 the Government
accelerated the implementation of its reform program in the areas supported by PRSC I as well as in the
design and implementation of follow-on reforms. Based on this progress, a follow-on single-tranche IDA
operation (PRPMO) is scheduled to be presented to the Board in April 2006 with all prior conditions
already completed. The broad conclusion is that, while there were some delays following the presentation
of PRSC I to the Board in implementing the macroeconomic policies and structural reforms supported by
the 2002 PRGF and the PRSC program, the Government accelerated reform implementation in 2005 and
2006 and the performance in both areas is now considered broadly satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
As indicated above, following the structure of the PRSC I as a single-tranche adjustment lending operation,
all actions supported by PRSC I were completed prior to the credit's effectiveness. After the disbursement
of this single tranche credit, the Government continued to make overall satisfactory progress in the areas
supported by the credit as well as in the design and implementation of follow-on reforms, although such
progress was accelerated in 2005 and 2006, as mentioned above. The discussion of the achievements under
the main components of the reform program supported by the PRSC I is organized around the following
headings: (i) broad-based, job generating economic growth (macroeconomic management, and reforms in
the sugar, mining and forestry sectors); (ii) better investments in human capital (health, HIV/AIDS,
education and improved social safety nets); (iii) stronger public sector institutions and better governance
(accontability and financial management, procurement reform, poverty monitoring and evaluation and local
government reform); and (iv) broader and better provision of basic services (water).

The policy matrix for PRSC I identified expected actions for further development as triggers for PRSC II.
The table attached in Section 10 ("Additional Information") provides details on the status of
implementation of these triggers. Several of these actions have already been implemented by the
Government as prior actions for PRPMO. The program of reforms supported by the PRPMO does not
include triggers in some areas earlier identified for PRSC II, in part to respond to the need for increased
selectivity as indicated below (see section on "Lessons Learned"), and in part given the broadly satisfactory
progress made by the Government in those areas and/or overlap with other Bank- or other donor-financed
operations.

Broad-Based, Job Generating Economic Growth

On the macroeconomic side, since 2002 the Government has implemented a macroeconomic program
supported by the IMF through a SDR54.55 million Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)
arrangement, under which the fifth review was successfully completed at end-January 2006. Public savings
increased from 7 percent of GDP in 2002 to above 10 percent in 2004, reflecting revenue efforts, wage
moderation and the restructuring of loss-making public entities, with the overall fiscal deficit (after grants)
reduced from 6 percent of GDP in 2002 to 4½ percent in 2004 reflecting also delays in capital expenditures
on the modernization of the sugar sector. Social spending was maintained at around 18 percent of GDP.
Wage policy supported the fiscal effort, as public sector wage increases were kept in line with inflation and
attrition in the public enterprises continued, making room for new teachers and nurses. Reflecting prudent



                                                       - 6 -

monetary policies, average inflation which was 5.4 percent in 2002 and 6 percent in 2003, eased to 4.7
percent in 2004, despite the surge in world oil prices. The external current account deficit narrowed from
15 percent of GDP in 2002 to 10 percent in 2004, significantly better than expected, due to solid export
performance, and lower-than-expected sugar modernization-related capital imports. Broad money growth
has increased in the past years consistent with a moderate trend decline in velocity. The smaller external
current account deficit, coupled with inflows of FDI and concessional external resources, allowed official
international reserves to remain at 3.2 months of imports in 2004.

Despite the maintenance of macroeconomic stability and some progress made in structural reforms, growth
has remained weak. Real GDP growth fell from an annual average of 7 percent during 1991-97 to 0.6
percent during 2000-04. Terms of trade shocks, adverse weather conditions and the instability that
followed the political cycle adversely affected the dominant agriculture and mining sectors, and the
economy in general. However, the persistence of weak growth since 1998 also points to more fundamental
structural weaknesses, namely a poor investment climate and high migration of entrepreneurial skills, weak
governance, and inadequate basic infrastructure.

Macroeconomic performance in 2005 was strongly affected by significant exogenous shocks that hit
Guyana, notably the closure of OMAI, the largest gold mine of the country, the severe flooding in early
2005 and higher-than-expected oil prices. Notably, the floods affected the country's most heavily populated
areas, having been the worse of the last 100 years (ECLAC assessed the impact of the floods at 60 percent
of GDP). These adverse shocks (anticipated and unanticipated) have led to some deterioration in
macroeconomic indicators in 2005, although the outcomes were broadly in line with revised expectations
under the IMF program. Real GDP is estimated to have declined by 2¾ percent. This decline was mainly
driven by the impact of the floods on the agricultural sector and the OMAI mine closure. Indeed, excluding
the agricultural and mining sectors, the economy is estimated to grow at close to 4 ½ percent in 2005.
Inflation was somewhat higher than expected, having risen to 7.1 percent (year-on-year average) from 4.7
percent in 2004, mainly as a result of the pass-through of high world fuel prices and flood-related
shortages. The current account deficit is estimated to have widened to 23 percent of GDP from 10 percent
of GDP in 2004, as a result of the oil price increase and a restocking of consumer goods following the
floods. However, sharp increases in remittances and foreign direct investment helped the Bank of Guyana
to maintain gross official reserves at three months of imports and contributed to maintain the exchange rate
broadly unchanged. Even before the floods, the public sector deficit for 2005 had been programmed to
widen markedly compared to 2004, reflecting the large public sector investment program including the
restructuring of the sugar sector. The fiscal deficit (after grants) was 13.4 percent of GDP in 2005, well
below the targeted 15.1 percent of GDP, due to strong revenues and delays in sugar modernization-related
capital expenditures which offset the deterioration in public enterprise operating balances (the result of
lower sugar production due to the floods and higher fuel prices), unplanned expenditures for emergency
repairs to the sea defense system and delays in grants. The fiscal deficit (after grants) excluding the capital
expenditure related to the sugar sector restructuring was 8.6 percent of GDP. The end-year 2005 broad
money growth is estimated to be only slightly above target reflecting a rebound in private sector credit,
following several years of stagnation.

Concerns regarding debt sustainability in Guyana re-emerged prior to the latest Multilateral Debt Relief
Initiative (MDRI). The country reached the Enhanced HIPC (E-HIPC) Completion Point in December
2003 qualifying for US$329 million of debt relief in NPV terms, additional to the debt relief of US$256
million in NPV terms obtained under the original HIPC in May 1999. The external debt burden as
measured by the NPV of external debt to revenue ratio declined following the E-HIPC Completion Point,
but rose from 195 percent in 2004 to 217 percent in 2005 and was projected to deteriorate further. Total
public debt as a percentage of GDP increased from 164 percent in 2004 to 179 percent in 2005 (see table


                                                      - 7 -

1). However, improved growth prospects and revenue effort, as well as the MDRI, are expected to
significantly improve Guyana's debt outlook.


                                     Table 1:Guyana - Macroeconomic Framework

                                                                             2002          2003           2004        2005
                                                                                    (Annual percent change)
          Real GDP Growth                                                       1.1         -0.7             1.6       -2.8
              Excluding OMAI mine                                                                                       0.3
          Consumer prices (Average)                                             5.4            6             4.7        7.1
                                                                         (In percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
          Total revenue and grants                                            40.5         39.6              44       46.8
          Capital expenditure                                                 12.6         14.4            16.3       24.5
          Overall public sector balance (after grants) 1/                      -5.9         -8.7            -4.5      -13.4
              Excluding Skeldon 2/                                                                          -4.1       -8.6
          Primary sector balance 3/                                             2.1         -2.6             0.9       -4.1

          Total public sector debt (end of period)                           193.8        173.1           164.4      178.6
             External 1/                                                       168        146.4             137        148
             Domestic 4/                                                      25.8         26.7            27.4       30.6

          External current account 1/5/                                      -15.2         -11.8            -9.5      -22.6
          Gross official reserves (In millions of US dollars)                  280          271             225        240
             Months of imports                                                  4.4          4.4             3.2        3.0
          NPV of debt-to-revenue ratio (in percent) 6/7/                     376.1          208           194.9      217.1


          Sources: Data provided by the Guyanese authorities; and Fund staff estimates and projections.
          1/ Beginning in 2004 reflects interest payments after original HIPC and enhanced HIPC debt relief.
          2/ The Skeldon project supports the restructuring of the sugar sector.
          3/ Excluding the Skeldon project.
          4/ Based on bank holdings of government debt.
          5/ Excluding official transfers
          6/ Excludes the letter of credit used for financing the GUYSUCO sugar restructuring project.
          7/ NPV calculations are based on a discount rate of 5 percent




In August 2003, the Government initiated a medium-term tax reform program to broaden the tax base and
increase efficiency, equity and transparency of the tax system. Main actions completed include: (i)
adoption by Parliament of the Value-Added Tax (VAT) and Excise Tax Regulations in January 2006; (ii)
the elimination of the Minister of Finance's power to grant discretionary tax exemptions and annual
publication of exemptions beginning in 2004; (iii) a limit on most income tax holidays to 5 years, except for
certain sectors, which were limited to 10 years; (iv) an increase in withholding taxes, consumption taxes for
certain services and personal income tax threshold; and (v) progress in strengthening tax administration,
particularly in the Guyana Revenue Authority (GRA), with senior management being put in place,
autonomy granted to the GRA in its human resource strategy and new accountants hired for audit
departments. Improvements have also been made to increase local tax bases through the revaluation of real
properties, and by permitting local governments to seize and sell properties of tax defaulters.

In the sugar sector, under PRSC I the Government issued the tender for the construction of the Skeldon
sugar mill; agreed to provide any needed environmental mitigation for new land development affecting



                                                                    - 8 -

natural habitats; and agreed on a three-year program to reduce redundant workers and to limit salaries and
bonuses in the sugar sector. In addition to these actions supported by PRSC I, the state-owned sugar
company, GUYSUCO, implemented measures to strengthen its financial viability, including introducing a
new wage policy limiting wage increases to inflation starting from 2001, gradually downsizing its
workforce over the last three years, and implementing a profit-oriented management contract in February
2004. An agreed plan to reduce costs by shifting production to high-productivity areas and critical
investments for the construction of a modern sugar processing plant and of a co-generation plant are also
being undertaken. After some delays, in December 2004, an agreement was reached with China for a
US$32 million concessional loan for the construction of the new sugar factory and a co-generation plant in
Skeldon. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the new sugar mill and associated canefields
expansion has been completed and is being implemented, and the construction of the factory has begun.
The EMP was prepared by GUYSUCO and carefully reviewed by IDA staff, which found it to be
satisfactory (after specific recommended changes had been made). The Policy and Human Resource
Development (PHRD) grant for the upcoming PRPMO also provided technical assistance for a site
selection study of the new landfill that GUYSUCO will need for wastes generated by construction and
operation of the Skeldon facilities, as well as for a Rapid Biological Assessment of the conservancy area to
provide useful baseline data for biodiversity monitoring and management. GUYSUCO has also prepared,
and is systematically implementing, a detailed Pest Management Plan. Monitoring of broader
developments in the sugar sector is also being done by a DFID-financed consultant, in close consultation
with the IMF and IDA.

In the forestry sector, no specific action was supported by PRSC I. Since then, with technical assistance
from DFID and IDA the Government has drafted and submitted to Parliament a new Forests Bill that
improves the legal basis for sustainable and environmentally sound management of Guyana's forests. The
Bill is expected to ensure the sustainable development of Guyana's forest resources, while protecting the
environment and advancing land tenure and the rights of indigenous peoples. For example, the new law
provides for improved environmental and forestry controls, increased transparency and public involvement,
reduced opportunities for corruption, new forest conservation concessions and special protected areas,
enhanced respect for Amerindian rights, and opportunities for community-based forestry on Amerindian
lands.

In the mining sector, no specific action was supported by PRSC I. Since then, in 2003 the Government
restructured the loss-making state-owned bauxite company, LINMINE, with the laying-off of its workforce
and the signing of a management contract to eliminate losses and prepare the company for privatization.
The privatization was completed in December 2004 (with the Government retaining 30 percent ownership)
and the private investor is currently undertaking a significant investment program. BERMINE, after the
laying-off of its workforce in 2002, was closed in December 2003, and the remaining state bauxite
company, AROAIMA, has remained cash neutral to the budget, and in December 2004 signed a
management contract to prepare for its privatization expected in 2006. As a result, bauxite exports
increased from US$35 million in 2002 to US$67 million in 2005 and are projected to reach over US$100
million in the next three years driven by ongoing foreign direct investment. Output of gold has declined due
to the closure of the Omai mine (the largest in the country) but is projected to recover gradually over the
coming years as a result of new foreign direct investment (including the IFC-supported Guyana Goldfields
hard-rock mine) and increased gold declaration by informal small mining operations. Also, with assistance
under a PHRD grant, the Government is preparing a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) of the
mining sector to serve as a basis for the new Mining Bill.

Better Investments in Human Capital




                                                      - 9 -

In the education sector, under PRSC I the Government developed its Strategic Plan for Education (SPE) for
2003-07 building on the earlier five-year plan for education that was carried out between 1995 and 2000.
The SPE focuses on reducing repetition rates, increasing secondary school enrollment, reducing
overcrowding, reducing student and teacher absenteeism, improving teacher training and beginning the
process of decentralization of school administration. The plan places special attention on previously
underserved students and remote and economically-deprived regions. Guyana is one of the 17 countries
receiving assistance in its education reform as part of the Education For All-Fast Track Initiative
(EFA-FTI). Implementation of the SPE is proceeding broadly satisfactorily. Recently, second year
funding for the implementation of the EFA-FTI was approved, based on progress made so far. Actions in
the next year will focus on implementing a community-based school-feeding program at the primary level
and upgrading hinterland schools. This will complement the remote areas incentive payment scheme
launched by the Government in 2005 to help retain teachers by topping up the hard-living allowance.

Under PRSC I, the National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS (2002-2006) was formulated and approved.
Also, a program management unit was established in the Ministry of Health. The plan seeks to reduce the
risk of vulnerability to infection through prevention and control of the transmission of STIs; promote sexual
health; and improve the quality of life of persons living with AIDS and STIs. The Government has recently
completed a revision and updating of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan through a broad consultative
process involving key stakeholders in Government, civil society and external donors and multi-lateral
agencies. It is due to be submitted to Parliament for adoption. This program is being supported by the
Guyana HIV-AIDS Prevention and Control project which is financed by an IDA grant, the Global Fund,
CIDA, programs of the United States (including PEPFAR), and other bilateral and UN agencies.

In response to the constraints in providing adequate health services, the Government is undertaking a major
sector reform. To guide this process, it developed the National Health Plan 2003-2007 which outlines
strategies for meeting the health sector goals in the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy and the
Millennium Development Goals, including providing a standard package of minimal services to all citizens
and beginning the process of decentralizing to the regions. No specific action was supported by PRSC I in
this area. Since then, the Government has made progress in increasing the number of health workers,
increased the spending on essential drugs and medical supplies by 25 percent from 1998 to 2003, increased
the local production of drugs at reduced cost, and rehabilitated the Georgetown Hospital.

As part of the PRSC-I appraisal, IDA staff, working with the Government, agreed on a plan to enhance the
capacity of the Ministry of Labor, Human Services and Social Security (MLHSSS) to strengthen the social
safety nets. Technical assistance to implement this plan has been provided by IDA under the PSTAC. Since
PRSC I and with IDA assistance, the Government has carried out four studies that provided
recommendations in the areas of management information system, targeting, risk and vulnerability, labor
market assessment, social legislation, and MLHSSS needs assessment. On the basis of these
recommendations, the Government has adopted and started implementing a time-bound reform program to
rationalize and improve the impact and cost-effectiveness of the social protection programs of the
MLHSSS. The program has been costed and sources of financing for its implementation have been
identified. The program includes the development of a beneficiary identification system to target
households, strengthening the capacity to monitor social protection programs through the use of household
survey data, updating of the Poor Relief and Old Age Pension Laws and harmonization of other legislation
as it relates to social protection. An Inter-ministerial Committee has been constituted under the MLHSSS
to oversee implementation of the action plan.

Stronger Public Sector Institutions and Better Governance



                                                      - 10 -

In the area of fiscal management and accountability, under PRSC I the Government prepared the draft of
an Audit Act. The Government also agreed on a program to implement the findings of the CFAA,
including a program to strengthen the Auditor General's department, the establishment of financial
oversight of the public sector, reduction of discretionality in government agencies and public disclosure of
public officials' financial affairs. Following PRSC I, the new Audit Act was enacted by Parliament in
April 2004. It makes the Office of the Auditor General a semi-autonomous agency responsible to the
Parliament. As stated in the Act, the Auditor General (AG) is the external auditor of the public accounts of
Guyana. In that capacity, he has "complete discretion in examining and reporting on the receipt,
disbursement and control of public money, and on the economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of
such monies." In other words, the AG has the power to conduct performance and value-for-money audits
and reports to the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in Parliament. Regulations detailing rules, policies
and procedures regarding the management and operation of the Audit Office and the conduct of audits were
prepared by the Government and, following approval by Parliament in May 2005, were gazetted in July
2005--this is a PRPMO prior Board condition.

In 2004, the Office of the Auditor-General's (OAG) report identified a number of key deficiencies in the
financial operations of the Government. The Government has satisfactorily acted on the major findings and
recommendations in the Auditor-General's report to strengthen targeted reforms in related areas. The first
is the need for increased transparency and accountability in the use of the proceeds from the Guyana
Lotteries (also flagged in previous OAG reports). Specifically, the Government has defined clear criteria
for the selection of activities to be financed from the Lotteries Fund, has started to regularly disclose
information on activities proposed and funded and intends to carry out annual audits of the Fund's
operations. Second, the Auditor-General's report recommended that the Wildlife Division funds be
accounted for and remitted to the Consolidated Fund, and the organization be transferred from the Office of
the President to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)--and the Government has implemented both
actions. The Wildlife Division is now an integral part of the EPA operations and all revenues,
expenditures, assets and liabilities relating to this division are now recorded in the books and accounts, and
hence reflected in the financial reporting, of the EPA. Other key deficiencies identified in the
Auditor-General's report are: (i) the need to make public (i.e. send to the Parliament) the audits of the
Guyana Revenue Authority (GRA) (this had not been done since 1999); (ii) the fact that the Commissioner
General and Deputy-Commissioner General of the GRA held short-term contracts, which resulted in lack of
job security and decreased ability to provide frank advice; and (iii) the need to table all external loans in the
National Assembly (action required by the law), thereby increasing transparency. The Government has
addressed these deficiencies. This follow-up ensures compliance with the Audit Act provision that the
Government act on the Auditor General's recommendations and increases the accountability and efficiency
in the use of public sector resources.

As indicated above, to improve public financial management the Government agreed, under PRSC-I and on
the basis of the CFAA recommendations, to strengthen fiduciary oversight, which has three elements: (i)
ensuring effective parliamentary oversight over public finances (Study 1); (ii) curtailing discretionary
powers of public officials (Study 2); and (iii) ensuring effective public disclosure of assets of officials
(Study 3). In 2005, consultants financed by the PSTAC prepared studies on each of these elements. The
Government reviewed the recommendations of these studies and discussed them with key stakeholders who
had also provided input to the consultants during the preparation of the report and which included members
of the opposition parties, members of Parliament, public officials, and civil society and private sector
representatives. Out of 60 recommendations detailed in the studies, the Government identified 30 for
implementation in a first phase (January 2006-December 2007). These include agreement on
capacity-building measures for improved oversight of public finances by Parliament; limitation of
discretionary powers through internal rules, external reporting and training needs; and improved system for


                                                       - 11 -

public disclosure of assets through enforcement of existing disclosure rules and definition of the roles and
responsibilities of the Integrity Commission and related agencies. The Government's selection of an initial
set of 30 recommendations for first phase implementation was informed by the importance of these
recommendations for strengthening fiduciary oversight and concerns about overburdening the already
heavy Parliament agenda. The recommendations related to Parliamentary functions and reforms (from
Study 1) were discussed and endorsed by the Parliament in December 2005, with support from the main
Opposition Party. The Government has since adopted a time-bound action plan for implementation of these
30 recommendations and has already started its implementation with: (i) the tabling to Parliament of the
relevant Standing Orders; (ii) the setting up of a project execution unit in the office of the president to
oversee implementation of the recommendations from Studies 2 and 3; and (iii) preparation of terms of
reference for the implementation of recommendations related to reforms on limiting discretionary powers
and disclosing public officials' assets. The Government has committed to reviewing the remaining 30
recommendations for implementation after completion of the first phase. Bi-partisan support of the
fiduciary oversight reform agenda represents an unprecedented and encouraging development in a highly
polarized environment, highlights the commitment across the political spectrum to these reforms and
contributes to their sustainability.

In addition to the above measures, a new Fiscal Management and Accountability Act was enacted in
December 2003 and program budgeting is being gradually introduced in key ministries. Progress has also
been made in improving public expenditure management with the introduction of a computerized integrated
financial management system (IFMAS) in all Ministries and several agencies. While the Government has
restricted staff recruitment to essential services and maintained wage discipline, there has been some delay
in a major reform of the civil service. The IDB is currently supporting the Government in the initial steps
of this reform program.

In the area of public procurement and based on the recommendations of the 1999 Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR), under PRSC-I rules governing public procurement were revised by the 2002
National Procurement Act, which was subsequently amended by the Tender and Procurement Act of 2003.
Since PRSC I, the Government has continued implementation of its procurement reform program, with a
major focus on the adequate application of the recently-passed legislation and strengthening of its
institutional framework. As part of this reform agenda, accompanying regulations were adopted in
December 2004. The aim of the two Acts and regulations is to make public procurement more efficient,
competitive and transparent. The 2003 Act established a National Procurement and Tender Administration
(NPTA) headed by a Board and supported by a Secretariat. Members of the National and Regional Tender
Administration Boards have been appointed in 2005 and the NPTA Secretariat is being staffed. Also,
standard bidding documents and evaluation criteria have been developed according to international
standards. In order to assess actual progress made so far in the reform of the procurement framework, the
Government asked the Office of the Auditor General to review procurement practices used since the
enactment of the new Procurement Act and regulations. The review conducted in late 2005 identified some
delays in staffing the National and Regional Tender Boards and some weaknesses in compliance with
record-keeping requirements. The Government intends to act on these recommendations in 2006.
Additional actions are underway with IDA financing under PSTAC including strengthening institutional
capacity, carrying out a comprehensive training program, and developing other implementing tools such as
a procurement monitoring and evaluation system, and an e-procurement strategy.

As indicated above, the analysis of progress made in poverty reduction has been hampered by lack of an
effective poverty monitoring and evaluation framework. Under PRSC I, the Government prepared a
monitoring plan for the PRS and established a new Policy Coordination and Program Management Unit
(PCPMU) in the Office of the President with a coordinator and core staff appointed. However, during


                                                      - 12 -

2002-04, implementation of that plan was slow due to delays in establishing and staffing the monitoring
unit and creating a viable system of incorporating civil society into the monitoring process, and limited
progress made in strengthening the statistical data collection system. The PCPMU was finally established
and staffed in 2003. The Government also set up five structures to implement its monitoring and
evaluation strategy: a PRS M&E unit; PRS focal points in line ministries and agencies; a PRS steering
committee; regional committees; and thematic groups. The PRS M&E Unit is responsible for facilitating
links among the other four monitoring structures and for reporting on progress in the poverty reduction
program. However, the role of the Steering and of the Regional Committees needs to be strengthened,
ensuring that they are adequately equipped and fully institutionalized to monitor the implementation of the
PRS. The Statistics Bureau, which has the main responsibility for national accounts, the census and
household surveys, remains under-equipped and poorly staffed. A plan for strengthening it has been
developed, and is being carried out with the support of the PSTAC, as well as assistance from the IDB and
the UNDP and a World Bank Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB) grant. In 2005 the
Government accelerated its efforts to set up a monitoring and evaluation system. Specifically, it: (1)
published the 2002 Census data (2) launched the Household Income and Expenditure Survey which is
expected to be completed by end-2006; (3) started publishing on a semi-annual basis executed current and
capital public expenditures by sector and priority poverty-related programs; and (4) prepared a map
outlining distribution of access to basic services. The IDB, UNDP, DfID and IDA are among those donors
providing support to the Government in these areas.

In the area of local government reform, the Government has disseminated national policies for
implementation by the regional and local authorities and provided technical advice and guidance to ensure
compliance with the laws that govern these entities. Also, the Municipal Services Department was
established in the Ministry of Local Government and Regional Development. The Department oversees
maintenance and development of infrastructure within the six municipalities. Also, the Ministry
coordinated and implemented activities under the Guyana Municipal Governance and Management
Programme, a five-year project to strengthen local governance and management within the municipalities of
Guyana. In addition, in an effort to improve accountability, eight Regional Development Officers were
appointed to monitor and evaluate capital works contracts within the various Regional Democratic
Councils. Despite these actions, the reform of local government has met with some delays due to the
ambitious broader program of reforms that the Government has pursued and the resultant demands on
public sector capacity. To respond to the need for increased selectivity as indicated above and given the
involvement of other donors supporting local government reforms, no specific action in this area has been
included in the follow-on IDA operation.

Broader and Better Provision of Basic Services - Water

The Government has also implemented a major reorganization of the water sector with support of IDA
(PRSC-I) and DfID. Under PRSC I, the Government set up a new legal and regulatory framework through
the passage of a new Water Act, issuance of operating licences for Guyana Water and new regulations, the
establishment of national water quality standards, completion of the merger of the two public water
companies into one (Guyana Water Inc., GWI), tendering of the management contract for the private
operator of GWI and selection of the preferred bidder and agreement on tariff and subsidy adjustments for
2002. Since PRSC I, the reorganization of the water sector has advanced. Private management of GWI is
now beginning its third year of operation. Following an initial disappointing performance and frictions
between the Government, GWI Board and the Management Contractor during 2003 and 2004, the parties
developed, with support from the donor community, a way out of the impasse formalized in a
Memorandum of Understanding in December 2004. Most of the agreements reached have been met and
there is now a shared vision between the Government, GWI Board and the Management Contractor for the


                                                    - 13 -

development of the utility and the sector. GWI is implementing a combined plan to increase revenues and
reduce costs, through a 2005 tariff review, the procurement of a new billing system, improved collection
performance, and reduction in non-revenue water through distribution network repair and rehabilitation.
The Government also launched a program to increase service access, particularly in urban squatter
neighborhoods and rural hinterlands. These efforts and the Government's goal of achieving universal
access to safe water are being supported by the ongoing IDA Water Sector Consolidation Project approved
by the Board in July 2005. Under this Project, it has been agreed that by the end of 2006, the
Government's strategy for the long-term development of the sector will be discussed with IDA ­ with the
involvement and participation of other key donors. The discussion will be focused on the future
management of the utility, the financial sustainability and financing mechanisms and medium ­ term targets
under GWI's operating license.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
         PRSC I supported several actions that were initial steps towards developing more effective
institutions. The follow-on IDA operations are expected to continue supporting this process. Specific
areas where PRSC I has had an impact include: the establishment of HIV/AIDS management unit in the
Ministry of Health; the creation of an education monitoring system that will track progress towards
achievement of the performance targets in education; the establishment of the PCPMU in the Office of the
President, consisting of a Policy Unit and a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to track implementation of the
PRS; the creation of a legal base for improving the procurement and audit systems; and in the water sector
measures taken to establish a legal and regulatory framework and to arrange private management of the
water utility. Also, the broad range of analytical work compiled in preparation for PRSC I and technical
assistance provided by IDA under PSTAC and other instruments (the Japanese Policy and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) grant and a Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB) grant)
served to increase the Govermnment's knowledge about key constraints and potential solutions in the areas
covered by the credit and have helped to build sustainable capacity among relevant ministries and
departments. Notably in this respect is the Government's ongoing strengthening of its poverty monitoring
and evaluation framework and capacities.

         Despite the above, institutional development remains a long-term challenge for the country.
Indeed, progress in some areas was hampered by capacity constraints which resulted in delays in the
implementation of the reform program. While it is expected that, following PRPMO, the institutional
development impact will be substantial, at this time it is rated as moderate.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementation of the set of actions supported by PRSC I was negatively affected by the deteriorating
political and security situation starting in late 2002. Racial tensions and a surge in crime affected the
economy, including fiscal performance and private investment activity, and delayed key reform measures.
Though the political crisis abated in the course of 2003, when the Government and the opposition agreed to
proceed with constitutional and parliamentary reforms, tension between the two ethnically divided, political
parties resurfaced later and has continued to impede the smooth operation of government. In addition, a 11
percent deterioration in the external terms-of-trade due to a cyclical decline in sugar, rice and gold prices,



                                                     - 14 -

the oil price increase in 2005 and 2006, adverse weather conditions (notably the severe floods in 2005) and
the closure of the OMAI mine (the largest in the country) in 2005 adversely affected the dominant
agriculture and mining sectors, and the economy in general.

Some factors have had a positive effect on program implementation. The prospect of the vital sugar
sector's loss of preferential access to the EU market instilled a sense of urgency in the restructuring efforts.
Although the agreed measures relating to the new sugar mill, and on employment and wage policy in the
sugar sector, were implemented with some delay, further actions required for the follow-on operation,
PRPMO, have already been completed. The way the PRSC program was conceived has also helped its
implementation. The technical assistance, both informal and through the parallel TA project, has been
instrumental in helping the Government prepare for the reforms. At the same time, the phasing of the IDA
credits in support of PRS implementation has maintained the financial incentive to continue with the
reforms. Finally, the close coordination between the donors and the resulting joint support for certain key
reforms, notably in the areas of financial management, procurement, fiduciary oversight, the public
investment program and poverty monitoring and evaluation, added to the pressure on the Government to
act.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
        Weak capacity in the public sector, where decision making is highly centralized, has affected the
implementation of the reform program. The Government continues to have problems in recruiting and
retaining qualified professionals in the public sector. Although public service salaries have increased in
recent years, these adjustments have been across-the-board and therefore not adequate to attract and retain
skilled persons in key positions, such as technical staffs in the civil service as well as senior and middle
level management. Delays in the preparation and implementation of a public sector reform program have
affected the ability of the Government to address these issues. Also, as indicated above, the analysis of
progress made in poverty reduction has been hampered by slow advances made in setting up an effective
monitoring and evaluation framework.         After delays in 2003 and 2004, the Government recently
accelerated its efforts in this area.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
        Same as 5.2.

5.4 Costs and financing:
        Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is here defined as the probability that the set of reforms supported by the PRSC program,
and for which PRSC I prepared the ground, will be completed.               The sustainability of the reforms
implemented is rated as likely over the medium-term. Despite some delays in the implementation of the
reforms expected to follow PRSC I, the Government has continued implementation of such reforms and
indeed accelerated it in 2005 and 2006. As evidence of such progress, a follow-on single-tranche IDA
operation supporting the second phase of the PRSC reform program is scheduled to be presented to the
Board in April 2006 (all prior actions have been completed).

The sustainability of the program is subject to the risks associated with it, which are spelled out in the
PRCS I program document and which continue to apply. These include the country's vulnerability to
external shocks (such as a further decline in the terms of trade and floods), the uncertain political
environment in the run-up to general elections due by August 2006 and the capacity constraint in the public



                                                    - 15 -

sector. Political risks for program implementation arise from the social and ethnic tensions that divide the
two main political parties, and have periodically erupted into violence and have hampered the
implementation of reform measures. While this is a difficult risk to mitigate, the donor community,
including the Bank, remains engaged in assisting the Government in improving the dialogue, notably on
issues related to key development challenges, both with the Opposition party as well as with civil society
and NGOs. Institutional risks for program implementation remain due to important capacity constraints in
conceiving, executing, monitoring, and evaluating government programs. To address this risk, the Bank
continues to provide technical assistance for key actions supported by the follow-on PRPMO under the
PSTAC, a Japanese Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) grant (US$595,000) and a Trust
Fund for Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB) grant (USD 285,000) and has closely coordinated with
other donors, in particular the IMF and the IDB, in supporting the implementation of the Government's
reform program. Possible spending pressures from the forthcoming presidential elections and Guyana's
hosting of the 2007 Cricket World Cup are also risks.          The Government's macroeconomic program
supported by the IMF PRGF arrangement and the preparation of five-year PSIPs will help maintain public
finances on a sustainable path. Also, in the past the authorities have demonstrated readiness to adjust
policies to meet the targets in the macroeconomic program, and are committed to make additional
adjustment if the external environment deteriorates.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As indicated above, based on the satisfactory progress made by the Government in sustaining and
advancing the reforms launched under PRSC I, a follow-on IDA one-tranche development policy grant
(PRPMO in the amount of SDR 6.7 million) is scheduled to be presented to the Board in April 2006
(specific details on this operation, including outcome indicators, are available in the PRPMO Program
Document filed in IRIS).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was satisfactory. IDA fundamentally changed its lending strategy for Guyana towards a
focus on supporting the policy and institutional reforms set out in the PRS through programmatic lending
operations. The positive features of the Bank performance for PRSC I are: (1) the significant amount of
economic and sector analytical work to inform the design of reforms covered by the credit; (2) the focus of
the operation on addressing the early stages of PRS reforms, creating the right conditions for effective
government intervention, such as preparation of action programs, implementation mechanisms and a legal
framework; (3) the coordination with the IMF and other donors, which resulted in coherent assistance for
the PRS and joint support for key reforms; and (4) the provision of extensive and well coordinated
technical assistance relating to the preparation for, and implementation of, the PRS program.

7.2 Supervision:
    Although PRSC I was a one tranche adjustment operation in which the agreed policy actions were
    implemented prior to Board presentation, the Bank remained engaged with the authorities in providing
    technical assistance for, and monitoring implementation of, follow-up actions. Also, Bank flexibility
    in the implementation and sequencing of the follow-on measures to take into account capacity
    limitations and unforeseen exogenous issues and events, have been critical for supporting continued
    implementation of the reform program in Guyana.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.




                                                      - 16 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Borrower performance should be judged by the quality
    of the policy framework which the Government adopted. The PRSP, issued in November 2001, was the
    basis upon which PRSC I and the PRSC program was prepared. A great deal of effort had gone into
    it, starting with the preparation of the National Development Strategy a few years earlier.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Based on its performance so far in maintaining a stable
macroeconomic environment and implementing, be it with some delay, its structural reform agenda, the
Government has demonstrated its commitment to implement the PRS and meet the requirements under the
PRSC program. While, as noted above, implementation progress slowed down immediately after PRSC I,
this accelerated in 2005 and 2006, as also noted in the Joint Staff Assessent Note of the PRSP Second
Progress Report (2005). The Government also maintained a high degree of stability in its reform core team
since the disbursement of the PRSC I. Combined with an equal degree of stability of the Bank's own project
team as well as the Government appreciation of the quality of the Bank team, the environment for credit
design, preparation and implementation was conducive to continued Government progress in implementing
the PRS program. Indeed, based on the satisfactory progress made by the Government in sustaining and
advancing the reforms launched under PRSC I, a follow-on IDA one-tranche Development Policy Grant
(PRPMO) is scheduled to be presented to the Board in April 2006.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency for the PRS and PRSC I is the Policy Coordination and Program Management
Unit (PCPMU) at the Office of the President. The PCPMU is charged with (i) coordinating PRS programs
across donors, line ministries and civil society; (ii) identifying constraints and lessons learned in the
implementation of the poverty reduction programme, undertaking policy analysis and proposing
recommendations in improving the framework of programme implementation; (iii) monitoring PRS
structural reforms within the context of the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) and the Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). The PCPMU's performance in coordinating the design and
implementation of PRSC I and follow-on reforms is rated as satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be drawn from the experience with PRSC I and with the continuing
implementation of the Government's PRS program. These have been taken into account in adapting the
content of the follow-on Poverty Reduction and Public Management Operation:

Ø        the timeframe of future operations should be established with care, taking into account capacity
constraints in public service;

Ø        the formal and informal technical assistance provided for the preparation of the PRSC I and for the
PRS implementation have been invaluable to their success. It will be critical that follow-on operations in
support of the PRS program be accompanied by technical assistance in the relevant areas whether through
the PSTAC, a PHRD grant and with help from other donors, and that donors continue to coordinate closely
such technical assistance; and

Ø        future operations should focus on fewer areas and drill down more in these, have fewer trigger



                                                     - 17 -

actions and exclude measures that are expected to be taken as part of other operations, whether by IDA or
other donors.

On the basis of lessons learnt from the implementation of the Government's PRS and the IDA-financed
PRSC I, the Government and IDA have agreed that annual PRSCs do not provide the best instrument to
support Guyana's reform program and that a series of (programmatic) development policy operations,
timed to match the speed of Government's implementation performance, would be better suited to support
the country's development needs and context. Also on the basis of the lessons learnt from PRSC I, the
follow-on PRPMO is concentrated on fewer areas. And technical assistance for the implementation of the
reform measures supported by the PRPMO continue to be provided by IDA through the ongoing Public
Sector Technical Assistance Credit, a Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant
(US$595,000) and a Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB) grant (USD 285,000).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comment's on IDA's portion of the ICR were provided by the Government of Guyana on March 13, 2006,
and have been incorporated into this final version.

                              Partner's Comments for Incorporation into the
          International Development Association's Implementation Completion Report on the
                               Guyana Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit I

On December 17, 2002, the Executive Board of the International Development Association approved a
Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit I (PRSC-I) for Guyana. The Board's approval made it possible for
Guyana to receive a single-tranche adjustment credit of SDR9.1 million (US$12 million equivalent) from
IDA in support of the Government's objectives of poverty reduction.

As outlined in Guyana's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), in November 2001 the Government
undertook fundamental reforms to re-orient its economic and social policies towards poverty reduction,
through a three-pronged strategy: stimulating economic growth, improving the provision of basic social
service, and enhancing governance.

The Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP) to IDA described the economic and social
challenges that confront Guyana and the measures that the Government has taken or intends to take to
address these challenges. The LDP detailed the specific actions that were to be taken in various policy
areas during the reform program starting in 2002.

As noted in the two Progress Reports of Guyana's Poverty Reduction Strategy, Guyana has made good
progress in implementing the PRSP, although there have been shortfalls in some areas, due to capacity
constraints, outflow of skilled workers, domestic instability resulting from an outbreak of crime and
violence in 2002, and significant exogenous shocks. In addition, aid inflows did not match expectations,
partly because the country did not reach the Completion Point under the Enhanced HIPC until December
2003. All actions supported by the PRSC-I were completed prior to its effectiveness. The PRSC program
had four main components, which required actions by the Government in support of four of the seven
PRSP objectives.

The Government's own review is in broad agreement with IDA's assessment. Given the level of detail and
depth provided in the assessment by IDA in previous sections, the Government will limit this discussion to



                                                   - 18 -

general statements about progress made with respect to each PRSC component, or to highlight areas where
there the Government's assessment differs from that of IDA:

Broad-Based, Job Generating Economic Growth

Since 2002, the Government has implemented a macroeconomic program supported by the IMF through a
SDR54.55 million Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement. The last three reviews
under the PRGF have been completed on time and the fifth review under the program was successfully
completed in January 2006.

Despite the maintenance of macroeconomic stability and some progress made in structural reforms, growth
has remained weak. Real GDP growth fell from an annual average of 7 percent during 1991-97 to 0.6
percent during 2000-04. The economy was negatively affected by terms of trade shocks, adverse weather
conditions and the instability that followed the political cycle adversely affected the dominant agriculture
and mining sectors. In addition, macroeconomic performance in 2005 was strongly affected by significant
exogenous shocks that hit Guyana, notably the closure of OMAI, the largest gold mine of the country, the
severe flooding in early 2005 and higher-than-expected oil prices. In particular, the floods affected the
country's most heavily populated areas, having been the worse of the last 100 years (ECLAC assessed the
impact of the floods at 60 percent of GDP). These adverse shocks (anticipated and unanticipated) have led
to some deterioration in macroeconomic indicators in 2005, although the outcomes were broadly in line
with revised expectations under the IMF PRGF program. Waivers for some PRGF performance criteria
and structural benchmarks have been needed in the past, but these were often a reflection of limited
implementation capacity and resulting delays in the implementation of reforms.



Better Investments in Human Capital

Under PRSC-I, the Government developed a Strategic Plan for Education (SPE) for 2003-07 building on
the earlier five-year plan for education that was carried out between 1995 and 2000. The implementation
of the SPE is proceeding satisfactorily.

Under PRSC I, a National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS (2002-2006) was formulated and approved, which
has recently been revised by the Government through a broad consultative process involving key
stakeholders in Government, civil society and external donors and multi-lateral agencies. The Plan will be
submitted to Parliament by mid-2006 for adoption.

In response to the constraints in providing adequate health services, the Government developed the National
Health Plan 2003-2007 which outlines strategies for meeting the health sector goals in the Government's
Poverty Reduction Strategy and the Millennium Development Goals. Since then, progress has been made
in increasing the number of health workers, increasing the spending on essential drugs and medical supplies
by 25 percent from 1998 to 2003, increasing the local production of drugs at reduced cost, and
rehabilitating the Georgetown Hospital.

The Government has undertaken to enhance the capacity of the Ministry of Labor, Human Services and
Social Security (MLHSSS) to strengthen social safety nets. In this context, the Government has recently
adopted and started implementing a time-bound reform program to rationalize and improve the impact and
cost-effectiveness of the social protection programs of the MLHSSS.




                                                     - 19 -

Stronger Public Sector Institutions and Better Governance

The Government prepared a new Audit Act, which was enacted in April 2004. The Act makes the Office
of the Auditor General a semi-autonomous agency responsible to the Parliament. Regulations detailing
rules, policies and procedures regarding the management and operation of the Audit Office and the conduct
of audits were also prepared and were gazetted in July 2005.

Under PRSC-I, the Government agreed to strengthen fiduciary oversight. The three elements of the reform
program are: (i) ensuring effective parliamentary oversight over public finances; (ii) curtailing discretionary
powers of public officials; and (iii) ensuring effective public disclosure of assets of officials. Following
discussions with key stakeholders, the Government has adopted a time-bound action plan for the
implementation of the first phase (January 2006-December 2007) of the reform program and started
implementation.

Furthermore, a new Fiscal Management and Accountability Act was enacted in December 2003 and
program budgeting is being gradually introduced in key ministries. Progress has also been made in
improving public expenditure management with the introduction of a computerized integrated financial
management system (IFMAS) in all Ministries and several agencies.

In the area of public procurement, rules governing public procurement were revised by the 2002 National
Procurement Act, which was subsequently amended by the Tender and Procurement Act of 2003. Since
then, the Government has continued implementation of the procurement reform program. As part of this
reform agenda, accompanying regulations were adopted in December 2004. The aim of the two Acts and
regulations is to make public procurement more efficient, competitive and transparent. Also, standard
bidding documents and evaluation criteria have been developed according to international standards.

Under PRSC I, the Government prepared a monitoring plan for the PRS and established a new Policy
Coordination and Program Management Unit (PCPMU) in the Office of the President. However, given the
lack of adequate data and of an effective poverty monitoring and evaluation framework, progress made in
the analysis of progress made in poverty reduction has not been possible. Since early 2005, the
Government has accelerated its efforts to set up a monitoring and evaluation system, inter alia, through
publishing the 2002 Census data; launching a Household Income and Expendiure Survey; preparing and
publishing a report on executed current and capital public expenditures by sector and priority
poverty-related programs (to be published on a semi-annual basis); and preparing a map outlining
distribution of access to basic services.

In the area of local government reform, the Government has disseminated national policies for
implementation by the regional and local authorities and provided technical advice and guidance to ensure
compliance with the laws that govern these entities. Also, the Municipal Services Department was
established in the Ministry of Local Government and Regional Development to oversee maintenance and
development of infrastructure within the six municipalities. The reform of local government has met some
delays due to the ambitious broader program of reforms that the Government has pursued and the resultant
demands on public sector capacity.

Broader and Better Provision of Basic Services - Water

The Government has also undertaken a major reform of the water sector, including setting up a new legal
and regulatory framework through the passage of a new Water Act, issuing operating licences for Guyana


                                                      - 20 -

Water and new regulations, establishing national water quality standards, completing the merger of the two
public water companies into one (Guyana Water Inc., GWI), and tendering the management contract for
the private operator of GWI and selecting the preferred bidder. Private management of GWI is now
beginning its third year of operation and is satisfactory. The Government has also launched a program to
increase service access, particularly in urban squatter neighborhoods and rural hinterlands.

Concluding Remarks

As mentioned above, the Government's own review is in broad agreement with IDA's assessment. We are
undertaking a reform program that is comprehensive in breadth and far-reaching in its implications to
respond to the economic and social challenges that confront Guyana. Furthermore, the reform program has
the support of the international community, and we are satisfied that significant progress has been made in
implementing the program.

Nevertheless, more remains to be done. As described above, some elements of the reform program have
been slowed or delayed due to capacity constraints, a sometimes difficult political climate and exogenous
shocks. Despite these impediments, the Government remains committed to continuing the implementation
of the policies contained in the reform program.



(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                              GUYANA - POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
                                              POLICY MATRIX




                                                     - 21 -

                                                                  POLICY ACTIONS                                            Overall
                        ACTIONS COMPLETED FOR                       TRIGGERS FOR PRSC-2              CURRENT STATUS         impact
                        PRSC1                                                                                               assessment
                                                     BROAD BASED, JOBS GENERATING ECONOMIC GROWTH
                        Agreement on a macro-economic         Adherence to Program                Fifth review under the
                        program with performance                                                  IMF supported PRGF
                        targets for fiscal and Balance of                                         was successfully          Satisfactory
ACRO                    Payments deficits, monetary                                               completed at end-
    M
                ECONOMY growth (in context of IMF                                                 January 2006.
                        PRGF)
                         Complete overall review of tax       Develop a timetable for the         The review of the tax
                         system and administration with       implementation of findings of tax   system was undertaken.
                         IMF assistance, with a view to:      study.                              Main actions completed
                         ·     Broadening tax base;                                               include: (i) enactment of
                         ·     Reducing rates;                                                    the VAT and Excise
                         ·     Improving tax                                                      Tax legislation (2005)
                               administration, including                                          and subsequent approval
                               enhanced transparency in                                           by Parliament of the
                               the application of the tax                                         implementing
                               system to private                                                  regulations (January
                               investors.                                                         2006); (ii) the
                                                                                                  elimination of the
                                                                                                  Minister of Finance's
                                                                                                  discretionary powers to
                                                                                                  grant exemptions; (iii)
                                                                                                  limit on most tax
                                                                                                  holidays to 5 years; (iv)
                                                                                                  increase in the income
                                                                                                  tax threshold.            Satisfactory

                        Review laws governing mining and      Introduce and pass Amended Forests  The Forestry Law has
                        forestry sectors to ensure that they  Law, after undertaking appropriate  been tabled in
                        provide adequate incentives for       public consultations.               Parliament.
                        investors, as well as sufficient
                        environmental protection. Begin
                        drafting new Forestry Law.            Redraft mining legal framework and  A Strategic
                                                              undertake sector environmental      Environmental
                                                              assessment.                         Assessment of the
                                                                                                  mining sector is being

     NVESTMENT                                                                                    launched. This will be
              I                                                                                   an input to the mining
                                                                                                  bill, which is being
                                                                                                  drafted. Submission to
                                                                                                  Parliament of new
                                                                                                  Mining Bill is a policy
                                                                                                  action for PRPMO-II.




                                                                                - 22 -

       Full environmental impact        Eliminate sugar levy and substitute    The levy has been
       assessment for the new Skeldon   dividend scheme                        eliminated.
       sugar mill and associated land
       development has been conducted.




       Issue tender for construction of Complete agreement between GoG         Done.
       Skeldon sugar mill; agree to     and GUYSUCO on sector
       provide any needed               performance and profitability.
       environmental mitigation for
       new land development affecting
       natural habitats.

       Agreement with Government        Revise current management contract     The new management
       on a three year program to       and shift performance indicators to    contract has 3 elements
       reduce redundant workers and     measures of profitability              in its fee structure:
       to limit salaries and bonuses in                                        contractor's
       the sugar sector.                                                       reimbursable (expatriate
                                                                               related expenses), a
                                                                               fixed fee and a fee tied
                                                                               to success in meeting
                                                                               profit targets.

                                        Amend Cane Payment System Act          Guysuco is seeking to
UGARS                                                                          implement a new cane
                                                                               payment formula that
                                                                               will reduce the
                                                                               payments to cane
                                                                               growers.
                                                                                                         Satisfactory
                                        Complete Environmental Impact          The Environmental
                                        Assessment of Skeldon Mill and land    Management Plan for
                                        development, including an agreed       the Skeldon sugar
                                        Environmental Management Plan,         factory and associated
                                        before signing civil works contract.   canefield expansion has
                                                                               been adopted and
                                                                               satisfactory progress is
                                                                               being made in its
                                                                               implementation.

                                        Base worker remuneration and bonuses   Discussions between
                                        on inflation and productivity gains    Guysuco and the trade
                                                                               union are ongoing.


                                        Develop and implement GUYSUCO          Land divesture program
                                        land divesture program.                has been prepared but
                                                                               land sales are
                                                                               proceeding below
                                                                               expectations.




                                                           - 23 -

                 Formulation and approval of a   Establish management arrangements       Ongoing. The
                 national strategic plan for     for the implementation of HIV/AIDs      Ministry of Health
                 HIV/AIDS.                       program including program               has hired a civil
                                                 execution through multiple              society coordinator
                                                 ministries, NGOs, community             and 11 CBOs have
                                                 groups and civil society                been identified for
                                                 organizations.                          funding under the
                                                                                         World Bank
                                                                                         program.

                 Establish a program             Establish program costing and financial Program costing has
                 management unit in the Ministry protocols.                              been done.
                 of Health (National AIDS                                                Financial protocols
                 Programme Secretariat) and                                              to be established.
                 appoint core staff.
                                                                                                               Satisfactory

                                                 Develop institutional arrangements for  Work has begun
                                                 program monitoring and impact           with the aim of
                                                 evaluation.                             harmonizing a list of
AIDS/                                                                                    measurable
                                                                                         indicators. The
     HIV­                                                                                Ministry of Health is
                                                                                         in the process of
                                                                                         engaging a long
         EALTH
              H                                                                          term consultant to
                                                                                         develop monitoring
                                                                                         and evaluation
                                                                                         capacity for
                                                                                         HIV/AIDS and other
                                                                                         health programs.
                                                                                         Project was
                                                                                         approved in April
                                                                                         2004.

                                                 HIV/AIDS project prepared and           The action plan was
                                                 presented for IDA financing under the   discussed at the
                                                 regional HIV/AIDS APL;                  Thematic group
                                                 -    first year action plan approved;   meeting and
                                                 -   operational manual approved         approved in April
                                                                                         2004.
                                                                                         Operational Manual
                                                                                         approved by
                                                                                         Ministry Policy
                                                                                         Committee.




                                                                     - 24 -

           Develop action plan, including       Expand the coverage of SMIS (School      Government has
           monitoring and incentive             Information Management System) in        made some progress
           mechanism, for reaching PRSP         order to strengthen monitoring &         in expanding SMIS.
           goals in terms of reduced repetition tracking capacity, and equity.
           rates in primary schools, increased
           enrolment in secondary schools,
           reduced overcrowding, reduced
           absenteeism of students and
           teachers, increased non- teacher
           recurrent expenditures, and
           improvements in teacher training
                                                Actively promote stakeholder             About 80% of
                                                participation at the school level        schools have PTS
                                                through the organization and             which meet at least
                                                strengthening of school board or         once a year.
                                                equivalent mechanism.

                                                Construction of new schools /            Over 150 primary
                                                rehabilitation of existing schools       schools were
                                                according to the action plan             rehabilitated at the
                                                                                         cost of more than
                                                                                         US$3.25 million.

                                                                                                                Satisfactory
                                                Increase the number of trained teachers  Training Centers
                                                through pre-service and in-service       established in
                                                training                                 Hinterland Regions
                                                                                         to facilitate training
                                                                                         of teachers using

DUCATION                                                                                 distance education
        E                                                                                methods. The total
                                                                                         number of trained
                                                                                         teachers has
                                                                                         increased from 555
                                                                                         in 2002 to 707 in
                                                                                         2004.

                                                Increase the availability of textbook ks Procurement of
                                                and other learning materials to students textbooks began in
                                                                                         2004 with assistance
                                                                                         of the World Bank
                                                                                         EFA-FTI.


           Design a formula based system for    Prepare and undertake pilot trials in    The formula is
           allocation of financial resources to 6 schools in 2 regions.                  completed. School
           schools.                                                                      Boards are
                                                                                         managing resources
                                                                                         at 3 schools in
                                                                                         Region 2 and 3
                                                                                         schools in Region 4
                                                                                         with preliminary
                                                                                         accounting,

           Complete system design and the       Establish preliminary version of         This has not been
           selection of pilot implementation    accounting, resource transfer, financial implemented
           sites.                               reporting and auditing procedures.




                                                                    - 25 -

                                        STRONG PUBLIC SECTOR INSTITUTIONS AND BETTER GOVERNANCE
                      Prepare draft of new     Enact new Audit Act and begin       New Audit Act was passed by the
                      National Audit Act.      implementing its provisions         National Assembly in April 2004
                                                                                   and implementing regulations were
                                                                                   gazetted in May, 2005.
                      Agree on a program to    Implement agreed programs
                      implement the findings   based on CFAA
                      of the CFAA report       recommendations.
                      (see Annex VIII),
                      including:

                     1. A program to                                               Auditor General's key
                        strengthen the                                             recommendations in the 2004
                        Auditor General's                                          report have been implemented (see
                        Department, with                                           details in see details in PRPMO
                        respect to staffing,                                       Program Document).
                        salaries and
                        training;

                     2. Establishment of                                           First phase of fiduciary oversight  Satisfactory
ANAGEMENT               financial oversight of                                     strengthening program has been
         M              the public sector                                          launched (see details in PRPMO
                        within the existing                                        Program Document).
                        Economic Affairs
                        Committee of the
          INANCIALF     Parliament.
                     3. Analysis of ways to
                        reduce
                        discretionality in 6
                        government
                        agencies;
                     4. Take steps to make     Take steps to integrate capital and IFMAS and BPRS implemented.
                        effective the          recurrent expenditures, and
                        Government's policy    introduce program budgeting in
                        of public disclosure   at least two ministries (GEMP
                        of the financial       program).
                        affairs of by public
                        officials.
                                               Parliament approval of new          A Financial Management and
                                               Financial Administration Act        Accountability Act was enacted in
                                                                                   December 2003.




                                                                            - 26 -

             National Procurement      Pass amended version of           Amended National Procurement
             Act 2002 has been         National Procurement Act.         Act was passed by the National
             passed by the National                                      Assembly in July 2003 and
             Assembly.                                                   gazetted in November 2004.


             Circular No. 0802
             regarding administrative
             procedures has been
             issued by the Ministry of
             Finance.
             Create National           Appoint members of the Public     Members not appointed. The names
             Procurement and Tender    Procurement Committee (PPC)       of the persons for consideration are
             Administration (NPTA)     and its secretariat.              with the Public Accounting
             Secretariat and appoint                                     Committee of Parliament.
             required staff.
                                       Introduce and pass enabling       Not required by the Constitution of  Satisfactory
                                       legislation to operationalize     Guyana.
                                       PPC


                                       Adopt and disseminate new         Regulations were adopted in
                                       rules and regulations to make     December 2004 and disseminated.
ROCUREMENT                             Procurement Act effective.
          P

                                       Prepare and adopt standard        Standard bidding documents were
                                       bidding documents and             completed and disseminated in a
                                       evaluation criteria for both      pilot phase in 2005.
                                       national and regional tenders.

                                       Appoint members of the NPTB.      Board members for National and
                                                                         Regional Tender Boards and
                                                                         Secretariat have been appointed.

                                       Start nationwide training         One round of training program was
                                       program.                          completed in July 2005; another
                                                                         round is being programmed

                                       Start implementation of public    As part of IDB CAS condition,
                                       information system.               procurement discussions will be
                                                                         published on the GINA website.
                                                                         Work is ongoing on an e-
                                                                         procurement system




                                                                   - 27 -

                  Complete revaluation      Issue report of Local               Report completed in 2005 and is
                  of immovable              Government Task Force, and          currently awaiting cabinet's
                  properties in four        hold adequate consultations.        approval.
                  municipalities in
                  Guyana; begin process
                  of incorporating
                  revised valuations into
                  tax rolls.
                  Re-institute the power    Begin revaluation of immovable      Valuation completed in 4
                  to seize and sell real    properties for remaining            municipalities in 2004 ­ Linden
                  property of tax           municipalities.                     and Georgetown ongoing (2005)
                  defaulters (re- institute
                  sections of law 28.01
                  and 28.02 which have
                  been suspended).
                                            Revise LG laws to:
                                             1.   Implement a system of         Directive sent to all NDC's in
                                                  self-accounting where         March 2003 to establish separate
                                                  each local government         bank accounts.
                                                  holds individual accounts.
                                             2.   Allow NDCs to hold
                                                  property users and
                                                  proprietors liable for taxes


OVERNMENT                                   Develop a simple formula-           Valuation for Rating Purposes       Not
         G                                  based system for providing          Amendment Act 2005 assented to      satisfactory
                                            subventions from central            by the President July 2005.
          OCAL                              government to local
              L                             government (LG) units               Municipal and District Council
                                                                                Amendment Bill presented to
                                                                                Parliament in April 2005, now with
                                                                                the Parliament Select Committee

                                            Enforce auditing protocols of       Fiscal Transfer Bill ­ pending the
                                            local government bodies             approval of the Joint Task Force
                                                                                Report

                                            Agree on a mechanism so that        Capacity building workshops
                                            citizens can access the financial   ongoing throughout the
                                            records of LGs and minutes and      NDC's/IMC's in 2006 ­07.
                                            voting records of LG meetings.      Developed improved financial
                                                                                management guidelines for NDC's
                                                                                in 2005.

                                                                                Consultations to be held with
                                                                                stakeholders and Minister. Local
                                                                                Government Regulations require
                                                                                only a Ministerial Order once
                                                                                agreement is reached.




                                                                          - 28 -

                                      Establish a new Policy     PCPMU established and               The PCPMU is now fully
                                      Coordination and           functioning.                        operational.
                                      Program Management
                                      Unit (PCPMU) in the        .
                                      Office of the President,
                                      consisting of a
                                      Monitoring& Evaluation
                                      and Policy units.
                                      Appoint coordinator and
                                      core staff to, inter alla,
                                      oversee implementation
     AND                              and monitoring of the
                                      PRSP.
                                      Agree to carry out         Monitoring plan being               Monitoring plan is being          Satisfactory
                         VALUATION    overall monitoring and     implemented.                        implemented as evidence by:
        ONITORING                 E   evaluation plan (as                                            publication on a bi-annual basis
                 M                    shown in Annex VI),        Implementation of plan with help    of executed current and capital
                                      which includes civil       of external technical assistance    public expenditures by sector and
                                      society participation.                                         priority poverty-related
                                                                                                     programs; publication of 2002
                                      Approve plan to                                                census data; launch of Household
                                      strengthen the Bureau of                                       Income and Expenditure Survey;
                                      Statistics, supported by                                       and preparation of map of access
                                      IDA TAC                                                        to basic services.



                                     Agree with IMF on the       Agree on a mechanism for future     Wage discipline has been          Satisfactory
                                     total amount to be spent    public sector wage adjustments,     maintained and staff recruitment
UMAN                               ESon public sector wages in   and apply to increases for 2003.    has been restricted to essential
    H             ESOURC
                        R            the budget for 2002.                                            services.




                                                                                              - 29 -

                              BROADER AND BETTER PROVISION OF BASIC SOCIAL SERVICES
       Implement new legal         Satisfactory implementation of the Government progress has been
       and regulatory              legal and regulatory framework as  broadly satisfactory (see para 14
       framework through           per the new water act, including   in the document).
       passage of new water act    capacity building for key
       and issuance of             institutions.
       operating license for
       Guyana Water and new
       regulations.

       Establish national water    Maintain pricing and subsidy       Pricing and subsidy agreements    Satisfactory
       quality standards.          agreements so as to achieve 100%   are being observed. Completed
                                   cost recovery for Operation and    review of Georgetown Water and
                                   Maintenance expenditures.          Sewerage Master Plan

       Complete merger of the
       two existing utilities,
       forming Guyana Water.

       Management contract
ATER   for private operator of
    W  Guyana Water has been
       tendered and a
       preferred bidder has
       been selected.
       Tariffs adjusted and
       subsidy levels for 2002
       agreed.
                                   Create Hinterland unit in Guyana   Hinterland Strategy has been
                                   Water and have it in operation     approved, Department established
                                                                      and is in operation.

                                   Implement second phase of water    A program to increase access to
                                   supply program for poor squatter   water services in urban squatter
                                   developments                       neighborhoods and rural
                                                                      hinterland is ongoing. Over
                                                                      40,000 people have benefited
                                                                      form improved services in
                                                                      regions 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and 10.




                                                               - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                                      Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators
                             Indicator                             Projected in PRSC1         Latest estimate       Estimate for 2004
                                                                          for 2003                for 2003


  Population below national poverty line (%)                                33.1                    n.a                      n.a


  Enrolment and literacy
  % of primary school entrants reaching grade 6                             85.7                    88.3                    88.7

  Repetition rate (secondary)                                              11.21/                   11.8                    10.6

  Student/trained teacher ratio (primary)                                   52.1                    51.1                    50.1

  Student/trained teacher ratio (secondary)                                 34.1                    39.1                    40.1

  Gross nursery school enrolment                                             90                      91                      92

  Gross primary school enrolment                                            102                     104                      102

  Gross secondary school enrolment                                           70                      65                      73

  % trained teachers in secondary schools                                    60                     57.1                    54.2

  % trained teachers in primary schools                                      55                      56                     59.4

  Number of CXC passes                                                      55.5                    75.8                    76.3


  Health and nutrition
  Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                              47                      54                      53

  Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000)                                     150                     124                      122

  1-year olds immunized against measles                                     95.5                    95.8                    97.5

  1-year olds immunized against DPT                                         90.8                     91                     92.8

  % of population with access to health service                             93.7                    91.3                    92.8

  % of population with access to adequate sanitation                       89.82/                   55.2                    56.1

  Number of reported cases of AIDS                                          220                     475                      480

  Reported cases of Aids among women (15-45 cohort)                          98                     131                      133


  Water
  % of population with access to safe water4/                               95.0                      ..                     ..

  % of population with access to treated water                             45.13/                   45.1                    46.9

  Domestic households connected to water system                            73,400                 120,072                 125,763

  Distribution network constructed (km)                                     275                     265                      280


  Housing
  House lots distributed                                                   6,200                   4,739                    4916

  Land/house titles distributed                                            10,200                  6,020                   5,003


  Land distribution
  Agricultural leases                                                       310                     785                      n.a

  Business leases                                                           122                     n.a                      n.a


Sources: PRSC 1 (2003) and Guyana PRS Progress Report (PRS PR), 2005
1/ The projection in the PRSC was 12.3. However, the PRS PR has a target of 11.2.
2/ The projection in the PRSC was 90.1. However, the PRS PR has a target of 89.8.
3/ The projection in the PRSC was 60.5. However, the PRS PR has a target of 45.1.
4/ This indicator is not included in the PRS PR, which only includes information for "% of population with access to treated water"
n.a - Not available




                                                                    - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable because this was a single tranche adjustment operation in which all actions were completed
prior to Board presentation.




                                                   - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable because this was an adjustment operation.




                                                 - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               11/09/01                 20     Economists, HD specialists,
                                               environment specialists, poverty
                                               experts, public sector (financial
                                               management, procurement,
                                               other) specialists, sugar sector
                                               expert.


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               10/10/02                 10     Same as above.
               11/19/02

 Supervision
               Between 12/17/02         12     Same as above.                          S               S
               and 1/21/04


 ICR
               3/12/06                   3     Economists.                             S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  19                           150,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       76                           553,000
  Supervision                                 38                           130,000
  ICR                                          3                            18,000
  Total                                     136                            851,000




                                               - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC I), Program Document, November 2002

Poverty Reduction and Public Management Operation (PRPMO), Program Document, March 2006

Guyana Country Assistance Strategy, August 2002

Guyana Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), November 2001; PRS Progress Report 1 and JSA (2004) and
PRS Progress Report 2 and JSAN (2005)

Development Policy Review, June 2003

Public Expenditure Review, August 2002

Country Financial Accountability Assessment, June 2002

Country Procurement Assessment Report, June 1999

Institutional Environment and Public Officials' Performance in Guyana, 2001

Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of Bauxite Mining Reforms in Guyana, January 2004.




                                                   - 37 -

- 38 -

