Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3725-GY 
 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 21, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3725-GY 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 21, 2003, between the COOPERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
October 31 2002 (the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to reduce poverty in the Borrower’s territory (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the credit 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit 
is made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of these 
General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to 
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Bureau of Statistics” means the bureau of statistics of the Borrower 
within the Ministry of Finance; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Local Government Act” means the Local Government Act of the 
Borrower, dated December 4, 1945, as said Act has been amended to the date of this 
Agreement; 
(d) 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(e) 
“Ministry of Health” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; 
(f) 
“Ministry of Housing and Water” means the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Housing and Water; 
(g) 
“Minister of Local Government and Regional Development” means the 
head of the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government and Regional Development within 
the Borrower’s cabinet; 
(h) 
“Municipal and District Councils Act” means the Municipal and District 
Councils Act of the Borrower, Act. No. 24 of 1969, as said Act has been amended to the 
date of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Office of the Auditor General” means the Borrower’s office of the 
auditor general; 
(j) 
“PCPMU” means the Policy Coordination and Program Management 
Unit referred to in Section II. A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(k) 
“PRSP” means Report No. 24172-GUA, the Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper for the Borrower discussed by the Board of the Association on September 19, 
2002; and 
(l) 
“PSCES” means the Borrower’s Parliamentary Sectoral Committee on 
Economic Services. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nine million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 9,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association; (i) deposit in the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
Page  6
-
5
-
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2013 and ending December 15, 2042. Each 
installment to, and including the installment payable on, December 15, 2022 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determi
ning eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of 
the principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph 
Page  7
-
6
-
(a) above falling six months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date April 21, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance  
Ministry of Finance 
Main and Urquhart Streets, 
Georgetown 
 
Cooperative Republic of Guyana 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(592) 226-1284 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/  David de Ferranti 
 
_________________________ 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA 
 
By /s/  Odeen Ishmael 
 
_________________________ 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
Page  12
-
11
-
or worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);  
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
Page  13
-
12
-
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
I. 
Investments in Human Capital
A. 
Health -- HIV/AIDS
1. 
The formulation and approval by the Borrower’s 
Cabinet Subcommittee on Health of a national strategic plan 
(covering the period 2002-2006) for reducing HIV/AIDS in 
Guyana. 
2. 
The establishment of a program management secretariat 
within the Ministry of Health to coordinate the national 
strategic plan mentioned in A.1 above, including the 
appointment of the necessary core staff. 
B. Education
1. 
The development of an action plan, including a monitoring 
and incentive mechanism, to reach the PRSP goals in terms 
of:  (a) reduced repetition rates in primary schools; (b) 
increased enrolment in secondary schools; (c) reduced 
overcrowding of students; (d) reduced absenteeism of 
students and teachers; (e) increased recurrent expenditures 
excluding teachers’ salaries;
 
and (f) improvements in 
teacher training. 
2. 
The design of a formula-based system for allocation of 
financial resources to schools; and in connection therewith, 
the selection of six pilot implementation sites. 
II. 
Strengthening of Public Institutions and Improvement of Governance
A. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
Page  15
-
14
-
1. 
The establishment of a new Policy 
Coordination and Program Management Unit (PCPMU) 
within the Borrower’s Office of the President, headed by a 
coordinator, and consisting of:  (a)  a project coordination 
sub-unit;  (b)  a monitoring and evaluation sub-unit, staffed 
at least with the head of said sub-unit; and  (c) a policy sub-
unit, staffed at least with its head.  Additionally, the 
commitment of the Borrower to staff the monitoring and 
evaluation sub-unit with a communications officer, a lead 
social scientist and two community facilitators by January 
31, 2003. 
 
2.
The agreement by the Borrower’s 
Presidential Secretariat to implement an overall monitoring 
and evaluation plan for the PRSP, including civil society 
participation. 
 
3.
The approval by the Borrower of a plan to 
strengthen the Bureau of Statistics. 
 B. 
Human 
Resources
1. 
The Borrower has reached an agreement 
with the International Monetary Fund on the maximum 
amount to be spent by the Borrower in public sector wages 
in the year 2002. 
 C. 
Procurement
1.  The Procurement Act 2002 (Act No. 6 2002) was passed by the 
Borrower’s National Assembly, assented to by the President 
and published in the Borrower’s official gazette.
 
2. Circular No. 0802 dated August 16, 2002 regarding 
administrative procurement procedures has been issued by the 
Ministry of Finance. 
3. The Borrower has established a National Procurement and 
Tender Administration (NPTA) within the Ministry of Finance 
Page  16
-
15
-
in accordance with the Procurement Act 2002 and has 
appointed the staff required for it to operate effectively.
 
D. Financial 
Management
1.  The draft of the National Audit Act of Guyana 2002 was 
submitted to the Association for review. 
2. The Borrower has committed to carry out a program to 
implement the findings of the financial accountability 
assessment of the Borrower carried out by the Association on 
June 6, 2002, including:  (a)  a program to strengthen the 
Office of the Auditor General, with respect to staffing, salaries 
and training; (b)  the empowerment of the PSCES to oversee 
the public sector’s financial management practices;  (c)  an 
analysis of ways to reduce discretionality in six government 
agencies; and (d)  the steps to be taken to make more effective 
the Borrower’s policy of disclosure of public officials’ personal 
assets. 
 E. 
Local 
Government
1.  The Borrower has completed the revaluation of immovable 
properties in the following municipalities:  Anna Regina, Rose 
Hall, New Amsterdam and Corriverton. 
2.  The Minister of Local Government and Regional Development 
has issued the General Circular of October 10, 2002 to 
reactivate the provisions in the existing laws which allow the 
properties of defaulting tax payers to be sold at auction after 
due process has been observed (the Municipal and District 
Councils Act, Chapter 28:01 and the Local Government Act, 
Chapter 28:02). 
III. 
Expansion and Improvement in the Provision of Basic Services
A. Water
Page  17
-
16
-
1. 
The merger of the two existing water utilities, namely 
Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commissioners 
(GS&WC) and Guyana Water Authority, has been 
completed, and the resulting entity is Guyana Water 
Incorporated. 
2. 
The Borrower has implemented a new legal and regulatory 
framework for the water sector, including the following 
actions:  (a)  the Water and Sewerage Act 2002 has been 
approved by the Parliament and has entered into effect;  (b)  
the by-laws of Guyana Water Inc., have been approved by 
its board of directors and have entered into effect; and (c)  
the operating license effective as of November  13, 2002 
for Guyana Water Incorporated has been issued by the 
Ministry of Housing and Water. 
3. 
The Ministry of Housing and Water has established 
national water quality standards. 
4. 
A preferred bidder for a management contract for a private 
operator of Guyana Water Incorporated has been selected, 
and an invitation to commence negotiations towards an 
agreement on the management contract with said preferred 
bidder has been issued by the Ministry of Housing and 
Water. 
5. 
The tariffs for the water and sewerage service have been 
adjusted and the subsidy levels for 2002 have been agreed 
upon by the Borrower and the Association in the 
“Agreement on Future Tariffs for Guyana Water (and its 
predecessors)” dated December 14, 2001. 
IV. 
Broad-Based, Job-Generating Economic Growth
A. Investment
1. 
An overall review of the Borrower’s tax system and 
administration has been conducted with assistance from the 
International Monetary Fund, aiming at: (a)  broadening the 
Page  18
-
17
-
tax base; (b) reducing tax rates; and (c) improving tax 
administration, including enhanced transparency in the 
application of the tax system to private investors. 
2. 
The Borrower:  (a) has conducted an assessment of the 
existing laws governing the mining sector to determine 
whether they provide adequate incentives for investors, as 
well as sufficient environmental protection; and (b) has 
started drafting revised legislation in the forestry sector to 
address deficiencies previously identified in this sector. 
B. Sugar
1. The Borrower has conducted a full environmental impact 
assessment report for the proposed development of land for 
sugar-cane cultivation and the construction of a new sugar mill 
at Skeldon Sugar Estate, Berbice.  The Borrower has 
committed to fully carry out the Environmental Management 
Plan contained in that report. 
2.  The Borrower has invited bids for the construction of the 
Skeldon sugar mill and has informed bidders of the 
environmental requirements as contained in said environmental 
impact assessment report.  Furthermore, the Borrower has 
committed to a design for the mill that meets or exceeds local 
environmental regulations. 
3.  The Borrower has agreed with the Association on a three-year 
program to reduce the number of redundant workers and to 
limit salaries and bonuses of workers in the sugar sector.
 
