Documunt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 8400
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PREPARATION OF METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
FOR FORTALEZA AND SALVADOR
(LOAN 2193-BR)
FEBRUARY 23, 1990
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and tbe Caribbean Country Department I
This docmet as a resticted dstibuton and may be used by reipkiet ody in the performance of
thi offiial duis Its contes mav not otwise be dislosed without Word Bank auorization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AUMEF Metropolitan  Development Agency  for Fortaleza  (Autarquia  da Regiao
Metropolitana de Fortaleza)
BANDECE     Ceara State Development Bank (Banco do Desenvolvimento do Estado do
Ceara)
BNH         National Housing Bank (Banco Nacional de Habitacao)
CA'ECE      Water Supply and Sewerage Company of Ceara  (Companhia de Agua e
Esgotos do Ceara)
CDU         Urban Development Cc rdination (Coordinaca-o de Desenvolvimento
Urbano - SUDENE)
CEAG        Management Support Center for Small and Medium-sized Firms (Centro
de Assistencia Gerencial para Pequenas e Hedias Empresas)
CEF         Federal Economic Fund (Caixa Economica Federal)
CNDU        National  Urban  Development  Council   (Conselho  Nacional  de
Desenvolvimento Urbano)
CONDER      Company for the Development of the Salvador Hetropolitan Region
(Companhia de Desenvolvimento da Regia-o Metropolitana de Salvador)
EBTU        Brazilian Urban Transport Company (Empresa Brasileira de Transporte
Urbano)
FUNSESCE    Social Works Agency of Ceara (Fundacao do Servico Social do Ceara)
1CM         (State) Value Added Tax (Imposto sobre a Circulacao de Mercadorlas)
IPTU        (Municipal) Urban Property Tax (Imposto Predial e Territorial Urbano)
MDU         Ministry  of Urban  Development  and Environment  (Minfstdrio do
Desenvolvimento Urbano e Meio Ambiente)
MHU         Ministry  of Housing, Planning  and Environment  (Minist6rio  de
Habitaga-o, Urbanismo e Meio Ambiente)
MINTER      Ministry of Interior (Ministerio do Interior)
KHF         Fortaleza Metropolitan Region  (Regia-o Metropolitana de Fortaleza)
RMS         Salvador Metropolitan Region  (Regia^o Metropolitana de Salvador)
SDU         Secretariat of Urban Development (formerly MINTER - currently MHU)
SUDENE      Superintendency   for   the   Development   of   the   North-East
(Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste)
SUTRAB      Bahia Labor Superintendency (SuperintendOncia Baiana do Trabalho)
For Currency Conversion Table please refer to Part III



MRE OFFICIL UEONLy
TI WOtLD BANK
Wash#nton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oprawwi IvAhituw
February 23, 1990
OEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT% Project Completion Report on Brazil - Preparation of
Metropolitan Development Programs for Fortaleza and
Salvador (Loan 2193-BR)
Attached, foz information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Brazil - Preparation of Metropolitan Development
Progr _  for Fortaleza and Salvador (Loan 2193-BR) prepared by the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Yves R,vani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the pefformance
of their official dutis Its contents may not othenise be discsed without Word Bask autbaorition.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
PREPARATION OF  METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
FOR FORTALEZA AND SALVADOR
(LOAN 219°-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface ....... *.............................................              i
Evaluation Summary l....................................*....... 
PART I.  PROJECT REVIE  FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ................           1
Project Identity ......................1
Background .........................1
Project Objectives and Description .........................           2
Project Design and Organization ........................               2
Project Implementation and Results ....................                3
Financial Performance and Disbursements ........S.... lb..             5
The Fiuancial Impact of Inflation  ..........................          7
Performance on Cost Recovery ......                                    7
InstitutioLal Performance 7        .......              . .....        7
Performance on Procurement and Reporting                               8
Bank Performance ............. *......          ......                 9
Performance of Consultants        ....    .........      ...           9
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW PROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...........           9
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................12
Project Timetable  .........................................    12
Ffinal Project Costs              13.*0                               i
Sources of Financing ...                                    ....      14
Key Project Data ...........................................    15
ANNEX I.  Letter to SUDENE ........                   ..............    16
ANNEX II. Comments From the Borrower ...........................    17
This document has a  trct dstibuton a   may be wed by neinets ony die peformanc
of their ofAcW dute Its cwtents may not otherwbe be dicksed wih  Wodd Bank auoatinon.



Preparation of Metropolitan Development Programs
For Fortaleza and Salvador
(Loan 2193-BR)
1'ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
P.ACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for an engineering loan
for the Preparation of Metropolitan Development Programs in Fortaleza
and Salvador in Brazil, for which Loan 2193-BR in the amount of US$8 9
million was approved on August 3, 1982. The loan vas closed on June 30,
1985, 18 months behind schedule. Out of the origiual loan, the unused
portion corresponding US$3.25 million, was cancelled in October 1986.
The last disbursement was on April 25, 1986.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations
Division of Country Department 1 in the LAC Region (LA1IE). The
Borrower provided comments, attached as Annex II to this report.
Attempts to obtain some statistical data requested in a letter dated
January 16, 1987 to SUDENE (the Borrower), were unsuccessful.
Preparation of this PCR was carried out during the latter half of
1'Y89, and is based, inter alia, on the President's Report (no SAR was
prepared); the Loan and the two Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and Borrower; the above-mentioned
comments from the Borrowers and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
BRAZIL
Preparation of Metropolitan Development Programs
for Fortaleza and Salvador
(Loan 2193-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UVALV"NSuR
Obiectives
The Project's main objectives were two-fold: (a) to prepare development
programs and investment projects for the Fortaleza and Salvador metropolitan
regions which would be submitted for financing to the Bank; and (b) to strengthen
the regional metropolitan planning agencies in order to prepare them for the
execution of larger scale investment projects. Such metropolitan development
programs would have as objectivess (a) to provide or improve housing and urban
Infrastructure and services; (b) to support, complement and induce desired
patterns of metropolitan development; (c) to generate employment and improve
incomes, especially for the urban poor; and (d) to strengthen the institutions
responsible for the planning, administration and finarnial management of urban
metropolitan region development (see para 3 of PCR).
Implementation Experience
The Anstitutional and financial arrangements for the operation were quite
complex for such a small loan, and involved a variety of agencies at the federal
(Ministry of the Interior/Undersecretariat of Urban Development - MINTERJSDU,
SUDENE)1, state (CONlER and the other entity in Bahia, AUMEP and three other
institutions in Ceara) and municipal (Salvador and Camacari in Bahia and
Fortaleza and Caucaia in Ceara) levels. The participation of such a large number
of agencies complicated project administration, especially in Ceara 'Where the
relatively greater responsibilities of AUMEF, (as compared with COlDER's) was
not matched by an adequate management capacity to monitor and coordinate the
other state and local government institutions involved in subproject execution
(para 4). The participation of STUDIEM, moreover, led to excessive delays in the
processing of withdrawals and other implementation delays, and contributed
substantially to a loss in the real value of project resources, because of high
inflation (paras 7, 18).
Another important difference- unlike aetropolitan Salvador, which received
more timely financial support from the state Government of Bahia, Fortaleza
*         experienced chronic local counterpart funding difficulties and associated delays,
throughout the project execution period, and hence the need to extend the loan
completion date. The main problem can be summarised as followst (a) the
relatively lower commitment of the state government (as compared with that in
Bahia) to the preparation of a larger metropolitan investment preogram for Bank
consideration and weaker political support from the federal government; (b) the
greater local priority given to emergency drought-related measures, and the
negative impact of the drought on state revenues; and (c) delays in the provision
of funds for neighborhood upgrading investments by the National Housing Bank
(BNE); and (d) the relative weakness of AUMHF (paras. 7-8).



- ili -
Two additional problems affected overall project implementations (a) The
general inability of SUDENE to coordinate and supervise the project locally as
the agent of MINTER/SDU (para. 21); and (b) a lack of continuity. A new officer
Was obliged to take over the project without having had any previous familiarity
with it, shortly after loan signing, (due to the departure from the Bank of the
staff member originally responsible for the operation) (para. 27).
Results (paras. 10-12)
In Salvador 60S of the project components were satisfactorily completed
by Closing Date. In Fortaleza severe drought conditions afflicted much of the
Northeast between M97O and 1983, atn resulted in sharply increased migration to
the Fortaleza metropolitan area, further straining its already deficient
intrastructure, especially in low-income peripheral neighborhoods, and generating
additional druand for employment. At the State Government request five of the
original fifteen subcomponents (aero-photographic survey, market gardens, support
to micro-enterprises, sanitary land-fill and septic tanks) were dropped and
substituted by other interventions (beach front development, water standpipes
and street paving because they were labor intensive (standpipes and street
paving) or were intended to support informal sector activities. In the former
case, nine of the subproject's eleveo subcomponents were completed as originally
designed and a larger investment project was, in fact, prepared and subsequently
funded by the Bank. Against an appraisal estimate of US$25.1 million, the
project was closed with final costs of US$11.5 million (paras. 13-17).
sustainabilita
A specific operation (Loan 2681-BR) for metropolitan Salvador was later
approved by the Bank in April 1986 and is presently in execution, but no such
project has been presented for Fortaleza.
Findings and Lessons Learned
LA  general project objectives were met in Salvador.   The external
environment (national macroeconomic problems, crippling multi-year drought, and
inadequate federal government political support) significantly added to the local
problems faced by Fortaleza. The exrperience of Salvador, also suggests that
engineering loans can be an extremely useful means for supporting the preparation
of investment projects, testing new approaches, and creating or strengthening
the institutional capacity required for undertaking larger initiatives. Given
these circumstances, noted above, project performance can be judged, on the
whole, to have been satisfactory.
The project's principal lessons can be sa-arized as followst (i) the need
to design simpler institutional and financial arrangements for operations of this
nature, especially In highly inflationary situations such as that prevailing in
Brazil in the early 1980's, where any delay in the transfer of funds -- when
uncorrected for inflation -- can result in a substantial loss in the real value
of such resources; (ii) the need to carefully appraise ex-ante and/or provide
adequate technical assistance and training to agencies such as SUDENE if they
are expected to assume important coordination and/or supervision roles in project
implementation; (iii) the need to maintain the continuity of Bank supervision
to the extent possible.



LAIL
PREPARATION OF METROPOLITAN DEVILOIPHN? PROGRAMS FOR
FOTALUSA AND SALVADOR   (LOAN 2193-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
Project Identity
1.          This is a project completion report for a Bank Loan for
Preparation of Metropolitan Development Programs for Fortaleza and Salvador
(Loan 2193-BR), prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Country Department
I (Brazil), Infrattructure and Energy Operations Devision in the urban
subsector.
Background
2.          More than 75 percent of Brazil's population now lives in urban
centers, and like in other countries with annual growth rates of urban
population in excess of 4 per cent, the delivery of urban services and
infrastructure in Brazilian cities has been unable to keep pace with the
potential demand. Moreover, many city plans prepared in the late 1960's and
early 1970's, lacked the financial resources and institutional means to
implement them. The urban poor in particular, have had only very limited
access to such services and limited opportunities for gainful employment. In
the less urbanized North-East region, the poorest in Brazil, where
nevertheless some 51 percent the population live in urban areas, urban poverty
is particularly acute witn the iazgest conce.tratiOn  in tbhe three
metropolitan regions of Salvador, Recife and Fortaleza. In 1980, the per
capita income of the state of Ceara (capital Fortaleza), at approx US$707, was
only 34 percent of the national average, while Bahia's (capital Salvador) at
US$1,148, was 56 percent the national average. Ceara is the fourth poorest,
and Bahia is the richest among the nine states of the North-East region.
3.          During the period of project preparation and negotiations (1981 -
June 1982), Brazil was experiencing the most severe economic recession in its
recent history. Industrial production, which fell by 10.2 percent in 1q81,
and the North-East region were particularly hard hit. The North-Eastern
metropolitan areas, where most of the region's industry ib concentrated, would
have proved to be appropriate instruments for a policy of consolidating an
urban contribution to economic recovery. This approach was supported by the
Ministry of Urban Development's (MDU) own "Metropolitan Regiou' program which
*         aimed to provide infrastructure and services to the three metropolis and
stimulate employment and income creation within them. The first Bank
supported project of the metropolitan derelopment program to be appraised (in
*         October/November 1981) was that of Recife (Loan 2170-BR).  Since Fortaleza and
Salvador were part of the same Government program, but were both less advanced
in project preparation, it was decided to proceed with an engineering loan in
order to give time and support to prepare for larger investments subsequently



-2-
Prolect Obiectiest mid Deacritie
4.          The project's main objectives were two-folds a) To prepare
development programs and investment projects for the two metropolitan regions
which were later to be submitted for financing by the Bank; and b) To
strengthen the metropolitan region planning agenciea of Fortaleza (AUMNF) and
Salvador (COMDER) to prepare them for the execution of larger scale investment
projects.
Both the Fortaleza and Salvador sub-projects included components in the
following areas,
a) Institutional DeveloMent - including detailed investment and
engineering studies, tecbhical assistance in financial and econcmic
analysis for project preparation, and administrative and financial
management; income aad employment generation studies and pilot programs;
b) Employment Generatinn - including support to informal sector and
micro- enterprises, market gardens (Fortaleza) and child care centers
(Salvador);
c) Pilot Civil Works - iucluding upgrading of low income settlements,
metropolitan infrastructure (Fortaleza only), Loing alternative
technologies, innovative institutional arrangements, and an integrated
approach to urban development.
The components chosen reflected the metropolitan areas' priorities for a
larger investment program. Moreover, the pilot civil works were an integral
part of the preparation of feasibility studies to test methods, technologies,
and institutional arrangements to execute more important civil works
investments.
Project Design and Organisation
S.          Project design was influenced by the institutional arrangements
for the urban sector, which have generally been complex, and have undergone a
number of changes in Brazil. (These changes are sumarised in Part II of this
report.) The project conceived a complex institutional arrangement for each
city which was to prove to be an obstacle to effective financial management
and efficient disbursements of project funds. At the federal level, project
coordination and supervision was shared by SDUININTER and SUDENE. Overall
project management in Fortaleza and Salvador was the direct responsibility of
AUNEF and CONDBR respectively. For the Institutional Development components
in Salvador, CONDER was also the executing agency. In Fortaleza, on the other
hand, AUMEF was either solely or jointly the executing agency for all
components, in retrospect an unwise assignment of responsibility in view of
AUMEPFs limited experience. In addition, four sectoral state entities (Bahia
- SUTRAB; Ceara - CAGECE, FUNSECE, CGW! and four municipalities (Bahia -
Salvador and Camagari; Ceari - Fortaleza and Caucaia) acted as executing
agencies for specific components. The involvement of twelve agencies for such
a small project made its orerall managemeat extremely difficult, especially in
Portaleza where the greater responsibilities shouldered by AOHBF (compared to
those of CONDER) were not matched by its ability to coordinate the actions of
other agencies within the Metropolitan Reglon of Fortaleza.



6.          A equally complex flow of funds vas conceived which resulted in
serious delays in processing loan disbursements and federal counterpart
funding. With annual Inflation already in excess of 200 percent in the early
years of implementation, these delays led to a loss of real value of the funds
to the project and also caused serious cash flow difficulties for the state
governments (particularly in Ceara). The already weak capacity for
counterpart funding in Ceara was thus further undermined.  Federal government
funds suffered unpredictable disbursements, delays that became critical as
state funds became unavailable. In retrospect, a fuller study of the
condition of state and municipal finances (particularly in Ceara) might have
brought out more clearly the constraints imposed by lack of counterpart funds
(in Fortaleza especially).
Prolject Iuzlemntation and Results
7.          The project start-up, due for October 1982, only occured in April
1983, after newly elected state governors haC taken office. The project was
to be completed by Dec 31, 1983, but accumulaced delays led to requests for
two loan extensions.  The final loan cl  'Ag was June 1985.  By that date,
only 60 percent of Salvador's sub-project ar;d 32 percent of Fortaleza's had
been completed. Given the electoral events of the period, the severe economic
recession and the drought crisis in Cear6 - conditions that were known at the
time of appraisal - the original time schedule of the project was unduly
op,imlstic. Delays in project execution during the state election campaign up
o November 1982 and the last period of the outgoing state governments
themselves caused the project to fall six months behind schedule. While Bank
staff, at the time of appraisal, appeared to be aware of the potential for
delay arising from these events, the implementation schedule did not reflect
this.
8.          Additional delays were accumulated by the slow processing of
disbursement requests (especially by SUDENE). This, with high inflation
devaluing the cruzado value of the reimbursements, had a particularly serious
impact on the project from early 1984 onwards. The difficulties were
compounded by the lack of BNH funds for the project during the November 1983 -
February 1984 period and delays in MINTER's own budget allocation during this
period of fiscal constraint. In the state of Ceara, the pressure upon already
precarious state finances was increased by the serious drought affecting the
region from 1979 to 1983. The shortage of state funds resulted in the
dropping of the important components of the Fortaleza sub-project such as the
Aerophotographic Survey, Solid Waste Disposal and Support to Micro-Enterprises
and the reduction of the scope of others such as Cadastral work in the
municipalities and Upgrading. The Market Gardens component, was perhaps the
most direct victim of the drought.
9.          The poor performance at the beginning in Fortaleza, in contrast to
the early progress made in Salvador, has to be explained by strictly local
factors since both cities were subject to the constraints deriving fror.
Brazil's macro-economic crisis. Firstly, and perhaps the most importunt of
these, was the severe drought from 1979 to 1983, which devastated the entire
state of Cear& and beyond. Hard hit too was the city of Fortaleza itself;
while the drought encroached upon the ursan periphery, the city had to receive
a massive flux of impoverished refugees fleeing its worst effects in the
interior of the State. ICM revenues lost through the drought's impact upon
agricultural and industrial production worseaed already weak state finances in



- 4 -
Ceora. Taz effort, even In normal years had been notably weak. Secondly, an
important factor affecting the performance of the Fortaleza sub-project vas
that discretionary federal grants through MSNTER were less forthcoming for
Crari up to early 1984 as it was the only state in the North-East region that
did not support the candidacy of the then Mnlister of the Interior for the
Presldential succession. Thirdly, the relatively lack of experience of
tortaleza's metropolitan development authority ADMYI, correctly recognized as
a p:oject risk in the President's Report, was to constrain its ability to
effectively coordinate metropolitan programs in spite of the high quality
technical work in metropolitan planning that it event'ially produced.  AMEF's
weakness was not in its technical and professional werk which, with the help
of the project, attained a high standard, but in its inability to mobilize
support for its actions within the state government.
10.         Pilot Programs of Civil Works and Znfrastructure  While the pilot
program of upgrading low Income areas In Salvador and Cama;arl was progressing
quite well, a similar program in Fortalaza was encountering serious
difficulties. In June 1984, the CNDU (on behalf of the borrower, requested a
reallocation of loan funds from pilot programs in Fortaleza that were no
longer considered priority, to a series of componentt more relevant to the
city's needz resulting directly from the drought crisis. The Bank agreed to
this request and in June 1984. the project description was amended to include
the followings
a) vater supply compouenLs In low income areas through the construction
of simple, low cost wells and storage tanks;
b) labor intensive road paving programs to generate employments
c) constzuction of social centers in los income areass
d) development of the informal sector;
e) comercial and recreational facilities for low income families.
The Bank considered these proposals technically sound, cost effective and
economically justified. Loan funds were accordiingly reallocated to reflect
these changes in project scope. By January 1985, however, project execution
for the even for the revised pilot program in Fortaleza was severely delayed
for lack of counterpart funds from the State of Ceari and the Federal
Government even though the worst pressures on them had eased off by that date.
11.         Completed Components  For the Salvador sub-grolect, nine
components were fully completed with positive results and two were only
partially completed. Of the latter, Municipal Modernization suffered from a
lack of financial resources, primarily as result of an inadequate allocation
of funds. No major effort was made by the local administration to obtain
financial resources since it was at the end of its mandate. The other
uncompleted component Informal Sector Support. suffered from deficient market
and demand studies. In addition, there was a lack of community participation.
Thus, when the laundry sub-component was not operating successfully, no
consultation was made to the commnity regarding what alternatives might be
adopted. Nevertheless, there was an increase in productivity of laundresses
as well as an overall improvement In health and working conditions. For the
Construction Job Support Program, targets were actully exceeded because of
the increase in demand. While the Pilot Civil Works in Salvador and Camacari
were both fully completed with positive results, one may conclude, in
retrospect, that more emphasis could have been given to community



participation. This could have Included civic sanitary education programs,
and better information on the conservation and maintenance of the facilities
put In place. Such maintenance b2s been wanting In the Ant8nio lalblo area
o,f Salvador, for example.
12.         Te. revision of the Portalexa sub-prolect resulted In five of the
original fifteen components of the original appraisal proposal being dropped
and new ones substituted.1   With the concurrence of the Bank, these were
replaced by three new components, namely the Beach front Development at the
'Praia do Puturol, Water Standpipes and Street Paving (both the latter In low
income areas). The quite different profile of the Fortaleza sub-project that
resulted at completion from that which was conceived at appraisal, does not
allow a meaningful assessment of the achievement of the physical targets
initially set. Although site inspections were not made for the benefit of
this PCR, SUDENE reports Indicate that works were completed satisfactorily and
to a high standard. The water standpipes, although in keeping with the city's
imuediate needs, suffered from a lack of maintenance as the local water
Company CAGECE refused to accept the respousibility for the operation and
maintenance of other than conventional piped systems. On the other hand,
institutional development components, especially strengthening the capacity of
AUnEF to plan for the metropolitan area and prepare a metropolitan project was
substantially achieved.
is.         The Fortaleza subshoject showed, however, a significant deviation
from its original intent when the Employment and Income component of Suinort
to Micro Enterprises was dropped (after a two year delay in signing the
necessary convOnio between AUMEF and CEAG) and replaced by the Beach front
Development at the "Praia do Futuro'. Ostensibly designed to Increase
employment through providing 74 now stalls for beach -endors, the provision of
1.8 km of infrastructure along the beach front at the *Prais do Futuro* was to
have a greater impact upon real estate values (without cost recovery from the
beneficiaries having been measured so far) through opening up tbho
possibilities for higher Income urban development In that area than upon jobs
there. Upon completion, the new stalls began to fall into a state of abandon
and disuse, since there was little demand for the kind of semi-informal
employment foreseen in a residential beach area beginning its gentrification
process. A greater commitment by the Ceard state authorities to project
objectives and a closer supervision by the Bank could, in retrospect, have
helped ensure that revisions of components are consistent with the project'e
original intent.
Financal Performance and Disbursements
14.         Against an appraisal estimate of US$25.1 million, the final costs
of the project were US$11.5 million.   The significant cost underrun (only 46
percent of the total foreseen at appraisal) was mostly due to the devaluation
of the real value of nominal cruzado expenditures by the time they were
reimbursed because of high inflation. The table In the annex gives details of
the project's financial performance.
I Those dropped weret Aero-photographic Survey, Market Gardens, Micro-
Enterprises, Sanitary Landfill, and Sanitation (Septic Tanks).



-6-
15.         There were considerable delays In loan disbursements due, in part,
to the shortage of counterpart funds in Fortaleza and the slow processing of
requests for reimbursements. The devaluation of the dollar value of the
cruzado amounts to be paid also contributed to the slow rate. As a result of
this, on April 5, 1984 CNDU requested an extension of loan closing to June 30,
1985 and an izacrease of disbursement percentages from 35 percent to 65 percent
in order to complete the execution of the project and to fully disburse the
loan..  The Bank accordingly amnded the Loan Agreement on June 26, 1984
effective (retroactively) April 1, 1984. After this adjustment, the rate of
disbursement accelerated. In FY83 and FY84, the rate of disbursement averaged
US$0.22 million per quarter; for the first quarter of FY85, the rate increased
US$0.63 million which was a significant improvement, due largely to improved
performance in Salvador.
16.         In September 1984, it was agreed with CNDU, SUDENE, and the State
of Ceara that the State would make US$1.0 million of its funds in BAINDCE
(State Development Bank) available to ALUM, as a revolving fund to anticipate
and be replenished by Bank disbursements. Severe constraints upon the
finances of the State, however, combined with a higher State priority for
uaasures needed to combat the drought, did not allow the measure to be put
into effect.
17.         In September, 1984, MINTER also requested an incrvase In the
initial deposit In the Special Account from US$0.6 million to US$1.2 million
and reallocation of loan funds. The Bank accordingly amended the Loan
Agreement on October 19, 1984. However, through the lack of countersignature
by the Brazilian Government, the increase in the Special Account was not put
Into affect. The final disbursement took place May 2, 1986, resulting In only
63.5 Jrcent of the loan being disbursed and the undisbursed balance (US$3.25
million) was cancelled on October 10, 1986. For details of disbursements, see
the relevant table in the Annex to this report.
18.         Sources of Finance As has already been mentioned, the flow of
funds was extremely complex and involved too many intermediaries. This caused
major delays of up to six months in processing disbursement requests. In
fact, the principal cause for these delays was SUDENE's slowness in dealing
with the disbursement requests. There were serious delays in counterpart
funds being made available by BNH, Federal Government and the State of Ceara.
More than anything else, the lack of timely counterpart funds was the major
cause of delays in project execution in Fortaleza. Nevertheless, during
1985186, a convOnio between ALEF and )DU, and special transfers to the state,
considerably improved the performance of counterpart funding in Ceara, which
was eventually to exceed those of Bahia. This result is surprising in view of
the consistent reports of difficulties with state counterpart funds reported
In Ceari. The State of Bahia, on the other hand, provided counterpart funds
reliably throughout project Implemtation and even made up for lack of funds
from BI and the Federal Government. This was to contribute greatly to the
success of the Salvador sub-project. The commitment that it represented was
the main reason for proceeding with the Salvador Metropolitan Project. In the
case of Fortalexa, the lack of such a commitment in the early stages was one
of the principal reasons for there not being a similar follow on project In
Fortaleza.



The Fivancial Impact of lflautin.
19.         Whlle the project was being prepared and appraised (1981-1982)
annual ilation in Brazil was already running at 100 percent per annum.
Durlng each of the three years of implementation, it was consistently in
excess of 200 percent. To stimulate exports, the main thrust of the
government's macroeconomic policy during this period, the national currency
was devalued at a greater rate than that of domestic inflation, by a total of
2,938 percent between August 1982 and June 1985. Over the same period,
inflation reached 2,024 percent. At the time of board approval (August 1982)
the exchange rate was Cr$189 - US$1.00; this had reached Cr$5,742 - US$1.00 by
Completion.
20.         In spite of the fact that rising inflation was already evident at
the time of appraisal, the project's financial plan made no special allowance
for the erosion of the dollar value of the cruzeiro balances of the project
expenditures. On the contrary, the lengthy and complex flow of funds was to
exacerbate these losses by providing for many opportunities for delays in
processing loan disbursements to occur.  The reimbursement of vouchers paid
were converted into US$ dollars at the rate of exchange of the date of the
voucher. By the time the claim had been reimbursed (say, sixty days later),
the dollar value of the nominal cruseiro amount would have been devalued by 30
percent. Daily cruzeiro devaluations meant that the longer the delays, the
fewer dollars were needed to reimburse the cruseiro value spent. There were
two results of this process. Firstly a slowing down of loan disbursement as
surplus dollars built up in the project account, and secondly, local
governments faced a heavy financial cost in having to finance contracts while
awaiting reimbursements.
Performance on Cost Recovery
21.         Cost recovery of the upgrading program in Salvador was
successfully achieved by adjusting municipal property taxes. In Fortaleza,
betterment taxes were to have been levied upon beneficiaries of real estate
value gains, although no reports are available of the amount collected to
date. Similarly, the impact upon IPTU collection in the municipalities of the
RMF which expanded their cadastres (Aquiras, Maranguape, Pacatuba and Caucaia)
has yet to be studied. Costs were also to have been recovered through the
rents collected for shops located in the Service Center of Fortaleza. Other
components did not provide for direct cost recovery.
Institutionsl Ni_formance
*22.        Federal Level Overall project execution supervision and quality
control was the responsibility of SUDENE acting as agent of SDIUIMINTER.
SJUDEN's Coordination of Urban Development (CDU) was to undertake the work.
The performance of the CDU itself was disappointing and its staff and
management did not have the skills and experience required for this important
supervision function. Difficulties of integrating their work into the
activities of the teams in the respective states meant that the limited
technical support available from SUDENE was almost completely dissipated. In
the areas of project management, budgeting and accounting, the contributions
of SUDENE and CNDU were particularly wanting, and considerably worsened
project delays. Despite these problems being evident during project
implementation, the government showed itself unwilling to modify the



- a -
Institutional arrangements. furthermore, there was a considerable reluctance
by these agencies, especially CNDU, to change policies In the light of
Brazil's debt crisis and the deepening economic recession at the time.
Nevertheless, with Bank support, the focus shifted towards seeing urban
invesetmts as part of the national adjustment and recovery program for the
Brazilian economy.
23.         Local Level AUMEF and CONDER were responsible for the direct
management of the project, including the adherence to timetables and budgets,
production of designs and contracts, and ensuring the satisfactory execution
of the works and programs. This was a function that CONDER exercised With
considerable success, an experience that was noticeable lacking in AUMEF. The
execution of specialized works was to be carried out by private or public
companies such as consulting firms, contractors, public utilities or
municipalities. The municipality of Camagari (N(S) clearly demonstrated its
effectiveness in undertaking works of this kind.
24.         The project was not only to be an instrument for the preparation
of future metropolitan investment projects, but it also aimed to train the
institutions that would be responsible for complex tasks of their execution
and management. CORDER had the financial instruments, legal authority,
political power and management capacity for carrying out a project at the
scale of the metropolitan region. The institutional development component was
intended to strengthen this capability; it would test for the effectiveness of
the mechanisms for coordination, methodologies and work programs, principally
to provide technical assistance to RMS municipalitioa and to specialize its
own staff in specific areas of expertise. In this respect, skills within
CONDER to prepare components and undertake the appropriate economic and
financial evaluations and analysis of costs developed notably during
implementation. CORDER, during project implementation, was able to
demonstrate its capacity to effectively manage a metropolitan development
program.
25.         For AUMEF, the institutional development component was to
strengthen the legal, financial, organizational and administrative base,
including the development of planning tools and studies for future projects to
be carried out under its coordination and supervision. The technical capacity
of its staff improved considerably over project implementation and it was able
to perform efficiently in the preparation and evaluation of technical
proposals. The work done by AUMEP in designing the metropolitan plan of
Fortaleza was of a high standard. At the same time, however, AUMEF was unable
to develop an effective capacity to monitor and coordinate the investments of
various agencies in the metropolitan area. The sub-project objective to
enable AUMEF to implement the metropolitan plan would have been better
achieved had the State of Ceara been more willing to underwrite such a
coordination role for AUMEF through both financial and political support.
Performance on Procurement and Reportina
26.         Given the small size of contracts for civil works, equipment and
consultancy services, LCB procedures were used throughout and SUDEE was
responsible for reviewing procurement on behalf of the Bank. On the whole,
procurement for the project was satisfactory.



- 9 -
27.         While there were initial delays in progress and audit
reports from SUDENE, by early 1984, the reporting quality and timing had
improved. Throughout project implementation there were no major issues
regarding reporting requirements and SUDENE handled this responsibility
satisfactorily.
Bank Performance
28.         The changeover of responsibilities for the project within
the Bank contributed to delays in project execution. The project
officer responsible for appraisal through board presentation left the
Bank, and the new project officer had to take over without being able to
benefit from that previous experience. While it may have been
advantageous to have had more Bank staff for supervision especially in
Fortaleza, the average coefficients for supervision (2.3 missions and
13.25 staff-weeks per year) compare favorably with Bank-wide averages.
SUDENE was entrusted with the responsibility for supervision and
procurement as they wanted to be. However, the CDU in SUDENE simply did
not have the experience and quality staff to do the job. In retrospect,
overall tighter control by the Bank was needed because of SUDENE's own
weakness in the areas of project management, budgeting and accounting.
As institutions become stronger at the state level (as in the case of
CONDER), these functions can be delegated to the responsible state
agencies.
29.         Supervision missions devoted approximately twice as much
time to the Salvador sub-project as to Fortaleza. This was the correct
emphasis to allow the missions to concentrate their efforts on where
they were most likely to lead to success. Had more time been spent of
Fortaleza, it is possible that the technical level of the teams there
would have reached the same levels as in Salvador, but the overriding
constraint of lack of State Government support -would have remained the
same.  Throughout the implementation process, the Bank found itself
under considerable pressure to proceed with the Fortaleza metropolitan
development project even when it was evident that the State of Ceart had
clearly not demonstrated its priority commitment for the kind of
objectives being sought by a larger program.
Performance of Consultants
30.         Local consultants were used due to the availability of
skills in Brazil and their performance was satisfactory. Both terms of
reference and selection procedures were adequate.
PART II
COMSENTS PR0K THE BOROVER
31.         According to Bank project files, attempts were made to
obtain additional information to prepare data for PART III of this PCR
(see Annex 1). However, no formal comments were forthcoming until
receipt of the coxmentary, attached as Annex II. in end 1989.



- 10 -
32.         The retrospect, during the decadei of the So's in Brazil, the
federal institutional framework for urban priicy formulation and for the
financing of urban services has undergone significant changes  and today is in
disarray. There is an almost total loss of institutional memory. In such an
environment of constant change, the coordination of all sector programs and
projects suffered serious delays. At the time of project identification in
1980, urban policy vas the responsibility of the Conselho Nacional de
Desenvolvimento, Urbano (CNDU). The CNDu was located in the Ministry of
Interior (MINTER) as were the regional development agencies, such as SUDENE
for the North-East region. The Banco Nacional de Habitacao (BNI) was then the
principal agency responsible for financing all urban development, iucluding
infrastructure and housing. 17TU in the Miristry of Transport was responsible
for developing transport policy and the financing and execution of special
transportation projects.
33.         A few key dates summarize the main changes that have taken places
0311985    A new Ministry of Urban Development and Environment is created -
responsible for an integrated national policy on housing, basic sanitation,
urban development and the environment (MM). The following are directly linked
to the IDU: the BNH, the national department of Works and sanitation (DNOS),
the CNDU, and a special secretariat for the Environment (SENA) (Decree I
91.154).
0111986     The nTSU is transferred to the MDU and made especially responsible
for the formulation of national urban transport policy (Decree#92.350)
12/1986     The DNOS is transferred out of the MDU to the "Extraordinary"
Ministry of Irrigation.
11/1986     The BNH is abolished and its responsibilities and assets and
liabilities are transferred to the Caisa Economica Federal (CEF) in the
Ministry of Finance. The CEF is designated responsible for coordination of the
National Plan for Popular Housing (PLANAP) and the National Plan for Basic
Sanitation (PLANASA). The MDU is responsible for housing and urban policy.
(Decree #2.291).
10/1987     The MDU is transformed into the Ministry of Housing, Urbanisation
and Environment (NHU). The CEF is transferred from the Ministry of Finance to
the HRU, and authorised to finnmce housing, urban development, urban
transport, basic sanitation and environmental projects. (Decree# 97.075).
09/1988     The NEU is transformed into the Ministry of Housing and Social
Welfare (HBES). The EBTU is transferred back to the Ministry of Transport. The
CNDW is transferred back to MINTER. Two other secretariats (SEMA and CONANA)
are also transferred to MINTER. (Decree t 96.634)



- 11 -
0911988     A maJor fire destroys the offices of the MES. It is alleged that
all records and archiwes of the NBES /MHUMDU are totally destroyed.
02/1989     The MBES is abolished and its responsibilities and resources are
transferred to MINTER. (Medidas Provisorias #29 and 39).
34.         The ability to formulate urban policy, and to devise and finance
national programs, was seriously curtailed when the Federal Government, forced
to reduce the fiscal deficit, drastically cut back many of its programs and
reorganized its administrative structure. Federal level policy making for a
number of Important urban functions was dealt a final blow by the abolition of
the Ministry of Housing and Social Development (MBES) as part of the 'Sunmer
Plan" emergency anti-inflaticn measures taken on January 15, 1989. Thus at the
time of writing, the only entity with explicit responsibility for urban policy
as a whole, the CNDU, is now again under the Ministry of the ITterior. The
RBTU transferred to the Ministry of Transport and subsequently abolished, is
in the process of being restored by the Brazilian Congress, and water supply
and sanitation matters rest with the Ministry of Health. At the same time,
responsibility for financing these programs remains with the CE?, which at the
time of writing was again subordinated to the Ministry of Finace. Thus was
aborted the long and painstaking effort to bring about a more integrated
approach to urban policy in Brazil, and are founded new concerns for the
possible total loss of institutional memory and experience in the sector.
35.         The two state metropolitan regional development authorities, AUMEF
and CONDER, were far removed and totally insignificant in the larger turn of
national change. The performance of the project must be judged as
satisfactory, when viewed against the backdrop of chaotic conditions, albeit
during the early stages of turmoil, in the sector institutions in the decade
of the 80's In Brazil.



12
ARAZUL - Prepr ation of Metropolltan Developm_t Pnrogr.          Pert UII
In Fortblou and Salvador - Loan 2tue-i
Project Coemloeton Report                        pag  1 of 4
Table 1: ProjeCt Timetable
Planned Revised Actual
Item                      Date    Date(s) Date(s)
Identifleatlon            NA       -        NA
Preparation               NA       -        NA
Appraisal mission         2/82    -         2/82
Flrst Project Mm_         -        -        4/82
Loan/Credlt               0/St    -         6/82
Negotiations
Board Approval             S/82    -   8      /2
Loan/Credit               s/s2    -         s/s2
Signature
Loan/Credit               12/82   -         12/82
Effoctivenes
Loam/Credit               6/84    -         6/85
Closing
Loan/Credit               -        -        3/86
Completion
NA--No Appl cable (this project was originally
eonceived in connwetion with the Recite
Metropolitan Dweelopment Project; It was decided
that this project wouid be appraIsed spaortely)



13
DRAZ  - Prepertlon of Metropolftan Povolopsnt Porams                Port III
In Fortelea en Salvedor - Lose 2101-6-
Project Completlon Report                     POg  2 of 4
Table 2s Finel Projet Co.
Act. as                     Act. as
-t US  '000-       a    of -in CS Mil-            S of
Appraisal Actual   Appr.  Appraieal Actu I   Appr.
SALVADOOR
Instt. 0DO.         4,17    1,0I2        431      495   4,17        644
Inc./Employment       606      US        521       e3      764      9241
Pilot Intra.tr.     5,403    1,803       81       66    8,761       581X
Salvador          3,511   1,522        431      417   3,192       7866
Camaarl           1,972      281       14X      234      C89      2521
Sub-to tl            10.350   4,160        40X   1,229   6,722        71ax
Price Cwlntgooc.      1,S25        0        a    1,640         0        ox
SALVADOR TOTAL       11,676   4,160        351   2,869   8,722        8041
-          -          _         ~  _u_. 
FORTALEZA:
Instit. Dov.        5,566   4,016        721      663  17,014    2661
Xnc./Employment       888   1,015      115       105   4,801    40903
Prate do FUtro        0      675      n.n.        0   3,709    n.e.
IIcro-fi ran et.    666      140      16       106      gm2      s631
Pilot Intratruct.  4,602   2,198         46S      570   9,202    23655
so1la 11.t.       1,470        0        ox      1T7        0        ox
Upred/Paving      3,323      641       251      896   8,664       904X
Service Canter        0      216      n.n.        0      916    n.n.
Wb1ter Supply         0      629      n.e.        0   3,511    n.e.
Other                 0      307      n.e.        0   1,301      n.e.
Sub-totl             11,274   7,228        64X   1,163  30,60        26833
*                Price Contingeoc.      1,761       0         OX   2,007         0       as
FORTALEZA TOTAL      13,065   7,223        65X   8,170  30,006        0361
Front-End F.            1U2      182      1001
PROJECT TOTAL     25,072  11,615        46X   6,039  39,829        651X
Notes US$ velwe are only very approximte setimate *ince tbhy
..re not spefically Calculated during lmplemntation.



14
OUR     - Pearation of Ustreoolltai 0ovol p   Preysa.                  port u?
In forOnle  and ahIador - Ia. 21-
Projet ComlOtlon Report                                  page 3 of 4
Tablo 8: Sour.. of Flmeing
(WI theesand)
UaV. Act.           Fort. Act. Total Act.
Actual   asaX   Actual    as a           s a a
Appraisal (Salvador) of Appr. (Fortaloz) of App,.  of App?.
Fodeal 0,t   8,0            S        ax    1,761           48         741
States A &m    12,470    1,20         12     2,42"        1so 
IN             0,900    1,"?7        loX    3,0            84UX       a
TOtal         25,072    4,15          171    7,28          223        451
-   - - -m
Noteot 4o informtion  a available for Sulvador/Fortaloez  breakdown
of source of financ  at appraisal.
-States S MnIcipel oree In the cane of Fortals  Include
trnSftrs fre  the fe.ral government.



15
AUL - preparation of Ustc.ollttn Dwevlopment Program            Port III
in Ferbalm and Solvedtr - Loe  2110
Project Comletion Reort                         pae 4 of 4
Table 4: Kw Project gets
A. Istitutlomal
Borrower:                 Federative Repbl lc of BrOail
Exmeuting Agenciga        COMt, AWUEF
Flscal Yea of
Borrower:               Januau  I - Decebe 81
Follow-en Project:        Salvador metrepolita. Devlopenut
Project, Loa  2801
S. Financial
Appraisal        Actual or
itemt                             Intimate          Regtimat         Dae
Total Projet Cost (8 H)               15.07            11.58
Coat Omrn (S)                            0            -54.00
Losn Amnt USS 1)                       0.9
Dliursed (11 )                         05.09
Canelled (15 U)                          0              8.25
Repaid (Q5  1)                                          1.70          0/80/60
Outstaning CSS U)                                       t.8W          9/0/80
eco_minle ote of ourn 1                 NA                MA
Proportion of Projec Completed          100
by Project Closing Da0    )
(6/80/65)
C. important Datee
planned          Actual
Calendar Item                      D0a              Dat
Flt Mention In Projet FilIs       NA               6/0
First Pr_entation to l             -                9/80
First. Bak Vstiaont                -                10/U2
Consider Project



16
ANNEX 1
UTTER TO SUDEN
Jauurr 16, 19
Bra. Tanta lacelar
Diretora do Planelamento E:lobal
Praca Joas Concelves de Rouss
C?idado Unlverettaria
SCOW Vecife, Pecawlueco
Wmun
BRA ML3  PreParation of 1etropolitsn Deelopm.t Prowr_ for Fottaleza and
salva$or.  toan 21O>w.
"ear nra. waeelar;
Please find attached three tables for our coswletlon reoort for
the ahove proiect. As vou will see, we lack sows Infor tioe, eeneclallv
for the Portalea snprotiect. 'w would he grateful for your assistanee In
fillInf the gavs, which co" he $one In conjuretion with vour vroject
comvletion report for the rortalutau hsuoroject.  tie would  oaureciate
recelving ths revort withir the next 3-4 weeks.
Yoturs sincerely,
r /t
Kin 1hs*Thint
Chief,
1'rban Prnjects Division
Latin Americt  and the (arILbbean
Attachment



17                         ANNEX 1I
Page I of 2
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
10111/89
FROM,     Dr. Luis Henrique Cavalcanti Fragomeni
Advisor, Cabinet of the Minister
TO:       Dr. Alexander Nowicki
Dear Mr. Nowickis
According to your request, I am enclosing coments on the PPAR-
Medium Size Cities (Loan 1720), and observations regarding the PCR -
Elaboration of Metropolitan Development Programs for Fortaleza and Salvador
(Loan 2193-BR).
I take this opportunity to reiterate the satisfaction it gives me
tj verify the Bank's ongoing evaluation process.
Yours Sincerely,
Luis Henrique Cavalcanti Fragomeni
.



18
ANNEX TI
Page 2 of 2
GENERAL CONMENTS ABOUT THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT OF LOAN 2193-BR
"ELABORATION OF THE METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS OF SALVADOR AND
FORTALEZA"
Although I did not participate in this project, I transmit my
favorable opinion regarding the conclusions reached by the reporter under
"Findings and Lessons Learnt', especially item 'i' where it is affirmed
that there exists a 'need to design simpler institutional and financial
arrangements for operations of this nature, especially in highly
inflationary situations'.
In fact, as shown in the report conclusions, the administrative
costs and time spent, without speaking of the institutional burden, were
very heavy for an investment of only $11.5 million.
According to studies carried out in SEAIN/SEPLAN, the annual real
interest rates paid for this loan is 31.622.
It is concluded that this lesson is good for all parties involved,
including the Bank. In enterprises such as the Brazilian, that does not
differ much from those of other developing countries, institutional and
economic change is more the rule than stability, although this last is the
aim of all.
In this sense, it is necessary that from both points of view -
technical, and especially bureaucratic - the very high cost of time in
circumstances of high inflation must be considered.
The agreements and execution plans need to be made more flexible
and simple in order to take into account the reality of the local 'modus
operandi" and more importantly, to reduce the real financial cost of the
loans.
Regarding -the report contents, I do not have any more comments.
Luis Henrique Cavalcanti Fragomeni



