Document of
The World Bank                  ! iftPy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3367-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$8.9 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
PROJECT FOR THE PREPARATION OF METROPOLITAN
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FOR FORTALEZA AND SALVADOR
July 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981             April 30, 1982
Currency Unit  =       Cruzeiro (Cr$)                     Cr$
US$1            =      Cr$53.25                   US$1 = Cr$155.60
Cr$1            =      US$0.19                    US$1 = 0.0066
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in this report is based on the November 1981
cruzeiro exchange rate (US$1 = Cr$118.70).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AUMEF        Autarquia da Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza
(Agency for the Development of the Fortaleza Metropolitan
Region)
CEAG         Centro de Assistencia Gerencial para Empresas Sequeras e
Medias
(Center of Management Assistance for Small and
Medium Size Enterprises)
CONDER       Companhia de Desenvolvimento da Regiao Metropolitana de
Salvador
(Company for the Development of the Salvador Metropolitan
Region)
PMD          Plano de Desenvolvimento Metropolitano
(Metropolitan Development Plan)
RMS          Regiao Metropolitana de Salvador
(Salvador Metropolitan Region)
RMF          Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza
(Fortaleza Metropolitan Region)
SG/MINTER    Secretaria Geral/Ministerio do Interior
(Secretariat General/Ministry of Interior)
SDU/MINTER   Sub-Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Urbano/Ministerio do
Interior
(Sub-Secretariat for Urban Development, Ministry of Interior)
SUDENE       Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
SUTRAB       Superintendencia Baiana para o Trabalho
(Superintendency of Labor of Bahia)
SETRABES     Secretaria do Trabalho e Assistencia Social
*                        (Secretariat of Labor and Social Assistencia)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:         US$8.9 million equivalent, including a front-end fee of
US$132 thousand
Terms:          Interest at 11.6% per annum. Repayment in 15 years,
including 3 years of grace
Beneficiaries: The eight municipalities belonging to the Metropolitan
Region of Salvador (RMS), and the five municipalities
belonging to the metropolitan region of Fortaleza (RMF)
would benefit from the project preparation and institution
building components, while the municipalities of Camagari
in the RMS, and of Fortaleza and Caucaia in the RMF, would
benefit from the pilot urban infrastructure and services.
Relending
Terms:       The Borrower would make the proceeds of the loan available
to the States of Bahia and Ceara as grants. The States
would pass on the loan proceeds through CONDER and AUMEF
respectively, as grants to state and municipal agencies
responsible for the execution of the various components.
These agencies would recover the cost of these components
from final beneficiaries through charges or taxes.
Project
Description: The project would finance the preparation of future
investment projects, including feasibility studies, for the
metropolitan regions of Salvador and Fortaleza in the
Northeast of Brazil. These investment projects would focus
on poverty alleviation through the strengthening of the
economic base of the regions with employment creation
programs, and the provision of urban services and
infrastructure. The project would also finance pilot
infrastructure and institution development programs to test
new technologies and organizational arrangements, to
strengthen the institutions responsible for urban
development planning and management in the metropolitan
regions, and to prepare them for the execution of larger
scale investments.
The proposed project includes the following components in
each metropolitan region: (a) studies for the preparation
of multi-year urban investment plans; (b) technical
assistance, improved planning and management systems and
training, to strengthen the legal, financial,
organizational, and administrative base of the Metropolitan
Region Development Agencies (CONDER and AUMEF); (c) pilot
income and employment generation programs; and (d) pilot
urban infrastructure development projects.



- ii -
The project pilot programs would directly benefit 8,200
families in the municipalities of Camaqari (RMS), Fortaleza
and Caucaia (RMF). In addition, the project would benefit
the whole population of the two metropolitan regions through
improved administrative and urban services.  The urban
poverty impact for the project has been estimated at 60%.
Risks:          The proposed project involves limited risks with respect to
project execution.  There is a risk, however, that the
long-term objectives of the project will not be attained if
the investment plans and feasibility studies which will be
prepared under the project are not financed in due course.
The commitment of the federal government to urban
development in the Northeast makes this risk acceptable.
Estimated
Costs:                                  -----------US$ Thousands--------
Local        Foreign        Total
A. Salvador
Institutional Development             3,456            516         3,972
Income Creation and Employment
Generation                            551             82           633
Pilot Infrastructure Development
Slum Upgrading in Salvador          2,656            397         3,053
Slum Upgrading in Camagari          1,492            223         1,715
Sub-Total                      8,155          1,218        9,373
B. Fortaleza
Institutional Development             4,628            692         5,320
Income Creation and Employment
Generation                            700            105           805
Pilot Infrastructure Development
Metropolitan Garbage Collection
and Disposal                      1,118            167         1,285
Slum Upgrading in Fortaleza/
Caucaia                           2,515            376         2,891
Sub-Total                    8,961          1,340        10,301
C.  Total Project Baseline Costs         17,116          2,558        19,674
Physical Contingencies              1,697            253         1,950
Price Contingencies                 2,885            431         3,316
D.  TOTAL PROJECT COSTS  1/              21,698          3,242        24,940
E.  Front-End Fee                                           132          132
F.  Total Financing Required             21,698          3,374        25,072
1/  Local taxes are insignificant.



- iii -
Financing
Plan:                                           -----US$ Thousands-------
Local      Foreign      Total
Federal Government                3,702          -        3,702
State and Municipalities         12,470          -       12,470
IBRD                              5,526       3,374       8,900
Total                      21,698       3,374      25,072
Estimated
Disbursements:                                  --US$ Millions--
Bank FY                     83              84
Annual                     5.34             3.56
Cumulative                 5.34            8.90
Rate of
Return:       Not applicable.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR A
PROJECT FOR THE PREPARATION OF METROPOLITAN
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FOR FORTALEZA AND SALVADOR
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to -he Federative Repubic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$8.9
million, including a capitalized front-end fee of US$131.53 thousand, to
help finance a Project for the Preparation of the Metropolitan Development
Programs for Fortaleza and Salvador. The proposed loan would have a term
of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a new economic
memorandum visited Brazil in May/June 1982.2/ Country data are provided
in Annex I.
3.        The present government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its attention
has had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-
of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the government include
the growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on imported petroleum, expan-
sion of manufactured exports, and increasing domestic savings. Success on
these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living stand-
ards and better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        In the 13 years ending in 1980, Brazil enjoyed high economic
growth, with GDP rising at about 9% per annum. During the 1967-73 period,
growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the external
resource balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and there also
occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. However,
given the dependence of Brazil's industry and transport system on
petroleum, over 80% of which was imported, the quadrupling of oil prices in
1/ Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Agriculture Development Project for the
State of Amazonas, dated May 10, 1982, and Part III is the same as
Part III of the President's Report for the Recife Metropolitan Region
Development Project, dated May 12, 1982.
2/   Part I on the economy will be revised in August 1982.



-2-
1973 resulted in a sharp deterioration in the nation's terms of trade.
Excess aggregate demand and a succession of bad harvests, along with higher
energy costs, resulted in balance-of-payments difficulties and the
acceleratiou of inflation.
5.        Coping with these constraints, while responding to pressures to
maintain growth of output and employment and simultaneously establishing
the basis for structural adjustment, has been the central problem of
Brazilian economic management. At the same time that success was achieved
in maintaining growth, an innovative effort was launched to reduce energy
consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported petro-
leum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were contained
through the expansion of exports (particularly of manufactures), increased
import barriers, import substitution, and heavy external borrowing.
However, the rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports,
and intensification of inflationary pressures increased the economy's
vulnerability to further external shock, and that vulnerability was
severely tested by the sharp increases in petroleum prices and interest
rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
6.        Measures were taken in 1979 and 1980 to improve control over
public sector spending and monetary expansion. These included increased
central authority over the investments and borrowings of public enter-
prises, the phasing-out of tax earmarkings, and the reduction of consumer
and producer subsidies. Nevertheless, aggregate demand continued to grow
strongly, placing severe pressure on prices and the balance of payments.
In 1980, inflation accelerated to 110% (from 4i% in 1978), and, despite a
32% growth of exports and significant reduction in the volume of petroleum
imports, the current account deficit grew to almost US$13 billion (compared
to $6 billion in 1978). At the same time, Brazil's international reserves
fell from US$11.9 billion to $6.9 billion, and terms tightened on new
foreign borrowing.
7.        In response to the deteriorating situation, and strengthened by
the institutional reforms of the previous two years, constraints were
imposed on aggregate demand in 1981, and efforts to correct the trade
balance were increased. In an effort to encourage private financial
savings and maintain export incentives, monetary correction and exchange
rate adjustments, which were allowed to lag in 1980, were brought back into
line with inflation. Banks were freed from interest rate controls on their
lending, and rates were increased on official credit programs. Some tax
incentives to exports, which had been eliminated in the wake of a large
devaluation of the cruzeiro at the end of 1979, were restored, while the
foreign exchange transactions tax on imports was raised from 15% to 25%.
8.        As a consequence of these measures, the economy entered into
recession in 1981. Despite an estimated 8% growth of agricultural output,
GDP declined around 4%. The industrial sector was hard hit by high
interest rates and cutbacks in public expenditures, and unemployment has
increased in the industrial centers. Manufactured exports, however, have
continued to grow rapidly (32.6% in nominal terms), and a merchandise trade
surplus of US$1.2 billion was achieved in contrast to deficits of US$2.8
in both 1979 and 1980. The 1981 surplus also reflected zero growth of



-3-
imports, including the further reduction of petroleum imports.  Despite
sharply higher interest payments abroad, the current account deficit was
cut by some US$2 billion.  Inflation for the year was reduced to 95% with a
steadily declining trend evident through the second half of the year.  No
problems were experienced in obtaining the US$11.5 billion in net external
financing required in 1981. In contrast to both 1979 and 1980, foreign
exchange reserves increased by US$600 million in 1981. Total medium- and
long-term external debt outstanding at year-end was about US$61.4 billion.
Poverty Programs
9.        Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to efforts to maintain the growth of employment and
prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the northeast
region have been continued notwithstanding the tight fiscal and monetary
restraints.  Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and
extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is
now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Almost two
million loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank (BNH)
since 1964. Improvement and extension of the primary health services to
the urban and rural poor is a government priority in the health sector. A
program for grassroots health and sanitation actions for northeast Brazil
was initiated in 1976. A sites and services program was established in
1975 to benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was complemented in
1977 by a program to finance home improvement and building materials.  High
priority has also been given to the extension and improvement of urban
water supply. Consequently, some six million households comprising about
30 million people have been connected to public water supply systems since
1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers who receive such services
to 75%. 3/
Future Prospects
10.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce petroleum
imports.  Investments in exploration have been accelerated, and foreign
companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS,
the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear power production,
to substitute alcohol for gasoline, to expand domestic coal production, and
to exploit Brazil's shale oil deposits. Efforts are also being made to
induce energy conservation. While results thus far are encouraging,
dependence on imported energy remains formidable. With oil imports consti-
tuting an estimated US$10.3 billion (nearly 44% of Brazil's imports) in
1981, as compared to US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off
between growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a
principal preoccupation of economic decision-makers.
3/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR,
dated July 13, 1979).



-4-
11.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Accelerated
devaluations of the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements,
the phasing-out of tax subsidies to exports, and the gradual freeing of
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments may continue to be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years, and foreign lenders,
including the Bank, should be prepared to finance a significant proportion
of project costs including a part of local costs when necessary.
Furthermore, priority attention has to be given to the development of
domestic energy sources, agriculture, and the stimulation of domestic
savings.
12.       Growth is expected to recover to about 3.4% in 1982 and to
average about 6% per annum in 1981-86, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and
7.2% in 1973-80. Such a growth rate should be compatible with a gradually
declining current account deficit. The debt service ratio would also
decline slowly. These projections are sensitive, however, to petroleum
prices, interest rates, and the rate of growth of manufactured exports.
The combination of high debt service and a high share of petroleum in total
imports leaves the economy vulnerable, and this may be expected to persist
for several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Brazil's resource balance is expected to become positive in
1982, but interest payments on the external debt will increase throughout
the 1982-86 period, even if interest rates should decline. Thus, large
service account deficits will contribute to current account deficits
through 1986. As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is
projected to fall steadily from its peak of 5.4% in 1980. This projection
assumes that imports grow at A moderate pace through 1985, reflecting
restrained demand, and a streatthening of the domestic savings effort.
14.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to
be around US$9 billion in 1982, and to decline thereafter. Gross borrowing
would be about US$16 billion this year and remain in the US$15-16 billion
range over the five-year period, with 70% obtained as financial credits
from private lenders. Consequently, the net debt service ratio4/ would
decline from about 55% in 1981 to about 39% in 1986.
15.       In summary, after a period of rapid growth in the late 1960s and
1970s, the increased cost of petroleum imports has forced the nation to
moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic structure to the
changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially eased by a
strong reserve position, a solid image of creditworthiness, the aggressive
expansion of manufactured exports, and the opportunities for efficient
import substitution offered by the large domestic market. Nevertheless,
4/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1980 the
public sector accounted for 61% of total debt service payments.



-5-
heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of inflation, and the
rapid accumulation of external debt left the economy vulnerable to external
shocks. The government recognizes the need for careful demand management
and for selectivity in its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in
export expansion, import substitution, employment creation, and poverty
alleviation.
16.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and interest rates makes projections subject to a wide margin of
error. The present scenario also depends on Brazil's ability to curtail
inflation, expand manufactured exports, and on its access to international
capital. A major effort is underway to reduce dependence on foreign petro-
leum, but significant results may not be apparent for several years.  On
the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and
resilient. The task of economic management will not be easy, but policy-
makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing circumstances,
and recent policy measures have strengthened their management capacity.
Thus, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms
in the amounts indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
17.       By March 31, 1982 the Bank had made 110 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$6,310.8 million (net of cancellations), of which 58 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77,
US$252 million in FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and
US$378 million in FY81. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1982 was
US$3,003.5 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. In FY82, seven loans totalling
US$722.1 million have been approved. Work is advanced on a third loan for
secondary and feeder roads, a large iron ore mining project in the Serra
dos Carajas, the third-phase project of the northwest region development
program, atid a line of credit to the National Bank for Economic and Social
Development for small-scale and medium-size industries.
19.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1980 amounted to US$63 billion, and is estimated to
have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981. At the end of 1980, the Bank
held 3.9% of the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1980
was 2%. In 1981, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated
to have risen slightly to 4.2% while its share in total debt service
remained constant. These percentages are not expected to rise signi-
ficantly in the next five years.
20.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil totaled US$819.5
million, of which US$542.6 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.  Of
the balance of US$273.3 million, US$207.6 million represent loans and
US$65.7 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of March 31,
1982 is given in Annex II.



-6-
Lending Strategy
21.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the govern-
ment achieve important development objectives which are inter-dependent.
One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the efforts of the
government to identify and develop projects that will increase the produc-
tivity of the lowest income segments of the population, to broaden the
opportunities open to those groups, and to improve their living condi-
tions. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas
Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the south, loans for
urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities
are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban popula-
tion, particularly of the urban poor. Previous loans for nutrition
research and development, primary education, vocational training, agricul-
tural research and extension, and integrated rural development were
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in
the northeast.
22.       Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, establish adequate coordination and control
within the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure
that they are used economically through rational selection of projects.
This institution-building objective is particularly important in the
proposed project which seeks to build up planning and administration capa-
bilities required at the state and local levels for metropolitan region
development activities. Loans for urban development, electric power, rail-
ways, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension,
rural development, water supply and sewerage, and for alcohol and biomass
energy development also have important institution-building objectives.
23.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic pro-
duction for imports. Lending for the electric power sector supports this
objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and its development
lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and
petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute large-scale
efficient domestic production for imports and thus aid its balance-of-
payments position. The alcohol and biomass energy development project
addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum imports. Much of the
Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- is designed to facilitate the economical flow of exports.
24.       A final objective is to provide part of the medium- and long-term
capital inflows needed to sustain growth and achieve its employment
creation and regional development objectives. Continued lending by the
Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as a
sign of confidence in Brazil and encourages others to continue contributing
to the country's development. In some sectors, especially in electric
power and industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional
resources in greater amounts and on more favorable terms from bilateral
credit agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have



been provided. Eleven co-financing operations, for more than US$425 mil-
lion, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial institutions
and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
25.       Over the last three decades, Brazil has experienced rapid urban-
ization, with a concentration of population in the nine large metropolitan
areas: Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro in the southeast; Belo Horizonte in
the center west; Curitiba and Porto Alegre in the south; Fortaleza, Recife
and Salvador in the northeast; and Belem in the north. In 1950, the urban
population of 18.8 million represented 36% of the population of Brazil. In
1980, the urban population had increased to 80.5 million, representing 68%
of the total population. Urban population growth averaged about 5% a year
over the 1960-70 decade, and fell to about 4.5% a year during the 1970-80
decade. This recent decline may be due to the slower rate of indus-
trialization combined with lower birth rates and with increased rural
migration to agricultural frontier areas of the north and center-west.5/
Important disparities exist between regions throughout the country: the
rapid growth of the urban population was highly concentrated in the
southeast, center-west and south of the country. The urban growth in the
northeast is mostly explained by the exodus of the rural population from
the areas recurrently affected by droughts, and more recently by the
attraction of industrial jobs.
26.       Although metropolitan regions continue to grow at rates ranging
from 2.5% for Recife to 5.8% for Curitiba, and still accounted in 1980 for
29% of Brazil's population and 43% of its urban population; growth rates of
medium-sized cities with populations of 100,000 to 200,000 have exceeded by
a large margin those of metropolitan regions since the 1960s, confirming a
process of development towards the interior of the country, away from the
Coast.
The Urban Problem
27.       The majority of urban centers has been unable to cope with the
fast rates of population growth. The physical growth of these centers has
been disorderly as they did not have physical-spatial plans nor legislation
to regulate the location of industries, residential areas and transport
infrastructure. In addition, the delivery of services has lagged behind
demand, and job creation has not always kept up with the increase in the
economically active population. For example, the demand for shelter and
urban services, especially in metropolitan areas, remains unsatisfied
despite the government's continued efforts. Each year more than 600,000
families must find a place to live. In the south, in Sao Paulo in 1976,
26% of the population lived in substandard dwellings, 35% did not have
adequate access to potable water and 65% lacked sewerage facilities. The
situation is worse in the Northeast where, in a city like Salvador in 1975,
5/   The 1980 census data are now being analyzed to test some of these
hypotheses.



52% of the population lived in substandard housing, 27% of the population
had inadequate access to potable water, and 90% had no sewerage facil-
ities. Public transportation is often inaccessible or of difficult access
to the low-income residential areas, therefore limiting the accessibility
to job opportunities of low-income groups.
28.       A large proportion of the population lives in relative poverty.
In Brazil, the urban poverty group is identified as the families whose
monthly earnings are less than three times the minimum wage. In mid-1980,
this threshold was equivalent to an annual income of US$550 per head,
taking the minimum wage in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro as a reference,
which is close to one-fourth of Brazil's current per capita income of
US$2050. According to the Bank's definition of the relative urban poverty
line (one-third the average national per capita income adjusted for urban/
rural price differences), at the time of the 1970 national census, the
percentage of families living in urban poverty ranged from 55% in Curitiba
to 77% in Salvador, the largest city of the northeast; some 41% lived in
relative poverty in greater Sao Paulo, the country's largest metropolitan
region.
Urban Policy and Institutions
29.       Formulation of a national urban policy began with the Second
National Development Plan for the period 1975-79. The policies recommended
in the Plan were that: (a) the administrative systems of municipalities
and metropolitan regions should be strengthened and the provision of basic
infrastructure consolidated, while taking measures to prevent further
regional concentrations of population and economic activity, particularly
in Rio de Janeiro and Lao :au_v,  Ju) chat mediv.=-sized cities should be
developed to strengthen the second tier of the urban structure and to
develop cities in the interior; and (c) the Government's priority invest-
ments in the urban sector should be for housing, water supply and seweraj..,
pollution control, and improved transport services. The same ideas were
taken up again in the Third National Development Plan (1980-85).
30.       The three main federal institutions in the urban sector are:  the
National Urban Development Council (CNDU), an inter-ministerial council
established in 1975, responsible for overall urban policy and programming
of which the Subsecretariat for Urban Development in the Ministry of
Interior (SDU/MINTER) is the executive arm; the National Housing Bank
(BNH), created in 1964 and responsible for investments in housing and
complementary infrastructure (water supply, sewerage, etc.); and the
Brazilian Urban Transport Company (EBTU), founded in 1976 and responsible
for urban transport investments. Through these agencies, the Government is
attempting to achieve its urban development goals by means of a variety of
programs. The more important are: (a) the Metropolitan Regions Program
and the Medium-Sized Cities Program, administered by CNDU under which the
Federal Government finances physical investments as well as training and
institutional development to states and municipalities; (b) the Popular
Housing Program, the Water and Sewerage Program, and the Urban
Rehabilitation Program (under which the Federal Government finances urban
improvements in these sectors), administered by BNH; and (c) the Urban
Transport Program, administered by EBTU, which aims at improving the
accessibility of public transportation to lower income groups. BNH absorbs



- 9 -
the largest share of the federal urban investment budget:  its 1980 invest-
ment program was Cr$152 billion (US$2.33 billion); 92% of the total. EBTU
accounted for 7% of the total with Cr$12.1 billion and CNDU for 1% with
Cr$1.3 billion.
Brazilian Metropolitan Regions System
31.       The difficulties of providing adequate urban services in the face
of urban growth trends that were producing physically integrated but admin-
istratively independent conurbations have long been recognized in Brazil:
in 1967, the revised Federal Constitution included provisions that foresaw
the creation of "metropolitan regions" to facilitate the provision of
common services. However, it was not until 1973 that the first eight
metropolitan regions -- Sao Paulo, Belo Horizonte, Porto Alegre, Curitiba,
Recife, Salvador, Fortaleza, and Belem were created.   Rio de Janeiro was
added in 1974. The metropolitan regions law required the creation, by the
respective states, of Advisory and Deliberative Councils, the latter with
responsibility for: (a) the preparation of integrated metropolitan region
development plans and programs for the provision of common services; and
(b) the coordination and execution of programs and projects of metropolitan
scope, with the objective of unifying, where possible, common services.
The law defined "common services" to include:  (a) integrated development
planning; (b) basic sanitation (water, sewerage, and garbage collection);
(c) metropolitan land use; (d) transportation and the road system; (e) the
production and distribution of piped gas; and (f) water resource use and
pollution control.
32.       The law has two particularly interesting features.  It estab-
lishes that the states are responsible for ensuring that common services
are programmed and provided in metropolitan regions in a coordinated
manner. It supports the Deliberative Councils in a practical way by estab-
lishing that municipalities that participate in the activities of the
Deliberative Councils will be given preference in the allocation of state
and federal resources. This provision was strengthened by a subsequent
decree that established that federal funds could be used in metropolitan
regions only for projects that were compatible with the metropolitan devel-
opment plan.
Bank Strategy and Involvement in the Sector
33.       Given the scale of Brazil's urban problems and the scarcity of
funds available for investment, the strategy agreed upon between the
Federal Authorities and the Bank is to concentrate the latter's efforts in
key sectors (housing, urban transport, employment creation, urban
infrastructure and services), and to channel its resources through federal
intermediaries. Thus, the Bank is working with federal institutions to
introduce improved methods of analysis, an increased focus on urban
poverty, and better coordination between agencies. To reinforce these
institution-building objectives, Bank-financed urban projects in Brazil
have attempted to transfer as much as possible of the project preparation,
appraisal, and supervision responsibility to the federal agencies
responsible for the projects and to encourage the federal agencies, where
appropriate, to transfer this responsibility to local agencies.



- 10 -
34.       To date, five urban projects have received financing from the
Bank in Brazil. The First Urban Transport Project was approved in June
1978, the Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project in January 1979,
the Medium-Sized Cities Project in May 1979, the Second Urban Transport
Project (Porto Alegre Suburban Railway) in April 1980, and the Third Urban
Transport Project in May 1981. A metropolitan region development project
in Recife was presented to the Board in June 1982. After initial start-up
problems, experience under the ongoing projects has been positive.
Disbursements were slower than expected in initial years of project
implementation but are now progressing well. The Bank has developed a good
relationship with federal and local urban institutions which have now
acquired their own capability in project appraisal and supervision.
Targets for housing construction, urban upgrading, and transport develop-
ment are being achieved. New technologies have been tested and acquired
through the projects, as well as new methods for spatial planning and
investment design. Benefitting from the experience with the earlier
projects, measures have been taken in the proposed project to minimize
possible start-up delays with land acquisition, counterpart fund
provisions, and quality control of civil works.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was prepared by the Companhia de
Desenvolvimento da Regiao Metropolitana de Salvador - CONDER and the
Autarquia da Regiao Metropolitana de Fortaleza - AUMEF, with the assistance
and collaboration of the federal Subsecretariat for Urban Development -
SDU/MINTER, the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast -
SUDENE, the planning secretariats of the States of Bahia and Ceara, and the
Municipalites of Salvador, Camacari, Fortaleza, and Caucaia. The project
was initially identified as a component of the Recife Metropolitan Region
Development project but, as it was much less advanced in its preparation
than the latter it was later decided with the Government to desigr. it as a
preparation/engineering project. Salvador and Fortaleza are the other two
metropolitan regions in the Northeast, and their respective rates of growth
are expected to continue to be higher than Recife's. However, they do not
yet have metropolitan planning agencies as well developed as Recife's. The
project was appraised in January/February 1982 and negotiated on June
29-30, 1982. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
The Northeast of Brazil
36.       The nine states of northeast Brazil had a population of about 35
million in 1980, or 29% of Brazil's population, after growing at a net rate
of 2.2% per year over the 1970-80 period. About half of the population
live in urban areas. Much of the region has a semi-arid climate and
periodic droughts have caused massive rural exodus towards the urban
centers, in particular Fortaleza, Recife, and Salvador In spite of the
improvements made by the government in the decade of the 1970's, such as
the increase in access to sanitation of 19% in rural areas, and 17% in
urban areas, the Northeast still is the poorest region of Brazil and
disparities with the south are increasing. The per capita income of the
northeast is estimated at about US$800 or about 40% of the national per
capita income; for some individual states per capita income might be as low



- 1I -
as 20% of the national average. In 1979, it was estimated that about 79%
of families earned the equivalent of two or less minimum wages per month,
including income in kind; only 21% had an adequate diet; 40% were literate,
40% had access to sanitation; and infant mortality reached 122 per 1,000.
The Salvador and Fortaleza Metropolitan Regions
37.       Together with Recife, Salvador and Fortaleza make up the three
metropolitan regions in the northeast. They share a number of character-
istics including relatively high growth rates, incipient or advanced decen-
tralization of population within the metropolitan region, insufficient
urban services, and deteriorating housing conditions. Nevertheless, the
internal economy of each of the three metropolitan regions is different, as
is their level of development and the nature and depth of the urban
problems they are facing.
The Salvador Metropolitan Region
38.       The Salvador Metropolitan Region (RMS) straddles Todos os Santos
Bay on the Atlantic coast of the state of Bahia and is formed by seven
municipalities around the city of Salvador itself (see IBRD Map No.
16379). During the past decade, the population of the RMS increased at an
average annual rate of 4.6% bringing the number of inhabitants from 1
million in 1970 to 1.8 million in 1980; this compares to an annual growth
rate of 2.4% for the state. In 1977, the RMS accounted for 17.8% of the
State's population of 8.9 million. The distribution of the population
within the RMS is changing: the peripheral municipalities have been
attracting larger numbers of people because of industrial investments made
since the late sixties, with growth rates ranging from 5.0 to 14%.
Nevertheless, Salvador remains the primary residential area due to the lack
of urban infrastructure in the peripheral municipalities: for example it
accomodates 40% of the workers of the petrochemical complex (COPEC) located
in Camacari, and 64% of those who work in the other main industrial
district, the Aratu Industrial Center (CIA). Salvador's economic base was
centered around the export of agricultural products until the mid-sixties,
when major investments were made in the establishment of the petrochemical
complex in Camacari (COPEC) and the Aratu Industrial Center. This led to
other investments in several import substitution industries linked to the
heavy industries, which combined with the burgeoning tourist industry, have
given the RMS an increasingly diversified economic base.
39.       Urban poverty.  In 1977, 47% of the population over ten years of
age was economically active, and employed in construction, industry, public
administration and a variety of services. In 1970, 58% of the RMS popula-
tion was living on three minimum salaries or less; by 1975, this figure had
decreased to 42.4%. At the other end of the spectrum, 19.4% made more than
eleven minimum salaries. However, in peripheral municipalities, the pro-
portion of the population earning less than three minimum salaries ranged
from 80% to 66%. In 1975, 52% of the RMS total housing stock was clas-
sified as substandard; and 23% of the population lacked access to piped
water. In Salvador, 90% lacked access to sewerage connections; the rest of
the metropolitan area had no sewerage systems at all. It is estimated that
the housing deficit will reach about 250,000 units by 1985.  In addition,



- 12 -
distances between residential and job locations have increased, with the
result that transportation absorbs a large proportion of family budgets.
40.       Institutional Framework.  The Companhia de Desenvolvimento da
Regiao Metropolitana de Salvador (CONDER) was established in 1967 to plan
the Roncavo green belt area between Salvador and the new industrial
centers; its main activity at this time was in planning of agricultural
land use. In 1974, CONDER was legally instituted as the metropolitan
agency to plan the region's overall development, based on the new indus-
trial centers. Attached to the State Secretariat of Planning, CONDER is
becoming increasingly involved in planning and coordinating investments in
community facilities and public services for low-income areas, as well as
in directing public investments to areas outside the congested Salvador
downtown area. It has also had experience coordinating the Bank-supported
First Urban Transport Project for Salvador. CONDER has an experienced and
competent staff of 110 professionals including architects, regional
planners, economists, engineers, sociologists, accountants and social
workers.
41.       The Planning Process.  CONDER published the Metropolitan
Development Plan (PMD) in 1977 which outlined the development perspectives
for the RMS until 1985. The PMD mostly consists of the land use and trans-
portation plan (EUST), but also identifies major problems confronting the
RMS such as the preservation of the water catchment areas, poor distribu-
tion of housing development, very uneven urban densities, leapfrog develop-
ment, expansion of growth poles, and excessive concentration of tertiary
activities in the capital city. The EUST recommends an approach which
would consolidate new investments with recent urban development trends,
rather than alter them radically. Its overall objective is to balance
economic activities in all sectors with the supply of housing and urban
services.   Special emphasis is plazed on the intensive use of transporta-
tion corridors and the establishment of a new urban nucleus between
Salvador and Lauro Freitas (see Map 16379). In addition to the EUST,
several land use plans for the municipalities have been prepared, as have
several sector plans for the RMS. The plans are generally compatible and
fit well with the overall planning perspective.
The Fortaleza Metropolitan Region
42.       The Fortaleza Metropolitan Region (RMF) is formed by five munic-
ipalities and grew around the capital city of Fortaleza on the coast of
the state of Ceara (see Map 16378). Fortaleza's economy developed around
its port for the export of cotton and sugar from the hinterland. An
undiversified agricultural base and periodic drought contributed to heavy
migration to Fortaleza, particularly in the 1960's, more than a third of
its 1970 population being migrants. In 1980, the population of the RMF
reached 1.6 million inhabitants with the municipality of Fortaleza
accounting for 83% of its population. Fortaleza currently has residential
densities of 3,896 inhabitants per km2 as compared to 454 residents per km2
for the overall RMF. In turn, the population of the RMF acounts for almost
a third of the state's overall population and over half of the state's
urban population. The annual growth rate of the RMF over the past four
decades has averaged 4.3%, compared to 2.4% for the state and 4.0% for its
urban centers. It is estimated that the RMF population will increase to
2.3 million by 1990 and to 3.2 million by the turn of the century.



- 13 -
43.       Urban Poverty.  In 1978, the RMF had 7.5% of its labor force in
the primary sector, 30% in the secondary sector, and 62.5% in the tertiary
sector -- for a total of about 504,000 workers. Of this labor force, 77%
earned less than three times the minimum salary. In 1980, about 40% of the
RMF labor force was involved in informal sector activities, and 49% of the
RMF population, was living on one or less minimum salaries per family.
Over 21% of the RMF's population lived in substandard dwellings in slum
areas. Data for 1977 show that only 34% of dwellings in the RMF had piped
water, as compared to the national average of 75%, and the average for the
northeastern metropolitan regions of 73% in Salvador and 71% in Recife.
Only 11% of the RMF population has sewerage connections, the unconnected
dwellings relying largely on pit latrines.
44.       Institutional Framework.  The Autarquia da Regiao Metropolitana
de Fortaleza (AUMEF) was created in 1973 as the Metropolitan Planning
Agency; it is attached to the State Secretariat of Planning and
Coordination. Since 1975, AUMEF has been responsible for the physical and
transport planning of Fortaleza, for providing investment guidelines to
municipal governments, and for administering the state's medium-sized
cities program; the latter function was later transferred to a specially
created agency. In 1979, AUMEF created a metro information system, and
developed a technical assistance program in RMF municipalities. More
recently, AUMEF has focussed its efforts on promoting the economic develop-
ment of the region by preparing feasibility studies for productive invest-
ments. AUMEF has 66 professional staff members. In the future, AUMEF
plans to strengthen its economic and information systems staff. As
compared to other metropolitan region agencies, namely FIDEM in Recife, and
CONDER in Salvador, AUMEF is less experienced; its efficiency has been
limited by the lack of a Special Development Fund for the RMF. This would
be remedied under the project (para 53(b)).
45.       The Planning Process.  AUMEF has issued three major documents:
the global land-use plan (1977); the drainage master plan (1978); and the
transportation master plan (1981). In addition, the Fortaleza municipal
planning department produced a public investment plan. AUMEF, which has
always worked closely with the Fortaleza planning agency, insured that this
plan is compatible with the regional plans. AUMEF's future projects
include: (i) assisting the four peripheral municipalities in producing
their local development plans and their housing and building codes over the
next two years; and (ii) updating the RMF development plan, to reduce
economic, social and infrastructure disparities between Fortaleza and the
peripheral municipalities.
Project Objectives
46.       The project's main objectives are two-fold:  (a) to prepare
development programs and investment projects for the two metropolitan
regions which would be submitted for financing to the Bank; and (b) to
strengthen the regional metropolitan planning agencies of Salvador and
Fortaleza in order to prepare them for the execution of larger scale
investment projects. The objective of the development programs and
investment projects would be:  (a) to provide or improve housing and urban
infrastructure and services; (b) to support, complement and induce desired
patterns of metropolitan development; (c) to generate employment and



- 14 -
improve incomes, especially for the urban poor; and (d) to strengthen the
institutions responsible for the planning, administration, and financial
management of urban and metropolitan regional development. The preparation
of the invescment projects would incorporate new technologies,
institutional arrangements, and project designs which will be tested under
the proposed project. While more conventional project components would be
prepared directly through detailed engineering, others merited further
study and testing, including pilot experiences, before they could be
incorporated to a metropolitan development program. This is particularly
the case when new technology and/or innovative institutional and
organizational structures would be introduced; this also applies to the
employment generation and income improvement programs, which are on-going
experiences but merit to be further explored and developed.  The results
from testing pilot components would be used in the final design of the
metropolitan development programs.
Project Description
47.       The Salvador and Fortaleza subprojects would each include the
following components:
(a) institutional development, which would include detailed
investment and engineering studies, technical assistance in
financial and economic analysis for project preparation, and
administrative and financial management; income and
employment generation studies and pilot programs; and
(b) pilot civil works which would include alternative technol-
ogies, innovative institutional arrangements, and an
integrated approach in urban development.
All the components were chosen in sectors of activity where the components
of the large-scale investment projects would be selected: upgrading;
provision of urban services (water supply, sanitation, garbage collection);
urban infrastructure (industrial sites, transport); income and employment
generation programs; and institutional development. In addition, the pilot
civil works are an integral part of the preparation of the feasibility
studies as they will test methods, technologies, and institutional
arrangements to execute more important civil works investments. Thus, the
engineering project would be an instrument not only to prepare future
investment projects, but also to train the institutions that would be
responsible for their execution to the management of a complex metropolitan
investment program.
Salvador Subproject
48.       The objective of the Salvador subproject is to strengthen
CONDER's capability for coordinating the execution of programs and projects
between the various agencies of the metropolitan region and for providing
technical assistance to these institutions. Under the subproject, the
capability of the agencies to execute various projects will also be tested,
principally through the pilot civil works and income generation
components. In addition, the subproject aims at developing the
administrative and financial capabilities of the municipalities, through
technical assistance and studies.



- 15 -
49.       Institutional Development.  CONDER already has the financial
instruments, legal authority and the management capacity for carrying out a
project at the scale of the metropolitan region. The institutional
development component would strengthen this capability; it would test for
effectiveness the mechanisms for coordination, methodologies, and work
programs, principally to provide technical assistance to RMS municipalities
and to specialize its own staff in specific areas of expertise. This
component would consist of the following:
(a)  Metropolitan Project Preparation.  CONDER would organize the
preparation of an investment program for the RMS. The criteria used to
select the components would be that they: (i) strengthen the economic base
of the metropolitan area, in order to increase employment; (ii) contribute
to a more balanced distribution in the RMS of population density, of land
use, and residential, commercial, and industrial locations; and (iii)
strengthen the institutional framework and mechanisms for the development
and management of the RMS. CONDER would update the current metropolitan
development plan, conduct a study of the economy of the RMS; develop plans
to improve municipal finance; prepare feasibility studies; and prepare
detailed engineering designs for specific investments.
(b) Municipal Modernization. CONDER would provide about 2,600 hours
of technical assistance and training for key staff in the government of the
municipality of Lauro de Freitas (population 35,000; a poor bedroom
community located on the periphery of Salvador). The priority areas would
be: (i) basic land use legislation, enforcement of appropriate zoning and
building codes allowing for construction of low-cost housing, and the
internal organization and structure of the municipal government; (ii)
administrative procedures and standards, including the preparation of
manuals and staff training in administration and financial management; and
(iii) project evaluation, including the preparation of manuals and staff
training in project analysis techniques, norms and standards.
(c) Land Use Training. A training course in the interpretation of
the new federal land-use legislation for metropolitan areas would be
carried out. It would be directed to the technical staff (mainly lawyers
and architects) working in CONDER, in municipal governments, and other
agencies who are dealing with related land use problems. During the
course, the participants would develop an orientation manual which would be
published as a guide to land use legislation. Criteria and procedures for
analysis of urbanization projects would also be established or reviewed
during the course.
(d)  Economic and Financial Analysis Training.  Two short courses in
the theory, design, and appraisal of urban projects would be set up with
special emphasis on the economic and financial analysis for project
preparation.  It would be directed at professionals responsible for
metropolitan and municipal planning, and to professionals from sectoral
agencies.
(e) Monitoring and Evaluation System. CONDER would conduct a series
of surveys before and after the implementation of most of the components of
the subproject, and use the results to develop and institutionalize a
monitoring and evaluation system applicable to the future large-scale



- 16 -
metropolitan development project. This system would become a planning tool
for CONDER to measure the impact of urban projects.
50.       Income and Employment Generation.  The objective of this
component would be to experiment with new approaches to improve incomes,
and to test their replicability in the RMS. The various elements of this
component would be an expansion of on-going efforts; they have been
selected in priority employment areas, such as the construction sector and
traditional sector activities by men and women, where the potential
replicability is large.  In addition, current efforts do not include design
criteria acceptable to the Bank, such as cost recovery and productivity
increases, and the documentation and evaluation of the results have been
limited. These deficiencies would be corrected through the pilot income
generation schemes included in this component, which would consist of the
following:
(a) A Construction Jobs Support System. A placement service for
construction workers who traditionally suffer the most frequent lay-offs
with the longest delays between jobs would be established, and would
include: (i) the purchase of 6 fully equipped field-office trailers; (ii)
training provided by the State Secretariat of Labor (SUTRAB) for 12 mobile
unit staff members; (iii) technical assistance provided by SUTRAB to each
trailer operation; (iv) studies to refine and document operational proced-
ures, cost recovery mechanisms and project impact. Average delays between
jobs are expected to be reduced from 20 to 3 days.
(b) Informal Sector Support. This component is intended to reach
low-income women, building upon their traditional activities of providing
laundry services and child care to higher income families. Facilities and
equipment for two laundry women's associations (one each in Salvador and
Camacari), would be provided, and would increase the productivity and
working conditions of 250 laundresses.   Facilities (a building and some
equipment) would also be provided for a child care association in Salvador,
and 450 women would be trained in professional childcare methods; technical
assistance would be lent by SUTRAB to set up and operate the association.
Finally, studies to monitor the projects, evaluate their impacts, and
examine the feasibility of a RMS-wide program would be carried out.
(c)  Manpower Training.  A manpower training center would be con-
structed and operated in Camacari to complement the manpower training
program for unskilled workers initiated in 1976. This component would
consist of: (i) construction of a 702 m2 building to house the entire
training operation in one site (ii) purchase of equipment and tools for
practice sessions in various skills (carpentry, sawmilling, welding, auto
repair, dressmaking, practical nursing, etc.; (iii) purchase of office and
classroom furniture and equipment; (iv) technical and managerial assistance
to assist in staff selection, administration, and operations; and
(v) studies to examine the admissions criteria, the coordination with the
municipal secretary of labor in placing graduates, and the training
-curricula. One thousand seven hundred and twenty persons would be trained
by the end of the project; 700 the first year, 1,020 the second year.
(d) Family Food Production. This component would expand and improve
household activity in the production and marketing of "backyard vegetable



- 17 -
plots" in the Camagari area.  It would consist of:  (i) rental of 40 ha. of
land suitable for vegetable growing; (ii) purchase of simple farm tools and
equipment; (iii) purchase of inputs; (iv) technical assistance by the
municipal agricultural extension agency to about 100 families in food
production and marketing; and (v) studies to document the program, to
examine the recovery of costs, and to examine alternatives. This component
will benefit low-income families earning less than three minimum salaries
(40% of the Camaqari families) and who spend more than 70% of their income
on food.
51.       Pilot Civil Works.  The pilot infrastructure components for
Salvador would consist of different types of upgrading in low-income areas
of two municipalities of the RMS.
(a) The upgrading program in the Municipality of Salvador would
benefit the 12,000 low-income residents of Antonio Balbino. The 42.5 ha.
valley is part of the Camarugipe river basin and is subject to periodic
flooding and land slides. Integrated upgrading of the community,
introducing basic sanitation (storm drainage, pit latrines, water
connections), a pedestrian circulation system, community facilities, and
serviced sites (including basic sanitation) for the relocation of settlers
displaced by the works would be provided. A locally developed appropriate
technology combining storm drainage and stair/walkways would be used along
steep slopes, and prevent landslides. Specifically, the component would
comprise an 816 m access road, 8,200 m of combined storm-drain/walkways, a
1,068 m storm drainage channel, 200 serviced sites, a 659 m2 day care
center, a 567 m2 pre-school unit and a 307 m2 cesta do povo state food
distribution center. The drainage channel would prevent flooding in the
area.
(b) The upgrading program in the Municipality of Camaqari would
consist of upgrading three low-income settlements at different levels of
development. In the most recent squatter settlement the component would
provide 1,635 m of water network, with 94 dwelling connections and a public
tap; 109 latrines with double-chamber septic tanks, 1,000 m of pedestrian
walkways and 634 m of cobblestone-paved access roads; and regularization of
tenure for 133 lots. In a second, more developed settlement, 750 latrines
with double-chamber septic tanks would be provided, while in the third, a
circulation network with 1,300 m of walkways and 5,000 m of roadway, all of
low-cost design, would be built. (In all cases, the effluent disposal
system includes sink-holes and sippage fields.) In addition, the Avenida
Oeste would be upgraded along 3,560 m giving access to bus transportation
and other services to the 30,000 low-income inhabitants of the three
settlements mentioned above. Finally, a small municipal plant would be
expanded to produce 280,000 soil-cement bricks and 33,000 sand-cement
roofing tiles a month, at a cost which low-income families can afford.
Fortaleza Subproject
52.       The objectives of the Fortaleza subproject are to strengthen the
legal, financial, organizational, and administrative base of the AUMEF, to
carry out some of the metropolitan plans needed for the definition of
future development planning, to prepare investment projects, and to test
the execution capabilities of several agencies.



- 18 -
53.       Institutional Development.  This component would focus on
strengthening the legal, financial, organizational and administrative base
of the AUMEF, including the development of planning tools and studies for
future proiects which will be carried out under the coordination and super-
vision of AUMEF. Having defined each task with a timetable of execution,
and indicators of success, AUMEF and the Bank will be able to monitor the
institutional change and evaluate its effectiveness. This component would
consist of the following:
(a) Metropolitan Structuring and Project Preparation. AUMEF would
prepare a new development plan for the metropolitan region, based on the
earlier physical plans (i.e., global land-use plan, drainage master plan,
and transportation master plan). It would establish guidelines, strategies
and programs for the spatial structuring of the RMF, as well as order the
municipal space and road systems, and prepare the basic urban legislation
of the four peripheral municipalities. AUMEF would also prepare
feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the future RMF integrated
metropolitan development project.
(b) Metropolitan System of Investment Management. This component
would activate and test the planning, execution and administrative systems
of AUMEF to prepare it for the future integrated development project in the
AUMEF. It would consist of: (a) preparation of manuals for use by AUMEF
staff on land use planning, project feasibility, execution, supervision,
and evaluation; and (b) training of AUMEF staff to apply the manuals. In
addition, the state would, as conditions of effectiveness, establish a
Development Fund for the metropolitan region to be managed by AUMEF, and
pass a decree for the metropolitan region which corresponds to the federal
decree No. 85.916; this decree would give AUMEF the legal authority to
coordinate investments in the metropolitan region (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 7.02 (c) and (d)).
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation. This component would consist of a
system to measure project impacts by comparing physical and financial
targets with actual implementation.  A similar system is successfully being
used in the Bank-supported Medium-Sized Cities Project.
(d) PMC Modernization. The Prefeitura Municipal de Caucaia would
receive extensive technical assistance from AUMEF in municipal administra-
tion and finance, project execution, control and supervision. This would
be a pilot experience with a view to providing similar assistance to the
rest of the RMF municipalities in the future RMF project.
(e) Metropolitan Cadastral Survey System. AUMEF would increase its
staffing to carry out surveys and update the cadastral system, and would
purchase additional computer equipment for its own use and that of the
municipal government of Fortaleza. Once operational, the system would
generate an additional Cr$100.3 million over the current Cr$44.9 million in
real estate taxes in the four peripheral municipalities, and in Fortaleza
Cr$1,250 million in addition to current revenues of Cr$600 million derived
from these taxes.
(f) Aerophotographic Survey. AUMEF would update the cartographic
system to a 1:10,000 standard scale based on aerial photos covering the



- 19 -
entire 3,483 km2 of the RMF to replace the existing partial and
inconsistent coverage.
(g) Metropolitan Garbage Collection and Disposal Master Plan. AUMEF
would prepare a garbage treatment master plan for the metropolitan region
(at present, only Fortaleza has a municipal department for garbage collec-
tion). This would involve detailed estimates for the installation, oper-
ation, and maintenance of alternative systems, and proposals for institu-
tional arrangements among municipalities; recommendation would be made to
resolve the issue of scavengers. This component is tied to the pilot
garbage disposal component (see para. 55(a)), and to the results of that
experience.
(h) Water Resource Master Plan. In view of the need to plan
the efficient use of the region's scarce water resources, AUMEF would, in
coordination with the two regional water management agencies - DNOS and
DNOCS:  (i) undertake an inventory of water resources in the RMF; (ii)
formulate policies for their rational use and equitable distribution; and
(iii) develop an urban land use model compatible with water availability.
54.       Income and Employment Generation.  This component would consist
of a research program to provide AUMEF with basic data for the sector, and
of pilot programs to be used for the design of the future RMF metropolitan
development project, and which would incorporate the results of several
programs. As in the case of Salvador (para 50), the elements of this
component have been selected in priority employment areas, as an extension
of on-going efforts (e.g., sewing), and where the potential for
replicability is large. The experience gained under the pilot programs
would permit to improve the design of such programs on a larger scale and
to introduce such criteria as productivity increases and cost recovery.
(a) Economic and Employment Sector Study. This component would
analyze the economy of metropolitan Fortaleza over time, and its prospects
for the future. It would review the principal economic activities, the
institutions operating the systems of incentives, comparative advantages,
labor force composition, productivity, and spatial distribution. It would
also examine the role of the informal sector and small-scale enterprises in
the economy. The study would involve approximately 50 person-months.
(b) Market Gardens. This component would consist of (a) building a
small demonstration and training site in the project area, with a seedling
nursery, demonstration plots, input storage, and a market for excess
vegetable production from "backyard vegetable plots"; (b) technical
assistance to 300 families in basic agricultural methods and techniques;
(c) short-term production credit for each family for the purchase of
agricultural inputs; (d) marketing assistance to each family to help them
in selling excess production; and (e) studies to document the extent to
which a larger scale project would be feasible and costs could be
recovered.
(c) Assistance to Micro-Enterprises. This component would consist of
(a) setting up and operating a management assistance (CEAG) field office;
(b) a survey of micro-enterprises in the area, including the identification
of their needs and characteristics, and the selection of those with poten-
tial for increasing productivity; (c) training of CEAG staff assigned to



- 20 -
the field office; (d) technical and/or managerial assistance and training
(depending on need) to 150 owner-managers in appropriate technology adjust-
ments, cost accounting and marketing; (e) management assistance to 150
micro-enterprises owners in obtaining credit from local banking sources;
and (f) training in basic cost accounting and management for 300 employees.
(d) Productivity Center. This component would expand and test the
viability of a common approach to improving industrial sewing by local
artisans, which is a traditional activity in the northeast, especially in
Fortaleza. It would consist of: (a) construction of physical facilities
in the community center, Mareshal Rondon; (b) purchasing of 20 industrial
sewing machines and electric powered cutters; (c) purchasing of office
equipment and furniture; (d) technical and managerial assistance and
training provided by FUNSESCE (the Social Service Foundation of Fortaleza)
to 30 seamstresses in improved sewing methods and self-management
techniques; and (e) studies to document experiments conducted in
production, marketing, self-management arrangements, and cost recovery.
55.       Pilot Infrastructure.  Under this category, a number of pilot
civil works projects have been grouped in two components: metropolitan
infrastructure, in the form of a pilot experience to organize the overall
functioning of the RMF and upgrading, which deals with shelter and urban
service improvements in a low-income area of about 4,190 ha. straddling the
border between the municipalities of Fortaleza and Caucaia, with a popula-
tion of 329,500 inhabitants.  Between 80% and 89% of the population lives
on less than three minimum salaries, and about 10% of the work force is
unemployed.
(a) Metropolitan Infrastructure. (i) A metropolitan garbage
disposal site would be developed in a 50-ha. area. in the municipality of
Caucaia to address the urgent need of the Municipality of Fortaleza, which
has run out of space for garbage disposal.  The project would also s8-
Caucaia and the nearby Second Industrial District.  In exchange for .i.i;
site in the municipality of Caucaia, the municipality of Fortaleza would
provide it the garbage collection se,-vice with its own equipment. The
project would serve as a pilot excercise to be used in the preparation of
the garbage collection and disposal master plan. (ii) An experimental
urban service center would be constructed in the project area described
above. The service center would consist of two buildings with almost 3,000
m2 of covered space around a multipurpose open public square; it would
house electric and phone companies, state and municipal tax collection
agencies, and other public service offices. This would significantly
decrease travel time and trips to the congested downtown area from this
part of the RMF. The service center would also provide rental space for
commercial services and informal sector activities. If succesful, AUMEF
would replicate this service center in three other parts of the RMF.
(b) Pilot Upgrading. This component would include: (i) a water
network with about 4,930 individual dwelling connections, benefitting some
21,200 inhabitants of the project area; (ii) a sewer system covering part
of the same area with the use of septic tanks and a small bore collection
network; (iii) construction of three 874 m2 elementary schools with six
class-rooms each and a capacity for 630 students per shift; and (iv)
construction of four 144 m2 health posts, each capable of serving 19,300



- 21 -
patients per year; construction of an 800 m2 health center for 10,400
patients per year; and, construction of a 346 m2 maternity assistance unit
(day-care, pre-school activities and health orientation). This component
would be a test for the delivery of integrated services for low-cost
technology dissemination, and for intermunicipal cooperation.
Project Cost Estimates
56.       The total estimated cost of the project, including contingencies
is of US$24.88 million, of which 13% would be foreign exchange. The
relatively low-foreign exchange component reflects the large proportion of
technical assistance and studies which would be provided and carried out
largely by local technicians. Taxes are negligible. Cost estimates were
based on February 1982 prices. Cost estimates were based on standard final
designs for community facilities, on final designs for all projects except
for the alternative technology sewerage system in Fortaleza, which was
based on preliminary engineering. The project would provide about 900
person-months of consulting services and technical assistance (mainly
local) at an average cost estimated of US$7,250 per person-month,
(including travel, subsistence and overhead). Physical contingencies
ranging from an average of 15% for civil works to 10% for employment
generation and 5% for technical assistance and studies are deemed adequate
for the level of preparation, and taking into account the nature of the
project. Price contingencies were calculated on the basis of the following
rates: 90% in 1982, and 70% in 1983 for domestic inflation; and 8% in 1982
and in 1983 for international inflation. In converting local costs into
dollars to calculate the loan amount, quarterly adjustments have been made
in the estimated exchange rate for the cruzeiro. The average exchange rate
per US$ has been estimated to be Cr$192 for the last two quarters of 1982,
and Cr$282 for 1983.
57.       The proposed loan of US$8.9 million, which includes US$0.2 mil-
lion for the capitalized front-end fee assessed by the Bank, would finance
a Bank contribution of 35% of the project costs which would cover the
foreign exchange component (13%) and some local expenditure (22%).
Counterpart funds provided by the federal government (SDU/MINTER) would
amount to 15% of total project costs; the remaining 50% would be
contributed by state and municipalities, including borrowings from BNH.
The relative contributions for individual components would vary while the
overall ratios would be maintained. It was agreed at negotiations that
SG/MINTER, SUDENE, the states, AUMEF, CONDER, and the Municipalities would
review with the Bank, in April 1983, progress in project execution to date,
and in April of each year thereafter, progress in Project execution in the
previous twelve months, and the revisions that may be necessary to the
financing plans, such revisions to be used in the budget preparation
process of all executing entities (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 and
draft Project Agreements, Section 2.06). The appraisal mission verified
that federal, state and municipal counterpart funds would be available.
Formal confirmation that the approved 1982 budgets contain the required
funds was obtained at negotiations.
Procurement
58.       Experience under other Bank-financed projects in Brazil has shown
that foreign firms are unlikely to be interested in bidding for civil works
contracts worth less than US$4 million. Accordingly, all civil works and



- 22 -
goods for the project would be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank which permit the participation of foreign
firms. Studies and technical assistance would be contracted locally.
Disbursements
59.       Bank loan funds would be disbursed to cover 36% of consultant
services (including final designs, supervision, technical assistance, and
studies) and 36% of civil works and equipment. For the disbursements of
the Bank loan, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with
an initial deposit of US$600,000, which is the estimated Bank's share of
project expenditures for the initial three-months period (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 2.02(c)-(g)). Disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditures submitted by SDU/MINTER certifying AUMEF and
CONDER disbursements to the executing agencies for civil works and
consulting services and discriminating the component involved, the relevant
contract, the location of the works or services, and the amount disbursed.
Detailed documentation supporting the statements of expenditures (including
contracts, supervision reports, certification of work completed, and
disbursements by AUMEF and CONDER) would be kept by the metropolitan
planning agencies, for review by Bank supervision missions. SDU/MINTER has
demonstrated its capacity to operate such a system under the Medium-Sized
Cities Project.
Accounts and Audits
60.       It was agreed at negotiations: (a) that each executing agency
would maintain a project account, separate from its usual accounts, and
would make it available on request to AUMEF, CONDER, SUDENE, and SG/MINTER;
(b) that AUMEF and CONDER would maintain a consolidated project accounts;
(c) that SG/MINTER would arrange for annual audits of the separate project
accounts and the consolidated project account by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (d) that SG/MINTER would submit such audits to the
Bank not more than six months after the close of each fiscal year; and
(e) that not later than four months after the end of the fiscal year, the
Central Bank would provide to the Bank the results of an audit of the
Special Account by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. In
addition, the auditors would examine the statements of expenditure
submitted with disbursement applications and would verify and certify that
they were supported by adequate documentation and reflect properly incurred
expenditure for legitimate project purposes (draft Loan Agreement, Sections
4.02 and 4.03, and draft Project Agreements, Sections 4.01 and 4.02).
Project Implementation
61.       The management system for this project has four levels corre-
sponding to the different levels of responsibility for project execution.
The first level comprises the responsibility for overall project execution
and quality control. This is a federal government responsibility and would
be exercised by SUDENE acting as the agent of SDU/MINTER, by whom this
responsibility has been formally delegated by ministerial declaration. The
second level comprises the direct management responsibility for the
project, including ensuring that timetables and budgets are adhered to,
that designs and contracts are produced, and that works and programs are
executed satisfactorily. This would be carried out by AUMEF and CONDER.
The third level comprises the agencies that would actually be responsible
for organizing the execution of works and programs -- the executing



- 23 -
agencies. The fourth level comprises the responsibility for executing
specialized works. This would be carried out by private or public
companies such as consulting firms, contractors, public utilities, or even
municipalities.
Assessment of the Agencies
62.       SUDENE's responsibilities under this project would be carried out
by the Coordenacao de Desenvolvimento Urbano (CDU). CDU has a team of 13
professionals that has been working on this project since the early stages
of preparation. This team has followed the development of the project and
is fully acquainted with the components and the executing agencies. The
CDU team can also count on the support of SUDENE's engineering and income
creation groups, although the latter is somewhat weaker. The CDU team
will, therefore, obtain specific professional advice from the federal
sector agency, CEBRAE (Centro Brasileiro de Apoio a Pequena e Media
Empresa).
63.       Both AUMEF and CONDER have substantial experience, in managing
projects, including, for CONDER, managing the Bank-supported First Urban
Transport project. CONDER has a sound administration and contract systems
for works execution. AUMEF also has a sound administrative system. The
state of Ceara is in the process of setting up a development fund to
support investments in the RMF to be managed by AUMEF (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 7.02 (c)). The project is small, and CONDER's and
AUMEF's existing management systems are adequate for its execution. A
project coordinator, reporting directly to the superintendent and
President-Director of the respective agencies, would be assigned to assume
direct responsibility for each subproject. On the basis of the experience
acquired with this project, a management structure would be proposed to
implement the larger future project. All other executing entities (e.g.,
the municipalities) to be involved in project execution, have adequate
legal and organizational structure, adequate experience in the type of
operation that they will have to carry out, and all have adequate
upper-level management to control execution of their components. It was
confirmed at negotiations that the two states and four municipalities
would, in cooperation with CONDER and AUMEF, respectively, establish and/or
maintain management and coordination systems adequate to ensure effective
performance (draft Project Agreements, Section 2.08).
Cost Recovery and Affordability
64.       In this project, a variety of cost-recovery mechanisms will be
used depending on the type of component involved. For land regularization
and legalization in squatter settlements, all costs would be recovered from
the beneficiaries through monthly payments. For water and sewerage,
connection fees and monthly water and sewerage charges would cover all
direct costs, in accordance with the tariff legislation of the PLANASA,
with the possibility of some cross-subsidization of relatively small
consumers benefitting from the project through the operation of progressive
tariffs. Costs for sanitation installations would be recovered directly,
in the form of monthly payments. Storm drainage and street improvements
would be recovered partially and indirectly through property taxes. The
sanitary landfill would be 100% recovered from garbage collection fees.



- 24 -
The urban services center in the project area of Fortaleza would be almost
totally recovered through rental fees. These cost recovery arrangements
were confirmed at negotiations (draft Project Agreements, Section 2.09).
Non-recoverable items include the community facilities in both the Salvador
and Fortaleza projects, studies, and technical assistance. Cost of
facilities and training programs to be provided under the employment
component would be partially recovered through user or client fees.
65.       The issue of affordability is applicable mainly to the upgrading
components. Survey data demonstrate that the low-income families who will
benefit from the upgrading components have sufficient income to cover the
project expenditures, which will not exceed the 25% of their income which
they currently spend on housing. In addition, one of the objectives of the
project is to gauge the impact of the different types of upgrading on
household budgets. Results of this monitoring and evaluation exercise
would be incorporated in the future project.
Project Benefits and Urban Poverty Impact
66.       The project would prepare future metropolitan development
projects geared to promote an integrated approach to the urban problems of
the metropolitan regions of Salvador and Fortaleza. Given the large
proportion of studies and technical assistance, as well as the relatively
small size of the civil works components, no economic rate of return was
calculated.   The urban poverty impact for the employment generation and
pilot infrastructure components was estimated at about 88%. For the
overall project, including studies and technical assistance, the urban
poverty impact is estimated at 60%.6/
Risks
67.       The project involves risks with respect to the continuity of
political commitment and to the realization of its ultimate goals, i.e., to
generate future metropolitan development projects for the RMS and the RMF.
There is also a risk of possible delays in the execution of the project,
due to the change in state and municipal governments in March 1983. It is
expected, however, that the objectives of this project will continue to be
valid and that any modifications or change in emphasis on priorities could
be introduced in the larger, future project itself. In addition, both the
federal government's commitment and the country's economy will require
continued attention to the urban areas of the northeast.  This, together
with the stake of the metropolitan planning agencies in the project,
minimize the project risks and render them acceptable.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between SUDENE, the State
of Bahia, CONDER, the Municipality of Salvador and the Bank, the draft
6/   The urban poverty impact is defined as the percentage of project costs
applied to works and services for the poor.



- 25 -
Project Agreement between SUDENE, the State of Ceara, AUMEF, the
Municipality of Fortaleza and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Conditions of
loan effectiveness would be that the state of Ceara has established a
Metropolitan Development Fund and has passed a decree corresponding to the
Federal Law No. 85.916 giving AUMEF legal authority to coordinate
investments in the metropolitan region, and that subsidiary agreements
between SUDENE and CONDER atid AUMEF have been signed.
69.       The signing of a convgnio between CONDER or AUMEF and the
executing entities would be a condition of disbursement for each project
component. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
the Annex III.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
July 15, 1982
Washington, D.C



-26-                                            ANNEX I'
Poe I of 5
AuZIL - SRUIAL INDICATOS DATA BH815
LAaiL RIEUNA                                   (WEIGHTED AV6UjCU8
LAND   AgLKA    IflOUUAJO   SU.   KM. 1                                           -___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___
TUIAL           SS12.0                                HUST ugE1T             KIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCUME
ACP1CULTUgAL    2U77.2              1960  j     1970 & ESTIMATI       LATIN AKEICA 6 CAU1BSSAN          CUSOPE
UHY PEL  CPllh.A  US                 320.0       570.0    1780.0 *                1616.2                    2609.1
(f1WGAMANK UF WAL PuER   ALKIT     392.1       565.0    1061.5                  1324.1                   2368.4
PUPULUATWN ANh VITAL STATISTICS
PNPULATIOU, KID-YEUA (THOUSANDS) 71513.0    95322.0  116539.0 *
UiMAN PUPULATIUN (PEECENT uf TOTAL) 4b.1        55.9      64.1                    64.2                     53.2
POPULATIUN P6UJECTITUh
PUPULATION IN YEAM 2U0U (KILLIUN6)                     176.5
STATIUNUAY PUPULATILN (MILLIUNS)                       281.0
YLAg STATIONARY PUPULATION IS EKACHEDI                2U75
PUPULATIUh UE6SITY
PSI sq. Km.                        8.4        11.2      13.7                    34.3                     60.6
1'E. SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    44.1        50.5      55.1                    94.5                    133.9
PUPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERLINT)
U-14 Yg6.                         43.6        42 7      41.5                    40A7                     30.1
15-64 YR6.                        53.8         54.3      55.1                    55.3                     61.5
e5 Y5S. ANU AbUVE                   2.6         3.0       3.4                     4.0                      S.3
PUIULATIUN GUWTIH KATE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                              3.0         2.9       2.2                     2.4                      1.5
1U8N                               5.5         4.8       3.8                     3.7                      3.1
LPiUDE bIRTH KATE (PER THIUSAND)    42.5        37.0      29.4                    31.4                     22.9
CRUUD  DEATH HATE E(PE  THOUSAND)   12.9        10.5       8.7                     8.4                      9.1
GROSS IEPRUDUCIUWN RATE              3.0         2.6       2.0                     2.3                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNlNG
ACCEPTORK. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       111.0    203.6
WEH61 (PENLENT Uf MARIED WOHEN)   ..           1.6
FUOl) AND NUTRITIUM
lNDEX UF FOOD PRUDUCTIWN
2EVt CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.0       102.0     114.0                   108.3                    119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY oF
(ALOXIES (PERCENT UF
gUINIMTS)                      101.0       104.0    107.2                    107.6                    125.7
PRUTELNS (GA1S PEnl DAY)          61.0        62.0      62.7                    65.8                     92.5
UF WHICH ANLIAL AND PULSE       34.0        34.0      35.1                    34.0                     39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) M)MTALITY RATE     11.3        12.0       8.3                     7.6                      3.4
HEALTH
LIVE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEAES)   54.7         59.1      62.7                    64.1                     68.9
INFANT HIRTALITY KATE (PER
THUUSAND)                          12S.0          ..      92.0                    70.9                     25.2
ACCESS TU SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PUPULATION)
TUTAL                               ..        56.3      77.1                    65.7
UgSAN                               ..        77.7      88.8                    79.7
KUA,L                               ..        29.0      56.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCAETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TUTAL                               ..        59.9      64.8                    59.9
U6SAN                               ..        86.1      83.7                    75. 7
RURAL                               ..        26.5      31.7                    30.4
POFULATIUN PEV PHYSICLAN          2561.2      2123.8   1700.0                   1728.2                    973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2772.1      2992.3        ..                  1288.2                    896.6
POPULATION PEK HOSPITAL 8ED
TOTAL                            307.0       2b9.0    247.7                    471.2                    262.3
URBAN                            325.6       322.6        ..                   558.0                    191.8
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        18.0        ..                      ..                     18.2
1Q6.0 INC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.1         4.8       4.9
URBAN                               ..         4.6       4.7
6URAL                               *-         5.2       5.3
AVERAGE NUIBER OF PE6SUNS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.1
URBAN                               ..         1.0
gilkAL                              ..         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
Of DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             38.7        47.6      63.0
URUA                                ..        75.6      84.9
MURAL                               *-         8.4      19.2



-27 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDL  INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATIQN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        125.0       88.0/c                  101.7                     105.9
MALE                  97.0       125.0       87.O7;                  103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                93.0       125.0       88.077                  101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         26.0       24.0/c                   35.3                      66.3
MALE                  11.0        26.0       22.07o                   34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                10.0        26.0       26.0'7                   35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  19.0          17.0       47.0/cd                  30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0         28.0       22.0/e                   29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                          13.0         13.0       13.073'                  15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0        66.2       75.7                     80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         24.4       53.6                     42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.4        123.8     155.0                     215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         16.8         64.0       97.9                     89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  54.0         37.0       45.2                     62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0           1.9        1.9                      3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22869.1       30078.5   36718.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   17.5         20.4      22.6                      22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.9         45.6       39.8                     35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.8         18.3      21.8                      23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0        31.6       31.5                     31.8                      42.3
MALE                                  52.7        50.3       48.9                     49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                                11.2        12.8       14.2                     14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.4        1.4                      1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
fERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0          63.5      62.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8           3.2        2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8           9.0        9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..      150.0                    187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URaAN                                ..           ..     465.0                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      332.0                    362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                        .. -
RURAL                                 ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 19bO refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educationd cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years;' therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data;  /d 1974;  /e 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in the
1981 World Atlas are US$2,050 (at 1978-80 prices) and 119 billic.
April 14, 1982



-28-                                                                      ANNME I
'.'of  5
Uft. Althool  tho dot. sf0 dO.mM  fo.m  -.0.00     POWNoo17 Jodad 0h- Mfg aoOhOOtstl.  oud                      ith.O    t ho I .0,0100 ..h  gotod that tOo? MY~ 000 hO LuOu
matim,.lly oomp-b1. hot.... of oh. Lash mi nmaindialod doftti.tloi           .  oo.apo-ow so  byI dlIf.oout emmstr1low 10 mooUoctl.  oh. dat..  lb. dat. a00. .s-
tb.loOo. .041f.1 to d.darib. 0.4.0. of 00.010d4, 10dut. trodS., gOd tholoot.00..  IItalt, 0.1j0 d1ffWomrs  btotw aost000010.
II. 0.....-  &oop. .oe (1) the MM 4toofY 7 po     of tho tobjot eonlyto i     (2)    Mostly poop tith  .~Ao t M1OS  o,of40  tocato 010. Ok. aott7 Ps"
,f hu.ohjwt oo 0000   (ontpt loo "Capit.l looplos O11 ImPrt-0  poop oh... 9tUdLO lowow Eotht 60..& mod 004db  3..t' L. ohoos                              of0.00  00105
golo1ot.1.1.fl101tims..  1. th. .01 -.1.             stoop 4..  h.  -raMw9 mr. p lop..tiso o.4h..d -n1th-o  o. - 0.0  ~ho  1.41m.0.  mod 0-  .01y oh0
_.ojotly of thu Co0.0001. .  Io o  lop how dot. fo. that iadlooto.  30.. th. 00101090 of ootul10.    .ot th. td.dltOlo. d.Pd.  00 thu IIIItLLObItof dams.
and 1n.t -I fo.   ooootlow        t 0.0 ho ozrofod 1. C.I.tl.o   ve-Ps, Of o   tditoOt- to aboth.?.  Thars,  ...00   000 orm ly .-toIG  10a        000   tho vaol. of
som Lodil... to ati11. nflm th,0 .teaty mod rof-mars, P-e..
LAN 008  (thao.o .     qh.                                                                         Oa1tO    0   ooOo.o     ttl   ta.  o   oo   PoPootims, (totol.
lotzl -   100   ......0510.410   o   oU modto..                                                    oo. OS ,o.1)   OvO     by thI w              ti ot o.5ol    o  f Ma.pltl, h.do
- 1.010..of .ooooo.   00   od t-Pol.otly orvl poonontly                            .t.11.hl. It phbi.  W0 prIwt. Ponmao .04 .potl.itod hospltul a"d To-
a,o Crops, Powtooco, tothot 04 klOth.m tuod-Oo o  to lie fallono  1973 date-                    hohtlitatloo   wtout.?..   opOl   0   o.10o.pooty                       0f
by ot 1.00 t. a-     106    3.t"ll1.. p00,141.9 po1tdeo1lY tot.-
MPU  15_01_ 10331 - anPs, topir. **w.t*mts  00 .otOtot sorhot Pl1us.. 11-                         d10tlO Car* at. ME   tlOdd.  hotel hospitals. btoor.m tatlodo hoslth
tolated by somn  tu,othow nothod oo Wor14 hok 4t100 (1977-79 h.ot.) a 1960.                       .04todoo  o0t... sot p.-toooutlyoffd. by . ph7041. (On by 
1970. mOS 1979 dot..                                                                               .dtI  .1.tooo   oo..41.   t.  At   f  t1-oln    4m
dotl. mOS p,o?OAo 4 lIWLtd   -P004   ofoditol foollitLa..  100 *ttlO-
00300  100308100 PU   0101  - A00.01 000505010 of  romonootolmnoy (toal                      01001 P.."000 oobo. boopitslo  tuoloda 09.p0.lplbo.o  hospitals.
OS l1~.1to. pottl.o..oooooI ....  bydoc-.Imoo. OSd oootho...  ale-                        OSd -..I bo.pl.olo 100.1 Wt -otl hospitals Oas modtitat OS tootomlo
trlotttyl to 60105..m' Pf foot Oq.lolot Par CwpIt0.1 1900. 1970. and 1979                        00t.00..  Spowit1.olod ba.vlt.10 000 1.01.4   only Od.. total.
0iAAdiliIido4odh      bth  Y00.  of bed.
1005MR     ltO.M 04(d1NI,HXob.o.o0d) - A. of J.lY 1; 1960. 1970. 6.4 1979                      009
Uthn  .0 1.0   =10.foto  f1  000.11  - Lt..010 of bah. to t0.1.  popolatiof.t,sbl  anlO   30soo   ftllsl  o.co.loo  q,so'
Jotf(*tout d.fllooo   o  oho  00  maY  Wafll 0.PO.TblhlIty of do.u                              aod t1101  01. smalO.  A 000.-0 or 15g0t toy Ofty0 tot ho kltodod  is1
n.    ont0;19600, 1970,  aS 1979 dat..                                                 thu h-nehold for stot.tinftl poto.oC .
L-, HIRit.I iA. 110 I ! . 0 - C. I Ito bP,l  o    rj.looo.bo    n19                            boo   O.o   o  O0  0ol0h. o..0I001P-ooCiO Io&                       nlse
o.1ppL,ooWu    Sto04   11    Y.J.ti ... ... fbolIt  tot..                                dooolloOo  topt1,l            .11 W.ot   uld    onpo,ototnttoO
109   f.  9npot.*oy at birth boooo  with oo.tuoy'. pot copit. I.I.,                         o.0.4 totoolt   aootfd.l0o1-.0.wh..  OS000 
Loon1, mOS fon1. lif.  o.t.p-oty  t.bill.1.0 00 77.5 yw..t.  lb. p....                        Cn0t0l  oLllI.               1 w Ith  Motoltt     Ifti1110  9-or.ttt  00Pow00to1
tot.t  fot fortllity lot. 01.0 ho.. ltb.. 1-191                 dwsll 401.. 10                of total. -tbo. .      tdo,.l dvIL.lIat  t..pactirLIy.
tootfllty 000008105 to 10-00. l.ol  nd past foully ploonlo  potf-o,.ao.
toob   -C 00017t  thea  0.13i004 tO of thogo .1- 000010,t1000  of tootlity                     LO
mOS f.otilO it t1od. foo prjo oPuopo.. .adO o.Ood Iftol).aott PA10
S00oot  aolto   losn          h  d-aohoo tyPpolITlon Obt. 1.0  MOt   Irw Kb .1..               tOtOhol 0 00 .itol  OS (p                   - Gr0s. totol, tol  od  fnool
thu  ttobtot.1. ooolto  th  41thrP 100,.0 I1.  th % i:   .tBotot  ..-                     ouoloooo  .10    00 0t0 P,tooy 10,1 so Punto.ts.. of b.-Pottb.
toss toootaot.  mhl. 1. a1hlo,d only af t., fotolltoy lots. do.0110 .0                          p000.`  Otbool-oto P0m.1"010001 morm117 1ml.014         hblldrs .d 0-11
thu  Ioloto  l.v..  of ..10 000 I.Prsdusti.. ro.. oh..  -ho  Powntitl.                          y..o  boo  j.d .tod f.t diflf 300.00  10.01ofPrimly aSooctimon  4 0
of  nnt. l.IOOgO  10t01f .owtly.  lb.  tatimoory Popoltima  L.. wao                             w0000   ith 0011000010d0ti010  ourolIft toy aoosd lOt P-000.0
.000t.0d do t10 hoot. of oth. pol.JtodS ohool.ti.til. of 01  popoaltloo                       01000 sm0. popils 0.0  be o-  oh,  . the o9ff otl0.1001m p8.
th.01  y..r 2000. .0d th. lot, of 4001100 Of f-ttilty  to t. to tll..-                      0000.0  011            1010. 001.0   fnl. - Coopotod 00 ObobO  W00.17y
Twootsolo        OoI.tL.    I. o.oobd - The yost whom otootoooy popoltlom                         Pro,VI4   Posta.11  vooatioa.., 0100. M000108  10stro40000   for puplb
01.0 ho. ho.,, 0.oohsd.                                               osoel~~~~~~~ly of 12 to 17 lo"t, of Its  ooottopoodam. o - 0010   000 90.00.117
PoOol.tloo Donolo,                                                         ono~~~~~~~~~~~~~.CLodod.
v u   -  fftd-y       P" ioooloop0;  41  11....00 1100 haot .... ) of                     .lotl,olonloon    f.oodrl-Ptslo2   .tttclsoo
totol 0.5;.  19,  1970  5  197901.144  tho.i tnoo.1.                                                                              0  oh           amsOO    whims oP ..t. lModpowd
Pot o.  10. .Olotrlo.ad   Co.p'tad 00 sho..0 for ani-oot.o1 loSd                                 -tly or .g dop-t-t.ol   f sa.000-y0  Iatituidam.
o Ly;10,170 .   1973 do..;oI-Oo.  01      0..  IOpopso      00  .0040t. .00110d i0
Vs0.10 r.00 ft:ro,o,t  Coo;totO   Child,"11   (0-14 70...).  w-kIlo.Asso (15-                                  an.0    S  004071,1 W 41,0404 by o oT. of 00000   01
I4lo .)      i Stt104COys.  OS..  ov) Is poooonlooo. of ..d-poor po..-                      ooltoPudSt   ltt.1..
1.0100; 1960. 1970. OS 1979 040.tSl.1000?00                                                                             Laooo   - L1000..  o1to  NbohIC toad.0  sOS  Wt.o)
Gotato  bOh 3.C. I"         lawcot l-001 - 0omsl gouoth  too., of tOral ald.                    I0 P00.0t09  01 000.1 aSoOt PpwLtOl.oo ogd 10 7dsfw. 4 wool.
7001 p.O.IoOlooo lot I90-0  1607.        1970-9.
P0~.0100.0 1000   .0  0111 : -l to.,.bo   - osit.th l.t.. of  ltbs POP,,-                    c0o919StTt0
w010 ot 1,950_60, 19607.'O.0   1907.10000   .0(etOooS  oadt                                                                                 - P0050  o.. 0051100.0000
COoSg. Oltoh 3.00 loojtMoaea)- A-1o. lIt. httohu P-  thotood Of nd-yon                            000-tosonO I     o$ I h.. 010bLPII00    ol.. -oo0o, has. soo  OS"
P0o.  olow10.17.O    199 dotsi .t     _                                                         .1110007 0th.hlo ..
'P"o000,3.0fo  Cho doS   - All-14.tu   o  th.sood. of  id-yost                         3.41  30t1... 1 otMinim oe1.l,1   All typot of 0.0.1,000   - or                  i.41
PP100019017. L"      OS 107  an.                                                       htoost  00 5..11Poollt Pa1 Oho.o  of Popoltl-   -...l _o   0
It..3.tdoottoo  Cat-0tg            .b.r -E 4."ght". I 000  will boat 10                        ILtoo.d 1a.0.1.0. i0 Oo500           dO L. 70000 tho  103g001t00, of 00410
hut  o .a1 t2 tTdocv  p001d it  b.0  wmp_tI_a.o  p_ttout I..Po flo                            mo0t   0000   Is 000.00; dot. dot 10000 70010.07 -to  ho Coot..hl. mi.o
011101 10000; aooslIy ftv-2o  .,....Sm.0"i.100 t   9G00. 1970  am  1079.                toOt 000t0010  bhulOhad 100.001"..
fouly 110.1.  - AoOttl..  -.4.  (tho... W.)  A- 08,1 ohtf00001                              3000.ot .0,.osd nolo Tl    1  leabI-  00 fboI.. do..t 10
ofhoh-000  dooo..dt   .O...-.     of i010.  f-LIyP580   1340                          oe    ol. P00thmaSpoo.lt                    -I;.:-S.  w01100.004 19TV  0,1
000111 11.00 .   loorcoto ~~~of .0010    Ioot  - F00.--0  of o.0.I.0                     10   -.If..o  od to yot 1.hotO.otnof10.tt      *t
ton..of o114-hsrl.  030111-0  o..ol  ho ... bhltlhCostoo    d.,l.I to              -000o   ttootofotOosS  aooIa                           s- SS   thr.  0001
011  -Ott.d 00o.0  10 moss 000 30P.                                                             colotlo. 01 "117.l  Postal 1000100  osompap00',  dOfIOS 00 0 Potlod1,o
Po.hl toool0  do,td PT1.00117 t0 1000d410   Pon.10   0.00.  It 10 00.0140004
1000 4100 0111011001                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~to ho "dolly" if 10 appmar. orI0 a 1 f0.  tol01000a 0k.00
ISo. of  05 ltodootoo tot00010. 19 69-Yltl) - 004d  of P00 007100  -001              Cbs. .A00001 Atotoudsn 0t10010  01-T              - 00.04od -oh. -ob0o  of
pt4.olo    f  1  fo  Co. mv-100   Ptdootlo  oold40  wood OSd 1.04 OSd                  oloot. Iod "o10"  thC yt                im,oda  odoboloss, to d*.I-L.tommos,
L.oC  ..lOoodl y0..  0.1i..  CmosdiOlo.ov-- p110.0, goods. log. .0t-5                           wad tobil. -i10..
Lost =  of 00151  whI.h o10 *dibl. .0d 0000.10 0t0,1.01   (o... ..of 0 0OS
P.,.Pios,t:- .. p.150..0 prio. wolgh,o; 1961-65. 1070. 004 1979 4.t0.                         101110010lht..      oootoly000   000.toS
P.o 00.0. 0.00, of 01201100 l   tt.to   .otu,.   Co.ptod0 lroon                           coo   lt..  5   o         0   b.t -0 d.1010  homm-ft-, 0004000   000..,
0001y oqoiolost f01 0 R0 f        .od   wupl.f_. sollshl  is cootot  P., ..Plo                oo.f  Pp.P.IoOlo  of 011 5300. 00fL.Ittt.    10  -1000  cotOtlom I00
Y00doy.  Avllolhb. "0111100 .00711.. a-oOl   tSOI..0              Io0 ...                    000 .oopolbl.; 1960. 1370 OS 1979 4.t
Importt. OS .d10h00.00  000.0,   0  osPIpi:.. .0 d1S000        1 faOS. wo0d..               781.        tn,! Awt  - Op1. lobot fo.  0090000000    of 000.1 1.10? lovt..
'L0011. 0.04 L. 1go4 P         i0...o, OS loo. On diOtlibtOiot. 5.4q11-                 AoIo)4o          1.0) -labor 1f00. i0,8 000105. 1000007  hoot05 mOS
tot-'L      00.00  by  00  oO   C0 ;hy.Lolo.ool I .o.lt.oo   01                                1h4~~~o..o   0.   ao   E00.  160. 1970 OS 1979 dot..
otty .d hoolth oo..d10001    oo,iro, tl t0om"tOt.., body 0.ight., 050                       00dst00  (oorgpt) - Lobol tot.. 10 018105              MC010100  to0000-0010s
a.d 0o- diliOtihOooo1p0100. f.0   .101010 potent l. o.t  . *0                                 .d ol.tvlty. fOota  .d 90: 4            '. 10.009  of 000.1. labor fo....; 1900.
hou..h.ld 100.1; 1961-65. 1970. 0d 1977dt.0.                                                  1970 .0d 1979 d.tO.
Ao 01.001   f em.tol  Igoo  too dyy) - 1100008 .00.00 of Ps.o copIti                     paOlOOtt-O. 00   otto      00.gt.  OS Iplo I   lotiip.ttOo or
0*0 osu   l  of fod po  ..Y.  900 I.op        f food 1s 400flOS 0. obo..  R.-                  .-oL.tOy rot.. oto 05..     5 00 000.1.I0M10. OS Inmlo  lobo  lo... ..
ooltouooo  for .11  oOt. .ooobliohwd by USDA P10-1d. lof.            o. aiwi0.m0otaga  of tot.1. "I0 s   f                               .Po1 . t990000  ol11 `so  0P.O`oy
.100.  f60 goon  of 00...1 p00.1.. L901 day 004 20 SC0   f1 .0I001 0d                  1960. 1970i. mOS 1979 da...1001  bmwodS 00 1L             pol 91010p00 tOtO
olepo.oof w0,1,h 10 toos .. .1 d1 b. .otool polT. h... 0504                          oolotg0000*to..o   109p000.O    0908   tS 
old. 000 1.000 than than of 75 o   o    t00.  prt0.0 sod 23 or... of                  I.otIno.  l  (o    to.1Sooc
.000.1 potolt .  so ov.Ogo lot  10 8 d00 . ytpood by 100 to oh. rh118                                        ;.R01    OoSo,.1   ..001  .. 9090100100 OSd- 11 wOS 65 OS 000
00,1  lo   S-ooY; 1961-65. 1970 mod 1977 000.-                                             t0  01  00.  Labo  fOO
lotCmit 100t00 010001 o,ots It. ooll 05d ml.. -P-to.8 gopply of food d.-
r1004 fr. too  01.1    P.04910  10 glass P.t daY; 1961-65. 197  .0d 1977 do;..            00(005 OISTINUOTO
Child bo.1-4,1 001.110Y 3.0. opt 010-000)    - 501 d.oth. P.1  h0,000d 00                       Pgloonoooo $f 10,000 ...    ..100   0 10    Id  - I..00.0 by Itoh.,,
Y0 007  -  lo.. to ChilId-  I. thI00 otooy  fot IC00 d-1,olo., C0o0-                                        t ooO     1,4.0 0   p0,0 ,9010  20 p.,d0   .0  p07i  0  ptd
0100  0.,. d001004 ft.. 1100 t.b10.; 1i960. 1970 .00 1970 d00..                                 of hoobold..
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lO? 109007 00010
40bOoth; 190T97   1   9)   oo                                                                      I    d4 0,0.1 ho   t-o0l.od wi00 Cotsid.r.blt.aO.
101mst vlottolt          il0lottao )- A0.01 dtb h 1  nf ifotto 00.1d.0 yow   -                  Ztiootod             P.-Ioo OOt, ltoto 1*01 (US9 001 0p1t.) - tbO    OSd mr001l
01 .. t 11   botood 11,0. bhlrth..                                                              AbooI0tg I-rl0y 10.0.  lo-.1 is 0100 Lon  10001 boln  01.0,I a.1-100a
4,0.0.00  .10 Wotto1001,000   Fboo.10,to1         Iht   5000    N~8-                      ootrintlollly  d.87t00  dtto pl1    ....   i.1olo  to--fo   r.qult.mot.0  0. eat
hCut of 7P011  Itotl.110.   04toa)  10 no.oh- -boao.o  o  s.                                      oofotdbl..
000*0  -op Yoly  100t .oold       groo00000 t C        tt.C   odSbOootal o                    1.01t.d0  1.1001- 1000-, 0L0000,100   1  400   orhb    St0 -d    I
000   oh  ota   1.  00.041011..   Ptn.,a .0107v1). -sol rl-o,. 0t007                                                     o-n1011    .n. ph         i 0   ltot)  90- ap
holotot  o      f001   oyot     bopohtlo.,    n. ota   000 uipr.oo   on   1O.oottL Iy.                                          0t.1,11  41,4toOhtta
Ps, ..... 00- .00f  0   1000000P-  0L0000  0100 20   -0000   -ton   Iota.bl 0110r.01 010,od)0nn   or0100cotot11  0d ofh                                           p- .0p8t.
ft00t40100  101                                                                                  P.C.hl.0.0o   ht  00.   0110   00  IoInodPto ItO     oto *0,001000Urb 0,100 0000  100.1  Intonlb) - 1oh
t.a.otslo   4p,..     I.0.1    bod 01t  00,0 th.o. 200 mothoro of- I 1 h onbld00  110 1                   001000 00       4 poootO  Cotho f0 l otal) I ho - 1  "00
dont10   0ood0dgtyotL.olo   ftodyI  fonhIt  .10                                                001'.         d
Id00000  ofi. 00000h1.900 --bl.tlOg   totht h-...s  gos 10104
Oh  oloto    0   1900,_t  0   11,  onttont,of00001-LOt                                                                                PtoooIcO   Santa) 1..  to:       l
:.04 0bl0t    ....0 by   1dtt-hal,. syOtoz  00.1  Ohf. 00  sof 71- ftho  ..0h5t01-1    ..                                       000.00        !:cr00   tlooo.Oo,tet
O.laLtO  ,1004ft             t  0001..            E ...loo O   1tdi1.    I- -d
lOoath.   0001 I'll10 Id   0000    it   r Ppobtho" 110  b,ooo  f h-   r00t0c1d01001  .C
bloodfo       t ogtdo r.no.   y.,  rt. poa0101 f0000 i,0  pI..000a sod mt..0.                                                                   f.      1..D



- 29 -                                                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population     :  119.0 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita;  USS2,050 (1980)
Amount                    Average Annual Increase (2)               Share of GDP at Market Prices (2)
Indicator                      (Million USS Current)              (at Constant 1970 Prices)                       (at Currecnt Prices)
1980              1965-70   1970-75   1975-80   1981-86        1970    1975    1979    1980 /b   1985
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product /a                            248,200                7.7      10.6        6.9        6.0       101.0   100.0   100.0   100.0        100.0
Agriculture                                         23,365                1.9       5.7        4.7        5.2         8.2     8.7      9.4      9.4       9.4
Industry                                            71,590               9.2       11.6        7.6        5.9       29.1    32.6    31.8    28.8         31.8
Services                                           111,365               8.0       10.7        6.8        6.2       43.0    41.3    42.5    44.4         42.5
Consumption                                          201,040                7.7       9.8        5.7        5.7        76.9    78.6    79.8    80.5        76.3
Gross Investment                                      52,460                9.4      14.6        5.2        6.0        23.5    25.4    22.6    21.1        22.9
Exports of Goods and NFS                              21,305                8.2      11.2        7.3        8.2         6.6     7.4      8.2      8.6       9.7
Imports of Goods and NFS                              26,575              14.5       17.2        2.8        5.9         7.0    11.4    10.6    10.7         8.9
Gross Domestic Savings                              47,160               7.9       12.9        6.1        -         23.1    21.4    20.2    19.5         23.7
Amount                    Average Annual Increase (X)              Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(Million US$ Current)             (at Constant 1970 Prices)                        (at Current Prices)
1980              1965-70         1970-75         1975-80      1966        1970         1975        1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                  20,132                 7.8            11.9             5.8       10.0O      100.0         100.0      100.0
Primary                                            11,092                7.3             8.3              1.1       82.9        75.1         61.8        55.1
Manufactures                                        9,040                7.9            28.2             18.2        17.1       24.9         38.2        44.9
Merchandise Import                                   22,961               10.0             17.6            -1.4       100.0      100.0        100.0       100.0
Food                                                1,239               -3.8            -6.7             17.5        11.5        4.5          3.0         5.4
Petroleum                                          10.210                9.3             7.6              4.3        14.7       11.2         24.5        44.5
Machinery and Equipment                             4,392               22.1             15.2            -7.5        15.2       21.2         14.0        19.1
Other                                               7,120                8.3            28.4            -1.9        56.6        63.1         58.5        31.0
1975           1976           1977           1978           1979           1980
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 a 100)                                   305.1           444.3          632.7          892.5        1,399.4        2,724.6
Exchange Rate (CrS/USS)                                        8.1           10.6           14.1           18.1           26.9           53.5
Export Price Index (1970 - 100)                              176.0          192.0          226.0          228.0          266.0          290.0
Import Price Index (1970 - 100)                             242.0           255.0          286.0          317.0          389.0          431.0
Terms of Trade Index (1970 - 100)                            72.0            75.0           79.0           72.0           68.0           67.0
As 2 of GDP
(at Current Cruzeiro Prices)
1970            1975             1979 lb
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                                                   16.6            19.8              20.8
Current Expenditure                                                               14.4             15.8             17.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                         2.2             4.0               3.2
Capital Expenditure                                                                2.6             3.8               3.7
Financing (Net)                                                                   -0.4             0.2             -0.5
1965-70           1970-75           1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (X)                                                               7.7               10.7               5.8
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (2)                                                    4.6                7.7               3.0
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (2)                                                7.2                7.3               6,5
ICOR                                                                              2.9                3.0               3.9
Marginal Savings Nate                                                            20.5               25.7              22.7
Import Elasticlty                                                                 2.2                1.6'              0.3
/a   At market prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect
taxes less subsidies.
/b   Preliminary Economic Mision scheduled for May 1982 will update the fiscal data.
May 5, 1982



-30-
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t so
BALAINZ2 0o  PAMII, WI8NAL CAPITAL AND  INT9
(311, t  2lfo     agt oacueot p71646)
PoP2.tton,         119 .1ilton (1980)
GCP Per Ceptt.i  U092,050 (1980)
29-75   0976   ACTU L                    79S0         1981,ISU                        1             01v
8I1ant  ot Pa mont                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e
9io-xIAiiot ood.i ond .arvea                                        -6,702        -6,018       -',037       -6,086       -10,019      -12,566      -11,173           (-8,7709      (-7,933)    (-3,735)    (-4,095)         (-979)
EPorts of Saode                                                    (9,670)    (10,128)    (12,120)    (12,699)    (15,264)    (20,132)    (23,293)                  (27,757)    (32,770)    (98.740)    (45 143)   (92 596)
Import, of Gooda                                                  (12,210)    (12,383)    (12,023)    (13,683)    (18.084)    (22.955)    (22,080)                  (23,668)    (26,065)    (28,937)    (32 505)   (36.99)
Nat factor  .nce..                                                 -1,733       -2,189        -2,356       -3,257       -4,821        -6,621       -9,549            -9,687      -10,609       -11,397      -00.990    -11,103
(of which net interest paymnts)                                 (-0,698)     (-1.810)    (-2,103)    (-2,696)    (-6,189)    (-6,311)    (-9,179)                 ( 7,36)      (-,246)    (t-9,020)    (4,630)    -4*,3
Not non-fttof servte-                                             (-0,829)    (-1,376)    (-1,578)    (-1,803)    (-2,378)    (-3,120)    (-2,837)                  (-3,192)      Y3,62S)    (-4,041)    (-4,           (-969)
Not tranfers                                                               2            1             -           71           18          168           197               197          197           197          097         197
Corrent a00o0nt balance                                              -6,700        -6,017       -4,037       -6,015      -10,021       -12,396      -10,976            -8,573        -7,336       -5,330        -3,8          -702
Direct private loveet-ont /b                                            892           939          810        1,071         1.691        1,125         1,569             1.776        2,024        2,306         2,628       1.980
tlLS loan.  not                                                       4,830         3,362        5,630       10,018         5,297        3,473         9,571             9,96         8.307        6.981         9,74        3,212
Trgdttion.1  coorna                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~(903)  (.1617)  (0.039)          (1,3)  (,250)       (103           436               3224)       (5,023)       (16,96)      (494)       (  34
Sriogonal  oredit                                                  (6,027)      (7,013)       (6,224)    (13,7149    (00,478)        (89o90)    (13,113)           (09 962)    (10,936)    ((0,3790)    (12,0)14)   (02017
A.ortieetton                                                       (2,122)      (2,619)       (3 633)      (531,6)       (6,430)      (6,610)      (7,956)          (-7,190)    (-7,734)    (-9.354)   (-11027)   (13,089)
Sr-iliao  10.00  broad (net)                                           -190          -248         -267         -357          -608         -416          -702                 -            -             -            -           -
Oohen capittl n.e.i                                                     -62         1,829       -1,2498        -418         1,059        4,732         1,306           -1,638        -2.186       -2,802        -3,349     -*,060
Change in reservea  (-tncrase) /c                                        1,230       -2,065          -908       -4,299        2,782         3,680         -766              -560         -806          -960       -t,134      -1,610
Intarnatoinal    serv. /d                                               6,041         6,544        7,256        11,893        9,699        6,913         7,505             8,063        8,872        9,920        10,974      10,386
Raerve  a.  onth  ot i port/.                                                             6 3           7 2          3 9          66  2.8                    6 .               3.3             3          3.2          3            3.2
ACTUAL
1975         1976         1977          1978         0079         0980          2981
Et.-Iea Debt
Sotal deOt ooutr.odtng and dtabor.d                                  23,298        28,483       34,601       46,436        51,342       54,865    61.400 /t
PobiMc and pobitoly go.ranteed                                     13,706       17,349        21,595       30,286       35,478        38,260
Official soorca                                                   3,959        4,431         4,717        5 401        3,889         6.416
IR&D                                                          (1,093)       (0,217)      (1,613)      (1,602)       (1,827)      (2,069)            -
Other                                                         (2,866)       (3,216)      (3,304)       (3,799)      (4,062)      (4,347)
Pnineta  9orne                                                    9,747       12,918        16,878       23,883       29,389        31,844
Private .on-a.orantead                                              9,592       11,133        13,003       16,152        15,866       16,605
Undi.bhr.ed debt (p.b611  only)                                       3.879         6,620        8,411        10,209       12,648       14.041
Gros.  Diabor.enta
Total gro..  dlaboremennt of 80LT loans                               6,981         8,160        9,282       15,164        11,728       10,089
Pobic and pobli ly goar.oteed                                       3,788        4,921         3,422       10,116        9,152         6.893
Offictal epoort credits                                             428          405           169          490          648           467
18gD                                                               230          173           298          275          302           343            -
Other aeltil.tr-l                                                  119          113            92          136          206           192
Priotv engine                                                    2,991        4,233         4,862        9,216        8,197         5,892
Private non-g-aronted                                              3,196        3,239         3,861        S,048        2.576         3,192
Debt S.-I..
o0t01 debt aervice peyrcnt.                                          6,195         6,322        3.642        8,252        11,.47       23,168
Interest (nat)                                                    (1,677)      (1,423)       (1.651)      (2.457)      (3,553)       (3,412)
0.y7.0 at    X of teport. and NFS                                       39.6          36.2         39.6          54.2         59 8          54 9
Payaentr   e lot GNP                                                      2.9          2 6          3.0           3.7          4 3           6.8
Average .. lateet rate on the public debt (I) /I.                           8.7          7,6           8.3          9.9         11.2          12.3
Official  nourneC                                                         7,7          7.9           8.0          7,5          8.3          897
A-!, ectority of ne.  g-r-aotaed loan..                                     9.          11,3          10,0         10.0          11.5         10 3
onrical coorce                                                          08.*   16 16,3            16            14 5         14 0          13.6          -
Private Soorce                                                            7.0          9,3          8,7           9,3         11,2           9.3          -
TBD Rum/Gotel                                                             4.7          4 3           4,0          3 4          3 6           3.9          -
0990 dibhre-eete/total g.ree dtbhre-t. (0)                                3,5          2.1           3.2         108           2,6           3.4
099.D debt srvie/total debt sernire (2)                                   2.5          3,2           3,7          2.7          2.2           2,1          -
A. I of tonal debt o.ttanding
at end of Denber 1980          /h
neht St-crt-
Moturity tyrtct.r- of debt oouttndieg
9.tonitiee doe cithin 5 year.                                                                     67
torOtte dou  0ithi0   10 yeare                                                                     33
/a  tcie.te.
/b Encloding r0-iove.tod profits.
/   Etolodiog dollar veloetion adj*t-ent. and eoetit.tion of doestic Sold,
/d Itnl.ding gold cnd dollar v-tiatton *djuaeente.
/   Goode only.
/f Getails n-vailable.
/    o Yblic debt only,
/h Proviaiooed
So-rce,   Balance of Payeente Got. - Bt nco Caotral do Brasilo E.t.rnal Debt Date - EYD
Key 3. 1982



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                                  1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power              125.0           3.3
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0          16.0
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5           7.5
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways           175.0           2.1
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads              110.0          16.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          13.0
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0          21.7
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0           3.2
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0          14.1
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0            7.6
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0          32.0
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture         40.0           9.7
1300   1976  Eletrobras                         Power               50.0           0.8
1302   1976  Brazil                             Nutrition           19.0           2.0
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply        40.0           0.1
1317   1976  Brazil                             Agro-Industry       83.0          59.6
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                          Power               82.0          17.5
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development  42.0           10.5
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          52.0          11.7
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do              Fertilizer          55.0           1.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                             Education           32.0          22.7
1488   1977  Brazil                             Rural Development  17.0           12.1
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage           110.0          75.9
1537   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  24.0           19.5
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                         Power              130.0          64.9
1557   1978  Brazil                             Roads              114.0          88.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                            Petrochemicals      85.0          14.1
1563   1978  Brazil                             Urban Transport    88.0           36.4
1568   1978  Brazil                             Agric. Extension  100.0           76.5



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   37.0           28.5
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0             65.9
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0             85.7
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.           Aluminum              78.8          11.5
1714    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   26.0           23.7
1720    1979  Brazil                          Urban Development   70.0           61.5
1721    1979  COPEL                           Power                109.0         84.9
1728    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   40.0           35.2
1729    1979  Brazil                          Irrigation            28.0         18.6
1730    1979  Brazil                          Roads                110.0        100.6
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control   58.0           58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                 Water Supply         130.0         115.0
1824    1980  CEEE                            Power                114.0        114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport    159.0          155.8
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply           139.0         120.1
1867    1980  Brazil                          Education             32.0         30.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   63.0           61.3
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                       Power                125.0        124.7
1924    1981  Brazil                          Rural Development   56.0           53.0
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                 54.0         52.6
1965    1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport       90.0         90.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply           180.0        168.1
1989    1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Devt.       250.0         250.0
2015    1981  Brazil                          Agriculture           29.0         29.0
2016    1981  Brazil                          Agriculture           60.0         57.0
2060 /1 1982  Brazil                          Agriculture           67.0         67.0
2061 /1 1982  Brazil                          Health                13.0          13.0
2062 7T  1982  Brazil                         Highways             240.0        240.0
2116 _1 /3 1982 Brazil                        Agriculture           26.4          26.4
Total                                              6,310.8 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 883.4
Total now outstanding                              5,427.4
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            45.3             0.5
Total now held by Bank                             5,426.9
TOtal undisbursed                                              3_003_  5
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
/3   Not yet signed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Pa-ge 3of 14
B. STATEMENT OP IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                                                                                              Aount in US$ million
Year                                              0 b 1 i * o r                                         Type of Business                        Loans       Equity       Total
1957                     Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Electricidade                                     Electrical Equipment                          2.00          -         2.00
1958                     Olinkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                                           Pulp and Paper                                1.20         -          1.20
1958                     D. L. R. Plasticos do Brasil, S. A.                                        Automotive Parts                               0.45         -         0.45
1958                     Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio                     Motor Vehicles                                2.45          -        2.45
1959                     Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S. A.                                Cement                                        1.20         -          1.20
1959                     Champion Celulose, S. A.                                                   Pulp                                           4.00         -         4.00
1966/1968/1972           Acos Villares, S. A.                                                       Steel                                          8.00        1.93       9.93
1966/1969                Papel a Celulose Catarinense, S. A.                                        Pulp and Paper                                 3.78        3.41       7.19
1967/1972                Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio de Pertilizantes                 Fertilizers                                    8.22        3.03      11.25
1969                     Petroquimica Uniaso, S. A.                                                 Petrochemicals                                 5.50        2.88       8.38
1970                     Poliolefinas, S. A. Industria e Comercio                                   Petrochemicals                                 5.50        2.88       8.38
1971                     Oxiteno, S. A. Industria e Comercio                                        Petrochemicals                                 4.60        1.44       6.04
1971                     Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                                  Pulp                                           4.90         -         4.90
1972/1975/1981           Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                                     Cement                                       169.14        6.70    175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                                 Steel                                         76.97       11.22      88.19
1973                     Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                                   Capital Market Development                     5.00         -         5.00
1973/1978                Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Minerais - CODEMIN, S. A.    Nickel Mining and Refining                           85.00        8.34       93.34
1974                     Industrias Villares, S. A.                                                 Elevators and Industrial Equipment             6.00         -         6.00
1974                     Fabrica de Tecido Tatuape, S. A.                                           Textiles                                      31.00         -        31.00
1975/1979                Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                                           Carbon Black                                   6.18        1.19       7.37
1975                     Oxiteno Nordeste, S. A.                                                    Petrochemicals                                10.00         -        10.00
1976                     Ssotista Industria - Teatil do Nardeate, S. A.                             Te.tiles                                       6.45        1.00       7.45
1976/1980                Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                             Textiles                                      16.20         -        16.20
1977                     FMB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                                           Iron and Aluminum Castings                    20.00         -        20.00
1977                     Mineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                                               Mining                                        15.00         -        15.00
1978                     Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                                   Iron and Steel                                 7.00        3.00      10.00
1979                     Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules, S. A.                                  Motor Vehicles                               60.00         5.00      65.00
1980                     Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                                          Ready-made Garments                            2.00         -         2.00
1980                     Deode do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura, Industria
e Comercio de Olesginosas                                              Pals-Oil                                       3.50        1.00       4.50
1980                     Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIEASA                                 Iron and Steel                                 5.00         -         5.00
1980                     PPH - Coopanhia Industrial de Polipropileno                                Chemicals and Petrochemicals                  15.00        2.00      17.00
1980                     Destilaria Cianorte S. A.                                                  Chemicals and Petrochemicals                    -          0.25       0.25
1980                     Sotave Amazonia Quitica e Mineral S/A                                      Fertilizers                                   16.00        4.00      20.00
1980                     Polisul Petroquimica                                                       Chemicals and Petrochemicals                  43.00        5.00      48.00
1981                     Brasilpar                                                                  Money and Capital Markets                       -          1.50       1.50
1981                     Companhia Brasileirs de Agropecuaria - COBRAPE                             Food and Food Processing                       5.50        3.00       8.50
1981                     Triunfo                                                                    Chemicals and Petrochemicals                  46.00        4.00      50.00
1982                     Ciaento CAUE                                                               Cement and Construction Materials             40.00        5.00      45.00
Total Gross Comitments                                                                                      741.74       77.77    819.51
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                                      534.19       12.02    546.21
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                                           207.55       65.75    273.30
Total Undisbursed                                                                                           219.01        21.47    240.48



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of March 31, 1982 1/
As of March 31, 1982, there were 54 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981.
A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The.construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating or just completed. Progress in
implementation of the enlarged project is satisfactory.  Overall costs
are within reviewed estimates. A local project completion team should
send a draft PCR to the Bank for comments by September 1982.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed and no further disbursements will
be made. About US$1.0 million is being cancelled. A project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) suffered delays because of financial constraints imposed
by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds for 1981
have been provided recently and works have been reactivated. The
weighing station program is being reformulated; the closing date
will have to be extended further to allow completion of the works.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Due to lack of funds in 1981 and further
constraints on 1982 spending, project completion is now scheduled
for November 1983. The company's financial position is inadequate
with a year-end 1981 current ratio of 0.54, debt equity ratio of
52:48 and debt service coverage of 0.6 times. A supervision
mission visited Brazil in March 1982, and strongly reiterated the
Bank's request that the Government provide additional funds (or
allow CSN to increase its long-term borrowings) to complete the
project by May 1983 (the earliest now possible) and to restore
the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982 (with
full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a
viable financial position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Government approved budgets for the company
indicate that spending on the project in 1982 will be cut by 40%
in real terms below last year's levels. As a result, work on the
project is expected to stop by July 1982.  The company also remains
in a poor financial situation, with a year-end 1981 current ratio of
0.45, debt-equity ratio of 55:45, and debt service coverage of 0.6
times.  A supervision mission visited Brazil in March and strongly
reiterated the Bank's request that the Government provide additional
funds (or allow COSIPA to increase its long-term borrowings) to
complete the project by October 1984 (the earliest now possible) and
to restore the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982
with full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a viable
financial position.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of works in several flood plain areas which
suffered heavily from floods in 1979. With respect to the
project works, construction of the irrigation and drainage
system and settlement in the Betume flood plain has been
delayed by the unexpected need to construct a new small dam
to control floods in a tributary river. Roads recently
constructed by the Government in the area of Brejo Grande flood
plain are acting as control dikes for irrigation purposes, so
previously planned project works may be excluded from the project.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
cost in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II,.extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land, inland fisheries, and to increasing
small farmers' resistance to drought through small-scale irrigation
methods, have recently shown good progress.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level. Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project is now complete,
resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or construction
of 5,420 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision of about
US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional financing
of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical implementation
of the project, which had reached 47% at the end of 1981, is now
progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan are expected to
be completed by the end of 1983.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. With the removal of constraints on the levels
of incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Provided the current levels of
counterpart funding and project implementation are sustained during
1982, the project should be completed by about end-1982.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule because of
initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition regarding
participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is now progressing
satisfactorily. The agreed targets for connection of low income
households have been widely exceeded. Substantial improvements in
the management of the project companies have been achieved, partic-
ularly in the areas of financial control and planning of COELBA and
CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now disbursed.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 80% complete. The closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date:  March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981. The
existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
temporary Government policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
to the actual inflation rate have ended. The Government is now follow-
ing a revised monetary correction system under which the level of
indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation, in line with
the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrangements for monitoring
the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed with the Government.
The loan is expected to be fully committed shortly.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of
June 30, 1982.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by 18 months, and a reallocation of loan
proceeds to incorporate marketing, road improvement, and water
supply activities, have been agreed.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Construction of plant buildings and erection of equipment are well
advanced, but some delays have been experienced in delivery of
locally ordered equipment which may delay the project completion
date by about eighteen months. Commercial production is now
expected to begin in October 1982. The costs to complete the
project are expected to be about 15% below the appraisal estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants. Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products by about 20%.    -
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of centers. The presidential
decree approving the legal and financial definition of SENAR was
signed, which now permits this component to be fully implemented.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17) 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds.  Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. A state proposal to reformulate certain re-
maining aspects of the project and to extend the Closing Date is
under consideration.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities and is
expected to be solved soon. Project completion is expected to be
delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project adminis-
tration. Several components, such as land tenure services, non-
farm rural enterprises, and agricultural credit, show encouraging
progress. Preliminary plans are currently developed toward modify-
ing the land, marketing and health components, and to expand the
project area for selected project activities.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation,of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because
of financial constraints imposed by the federal government. However,
these problems have been recently corrected and project execution
has been resumed.  The maintenance program in the state of Parana
is progressing well. The second phase of the weighing station
program will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR)
has been completed and the effects monitored. The Project is being
reformulated to reflect current priorities. Project completion
could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 75%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October 1982. The anticipated cost to complete the
project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer Justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities. The Closing Date has also been postponed to June 30, 1983.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.  The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementa-
tion. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981.  The Closing Date
has been postponed,from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984, in
part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of incre-
mental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use of
consultants. However, at least a partial exemption to recently
re-imposed Government hiring restrictions will need to be arranged
by EMBRATER to prevent a serious slow-down in project development.
Overall, the remaining project activities appear to be proceeding
reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
however, the education and water supply components are far behind
schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.  Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement has recently been signed.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which will not be utilized. Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982. There is a cost
overrun of about 8%. The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services achieved very
close to first year targets and exceeded second year targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.



ANNEX II
- 42 -                      Page 12 of 14
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to delays in the release of federal
funds. Project administration has improved but further improve-
ments in coordination among the entities involved in execution is
still needed. The agency responsible for the village water supply
component has not performed adequately and is being replaced by
another entity. The recommendations of the land tenure study are
still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
being developed by the Government outside the project in the
Brejo Grande sub-area may lead to the dropping from the project of
previously planned irrigation and drainage investments there. The
monitoring unit has been installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have
reached US$10 million by the end of March 1982, which is in line
with appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date:  March 311, 1984.  The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about nine months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during Calendar year 80. Part of the delay is expected to be made
up for during Calendar year 81 and Calendar year 82. A substantial
impact evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project
should yield knowledge of educational determinants vital to other
work in the education sector.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, previous plans for co-financing have
fallen through and the availability of local counterpart funds has
slowed project implementation.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 5, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Some delays have occurred in the appraising of the remaining AGLURB
cities. Corrective measures have been taken to bring this component
back to its original schedule during the recent supervision mission.
The pavement program in low-income areas (PROPAV), and the institu-
tional component are progressing satisfactorily. -
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily
and no major delays are envisaged.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All ports of the program are
progressing satisfactorily, although the production component
may suffer temporary delays due to financial stringency at the
national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986. Although project start-up has been somewhat delayed because
of the late arrival of funds for the first quarter, implementation
is thus far proceeding satisfactorily. Good progress has been
achieved in hiring staff and consultants, and in the land redis-
tribution program. Overall, project administration is function-
ing well. Start-up difficulties have slowed progress in small-scale
irrigation, water supply, and the establishment of the State Land
Institute; design and procurement procedures employed for rural
roads need strengthening.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays have occurred as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, recent
Government restrictions on hiring are necessitating special
arrangement by EMBRAPA of exceptions.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
PROJECT FOR THE PREPARATION OF THE METROPOLITAN
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FOR FORTALEZA AND SALVADOR
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:       12 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:   CONDER, AUMEF, SUDENE,
Municipalities of Salvador,
Camaqari, Fortaleza and
Caucaia
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:    September 1980
(d)  First mission to review project:   September 1980
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:    February 1982
(f)  Completion of negotiations:          June 30, 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:       October 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) SG/MINTER, SUDENE, the State of Bahia and Ceara, CONDER, AUMEF,
and the Municipalities of Salvador, Camagari, Fortaleza, and
Caucaia would review with the Bank, in April 1983, the progress
in project implementation to date, and in April of each year
thereafter, progress in project execution in the previous 12
months and the revisions that may be necessary to the annual
financing plans, such revisions to be used in the budget
preparation process of all executing entities (para. 57);
(b) each project agency would maintain a separate project account and
CONDER and AUMEF would maintain a consolidated project account
(para. 60);
(c)  SG/MINTER would arrange for annual independent audits of all
project accounts, and SG/MINTER would submit such accounts and
audits to the Bank not more than six months after the close of
each fiscal year (para. 60);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) the States of Bahia and Ceara and the Municipalities of Salvador,
Camagari, Fortaleza, and Caucaia would ensure that all executing
entities in cooperation with CONDER and AUMEF, establish and/or
maintain adequate project management and coordination systems
(para. 63).
(e) the States of Bahia and Ceara and the Municipalities of Salvador,
Camaqari, Fortaleza, and Caucaia would ensure that the costs for
the services and infrastructures provided under the project,
except for the costs of studies and technical assistance, would
be covered by direct or indirect fees, taxes or charges (para.
64).



IBRD 16378
3645                                              38'30'                                             38'15'                                            PRIL 98
.-.
A  t  / a  n                                          ' '                                 BRAZIL
0 64t <                                                                           FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN REGION
(k;;}     \>             (2,   eG  *o
*   Project Area
Built-up Area
-Main Roads
Secondary Roads
Railroads
(7 4'    |      1/             0                         ~                        ~                                                             *    Airport
CAIA                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Municipal Boundaries
3'45                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers  3'45-
Metropolitan Area Boundary
< /-. -  International Boundaries
Maraca ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                          rsla
e  /  /  /J/  \/j                                                  .,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q, d oer
.        a  ~~~~~~~.o4/)                  /                                                                                                                                I ooco     ~ \ #      
'' /rop,oo ,  7                                                                   -- g
/ /~45' 3\,/   j   )      j^PACATUBA            g            /                      X                   84'  0                    U  T H8- 5
\-   -   / $  /                 J            z                           N                                             :          i        . . e a.;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.d J,,
  \   .  /    ---2                                          o~~~~~~~~~ ~                                          ~ ~~~ 5   10  15  20 
*sf vtl                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOME TE RS 
38-45'  Do/fp  a38'30'                                                                               3815'                      s 






IBRD 16379
>      l Jacuipe                  3830' |o Soe,no          /u/o Afoaso4F8                                                                                             B D,  A  1832
1210s                                                                                   JOCwpe ,                                                                it  <  1230'-    '  SJ   U  T           c  ei1
TO             ~~~~SANTOQ                                                                                                                                                         B     A   I L    ~o
To M/sues                                                                                                                                                                                   2    ,> Bral   dea
rO \11Cg6                                                                                                                                                                                            deAIA0D { \ / X 1A* b  '. Xgi,Bilu       a
JoneirO
A    y                                                                                                                                                                                    A t-laAt>fet  av SEFRIAS :'tic  ,Rirod 
d'Avila ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4ioh
MneGordo 
Acpe/
-Barn Jesus ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~arp(
To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Idsra Areas/ s/nd/t :
du rgaPregds                                                                                tot I   ~        ,ronts                                           Built-up Areas
38APARA                                                                                                Mai R n   o d I L
/5 ~       LAD RtP                                                                           -.' -   Metropolita M T O LIAre   Boundar,
PrneteArnatona Bounariens
S'li   5  J      -                                                                                                      Built-up~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  5 1   A5e 20
\do Margarido   g-Aay                                       n    -IcOc-Abrn tC r erraha err.rt,errt
iTAPAkICA                                                                                                 Airport~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O h ,e~ fth 6~ r ,k l,.lhe. h errrre,ro sdtI
:DE ~~~~~~~~~FREJTAS,       od,isern rr,Railhorot re.adstept a h ol fer r
eataptetInternational aoundorie
28~~~~~~~~30                                                                  38~~~~~~~~~~~    0  1   2



