OFiCIAT
DOCUMENTS      LOAN NUMBER 2193 BR
Project Agreement
(Project for the Preparation of Metropolitan
Development Programs for Salvador and Fortaleza)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
and
SUPERINTENDENCIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO
DO NORDESTE - SUDENE
and
STATE OF CEARA
and
AUTARQUIA DA REGIAO METROPOLITANA
DE FORTALEZA - AUMEF
and
MUNICIPALITY OF FORTALEZA
and
MUNICIPALITY OF CAUCAIA
Dated          ,       /S     , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2193 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       13                    , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTR CTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and SUPERINTENDENCIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO
DO NORDESTE - SUDENE (hereinafter called SUDENE) and the STATE
OF CEARA (hereinafter called the State) and AUTARQUIA DA REGIAO
METROPOLITANA DE FORTALEZA - AUMEF (hereinafter called AUMEF) and
MUNICIPALITY of FORTALEZA (hereinafter called Fortaleza) and
MUNICIPALITY OF CAUCAIA (hereinafter called Caucaia).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
million nine hundred thousand dollars ($8,900,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
SUDENE, the State and AUMEF, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement for Parts D, E and F of the Project
will be made available to the State on the terms and conditions
therein set forth;
(C) SUDENE warrants and represents that it is authorized
under the laws of the Borrower to undertake the obligations in
this Agreement contained;
(D) SUDENE,   the   State  and  AUMEF   each  warrants  and
represents that it is authorized under the laws of the Borrower
and the State to undertake the obligations in this Agreement
contained;
(E) Fortaleza and Caucaia each warrants and represents
that it is authorized under the laws of the Borrower, the State
and Fortaleza to undertake the obligations in this Agreement
contained; and
(F) SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia, in
consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with
the  Borrower,   have  agreed   to   undertake  the  obligations
hereinafter set forth;
NOW  THEREFORE   the  parties  hereto   agree  as   follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts D, E and F of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia
shall carry out Parts D, E and F of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and urban development practices.
(b) SUDENE shall supervise and coordinate the execution of
Parts D, E and F of the Project, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and urban development practices.
(c) SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the carry-
ing out of the Project.
(d) The State, Fortaleza and Caucaia shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the operation and
maintenance of the facilities included in Parts D, E and F of the
Project.
Section 2.02. In order to assist in the carrying out of the
Project, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia shall employ
consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in
accordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. SUDENE shall maintain an urban project
coordination unit, with a competent staff in adequate numbers,
including, inter alia, a project coordinator whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. (a) AUMEF shall enter into convenios with the
Executing Entities as necessary or appropriate, the terms and
conditions of which shall be satisfactory to the Bank, for the
purpose of determining the rights and obligations of the parties
thereto in respect of the carrying out of each part of Parts D, E
and F of the Project.
(b) The State and AUMEF shall ensure that no provision of
any convenio is assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived without
the Bank's agreement.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be made
in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 2.06. SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and
Caucaia shall review with the Bank and the Borrower, through
SG/MINTER, during the month of April 1983, the progress to date
in execution of Parts D, E and F of the Project, and during the
month of April each year thereafter, the progress in execution of
Parts D, E and F of the Project during the previous twelve
months, and the revisions that may be necessary or appropriate to
the annual financing plan for such Parts D, E and F of the
Project, such revisions to be taken into account in the budget
preparation process of all Executing Entities.
Section 2.07. AUMEF shall prepare by March 31 of each year a
report evaluating the adequacy of expenditures for the purposes
referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of this Agreement with respect to
the operation and maintenance of facilities under the Project.
Section 2.08. The State, Fortaleza and Caucaia shall, or
shall cause each of the Executing Entities to, establish and
maintain, in cooperation with AUMEF, an adequate management and
coordination system for each part of the Project for which each
such Executing Entity is responsible.


﻿4-
Section 2.09. The State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia shall
take all necessary measures to ensure that the costs for the
sanitary land-fill under Part F (1) (a) of the Project, the urban
services center under Part F (1) (b) of the Project, the water
and sewerage connections under Part F (2) of the Project and the
sanitation installations under Part F (2) of the Project are
adequately covered by direct or indirect fees, taxes or other
charges for such services.
Section 2.10. (a) The State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia
undertake to insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance
of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
State to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) AUMEF shall make available to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts D, E and F of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia shall:
(i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of Parts D, E and F of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose their use in such Parts of the Project; (ii)
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Parts D, E and F of the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank through SUDENE at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Parts D, E and F of
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-5-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed to for this purpose by SUDENE, the
State and the Bank, SUDENE and AUMEF shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank through SG/MINTER a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of Parts D, E and F of the Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by SDU/MINTER, SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza,
Caucaia, the Executing Entities and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement, this Agreement, the RMF
Subsidiary Agreement and the convenios and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.12. SUDENE, the State and AUMEF shall duly perform
all their obligations under the RMF Subsidiary Agreement. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SUDENE, the State and AUMEF
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the RMF
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.13. The State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia shall
take, or cause to be taken, all measures necessary for the
acquisition of such land rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities in
the Fortaleza Metropolitan Region provided under the Project.
Section 2.14. SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and
Caucaia shall not take, and the State, Fortaleza and Caucaia
shall not permit to be taken (and shall cause each of their
political or administrative subdivisions and each of the entities
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit
of, the State, Fortaleza and Caucaia or such subdivisions not to
take or permit to be taken) any action that would prevent or
interfere with the execution of the Project or with the perfor-
mance of the Borrower's obligations under the Loan Agreement or
the performance of the obligations of any Executing Entity under
the Project.
Section 2.15. (a) SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and
Caucaia shall exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of their obligations
under this Agreement, the RMF Subsidiary Agreement, and any
convenio and any other matter relating to the purposes of the
Loan.


﻿- 6 -
(b) SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts D, E or F of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the  performance   by   SUDENE,  the   State,  AUMEF,   Fortaleza,
Caucaia or any Executi:, Entity of its obligations under this
Agreement, the RMF Subsidiary Agreement or any convenio.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
SUDENE and AUMEF
Section  3.01.  SUDENE   and  AUMEF  shall  carry  on   their
respective operations and conduct their affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, engineering and urban
development practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. AUMEF shall: (a) maintain a consolidated
Project account to reflect the operations, resources and expendi-
tures in respect of Parts D, E and F of the Project; and
(b) make available to SG/MINTER such accounts for purposes
of the audit to be carried out pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of
tne Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02. SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and
Caucaia shall, or shall cause the Executing Entities to: (a)
maintain separate Project accounts adequate to reflect therein,
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices,    their   respective    operations,   resources    and
expenditures in respect of Parts D, E and F of the Project,
including separate Project accounts reflecting all expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and
(b)   retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other


﻿-7-
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records; and
(c) make available to SG/MINTER the accounts and records
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above for purposes of the
audit to be carried out pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia thereunder
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall
promptly notify SUDENE, the State, AUMEF, Fortaleza and Caucaia
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-8-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SUDENE:
Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento
do Nordeste - SUDENE
Praga Joao Gongalves de Sousa
Cidade Universitaria
Recife, Pernambuco
Brazil, C.E.P. 50.000
Cable address:                      Telex:
SUDENE                             812436 SDNE BR
Pernambuco
For the State:
State of Ceara
Secretaria do Planejamento e Coordina,'Ao
Centro Administrativo
Fortaleza, Ceara
Brazil
C.E.P. 60.000
For AUMEF:
Autarquia da Regigo Metropolitana
de Fortaleza - AUMEF
Rua Mons. Bruno 1001
Aldeota, Fortaleza, Ceara
Brazil
C.E.P. 60.000


﻿-9-
For Fortaleza:
Municipality of Fortaleza
Pago Municipal
Centro, Fortaleza, Ceara
Brazil
C.E.P. 60.000
For Caucaia:
Municipality of Caucaia
Caucaia, Ceara,
Brazil
C.E.P. 60.000
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SUDENE or AUMEF may be taken or executed
by its Superintendent or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and SUDENE and AUMEF shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by the
Governor of the State or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and the State shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.04. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Fortaleza or Caucaia may be taken or
executed by its Mayor or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and Fortaleza and Caucaia shall furnish to
the  Bank   sufficient   evidence  of   the  authority   and   the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
by Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SUPERINTENDENCIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO
DO NORDESTE - SUDENE
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF CEARA
By
Authorized Representative
AUTARQUIA DA REGIAO METROPOLITANA DE
FORTALEZA - AUMEF
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
MUNICIPALITY OF FORTALEZA
By
Authorized Representative
MUNICIPALITY OF CAUCAIA
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /        day of A4  ., 198   .
FOR SECRETARY


