                                    Document of
                                The World Bank



                                                            Report No: 25789-NEP




                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                       ON A

                                PROPOSEDCREDIT

              INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR3.6 MILLION(USS5.0 MillionEquivalent)

                                      TO THE

                               KINGDOM OF NEPAL

                                      FORA

                         COMMUNITY SCHOOL SUPPORT PROJECT

                                    June 11,2003




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office

            CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate EffectiveMarch 2003)

           CurrencyUnit = Nepalese Rupees
                 NPRs. 1 = USS 0.0133
                    US$ 1 = NPRs. 78.3

                     FISCAL YEAR
                 July 16 --       July 15

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BPEP           Basic and Primary EducationProgram
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBO            CommunityBasedOrganizations
csc             Central SteeringCommittee
CSSP            CommunitySchool Support Project
DDC            DistrictDevelopmentCommittee
DE0            District Education Office
DFP            District FocalPerson
DOE             Departmentof Education
DSC             District SteeringCommittee
DTCO            District TreasuryController Office
EFA             EducationFor All
FCGO            Financial ComptrollerGeneralOffice
FMR             Financial MonitoringReport
FP              FocalPerson
IAP             ImmediateAction Plan
IDA             IntemationalDevelopment Association
LIL             Learning InnovationLoan
LSGA            Local Self Govemance Act
MDG             MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MOES            Ministry o f Education and Sports
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MOLD            MinistryofLocal Development
NGO             Non Govemment Organization
NPC             NationalPlanningCommission
OAG             Office of the Auditor General
PAC             Project Advisory Committee
PFP             Project FocalPoint
PMC             ProjectMonitoring Committee
PRSP            PovertyReductionStrategyPaper
RRSG            RegionalResearchSupport Group
SAC             Social Audit Committee
SMC             School ManagementCommittee
so              Support Organization
VDC             Village DevelopmentCommittee

           Vice President:        Mieko Nishimizu
        Country Director:         KenichiOhashi
 Sector DirectodManager:          Charles C. GriffdMichelle Riboud
      Task Team Leader:           RajendraDhoj Joshi

                                                                              NEPAL                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                       COMMUNITY SCHOOL SUPPORT PROJECT
                                                                         CONTENTS

       A. LIL Justification                                                                                                                                         Page
          1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?                         .....................................................................                  2
          2. H o w are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follo\v-on                                                                      3
             operation)?
          3 .Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise................................                                                   4

       B. Structure of the Pilot
          1, H o w will the learning take place?..................................                                  .......................................           4
          2. Outcome-level test to be conducted                     ...............................                        ................................            5
          3. Steps Involved in Implementingthe Pilot..................................................                                                 ..........      5
          4. Learning Expectations to be Documented in the Pilot..........................................................
          5. Triggers for a Follow-on Operation                     ....................................................................................               67
          6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements ............................                                                       .............     8

       C. Componentsand their ImplementationArrangements
          1. Project components...........................................................................................                                             9
          2. Implementation arrangements............................................................................................                                  10
              a. Procurement      ................................................................................................................                    11
             b. Financial Management                ..................................................................................................                12
              c. Other...........................................................................................................................                     13

       D. Risks
          1. Social and Environmental Risks                    .................................................................................                      13
              a. Safeguard Policies........................................................................................................                           13
             b. Other social risks         .............................................................................                                              14
          2. Other Risks......................................................................................................................                        14

       E. Main Loadcredit Conditions
          1. Effectiveness Conditions              ...................................................................................................                15
          2. Other........................................................................................................                 ...............            15
       F. Readinessfor Implementation.............................................................................................                                    15
       G. Compliance with Bank Policies...........................................................................................                                    15

       Annexes
       Annex 1.  Project Design Summary.............................................................................................                                  16
       Annex la. Project Monitoring Baseline and Targets......................................................................                                        19
       Annex 2.  Project Description........................................................................................                                          22
       Annex 3.  Financial Management................................................................................................
                 Estimated Project Costs..............................................................................................                                30
       Annex 4.                                                                                                                                                       31
       Annex 5.  Project Processing Schedule........................................................................................                                  34
       Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .............................................................                                              35
       Annex 7.  Documents in the Project File                    ............................                                                     ............       40
       Annex 8.  Statement of Loans and Credits                      ...............................................................               ............       41
       Annex 9.  Country at a Glance....................................................................................................                              43
       Annex 10. Arrangements for Safeguarding Interests o f Indigenous Peoples..................................                                                     45
IThisdocument hasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only
lthe performanceof their official duties. I t s contents-may not be otherwise disclosed                                                                                   I


                                                    NEPAL
                                       Community School Support Project
                                      Project Appraisal Document
                                           South Asia RegionalOffice
                                                    SASHD

Date: June 11, 2003                                     Team Leader: Rajendra Dhoj Joshi
Sector \Ianager/Director: Michelle Riboud, Charles C.   Sector(s): General educationsector (100°6)
2riftin                                                 Thenie(s): Educationfor all (P)
Country hlanager/Director: Kenichi Ohashi
Project ID: PO82646
Lending Instrument: Learning and InnovationLoan
1LIL)
Project Financing Data
 [ ]Loan       [XI Credit     [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 5.0 Million

Proposed Terms (IDA): StandardCredit
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.00-0.50%                              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):       Source                                Local            Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                               0.18    1        0.00   I     0.18
IDA                                                                    5.OO             0.00         5.00
Total:                                                                 5.18             0.00         5.18
Borrower: KINGDOM OF NEPAL
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATIONAND SPORTS
Ministry o f Educationand Sports
Address: Keshar Mahal, Kathmandu
Contact Person: Mr.Chuman SinghBasnyat, The Officiating Secretary
Tel: 977-1-4411599                Fax: 977-1-4414887              Email: moes@enet.com.np
Other Agency(ies):
Department of Education(DOE)
Address: Sanothimi, Bhaktapur
Contact Person: Mr.Satya Bahadur Shrestha, The Director General
Tel: 977-1-6631075                Fax: 977-1-6631972              Emai1: doestat@mos.com.np
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYlUS$m):
                                       ,  I
    FY        2004       2005        2006
    Annual     1.50        2.30        1.20
Cumulative     1.50        3.80       5.00
Project implementation period: 3 years 2 months
Expected effectiveness date: 07/16/2003    Expected closing date: 09130/2006

A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?
Prior to nationalization o f schools in 1972, Nepal almost exclusively relied on community-owned schools
for school education. These schools, established through community initiatives, were funded through
tuition fees and block grants from the Government. In the quest for improvement o f quality o f education
through assured funding and technical support, the Government nationalized schools. In spite o f the
sizeable investment that the Government has made since then, the extent o f impro\,ement in quality and
efficiency of school education did not match with the expectations o f the Government or the public. The
large gap between the pass rates in the School Leaving Certificate Examinations o f public and private
schools introduced in the mid-eighties - around 80 percent for private schools and 15 percent for public
schools - i s being perceived as a glaring example o f the failure o f the public school system. This has led
to the loss o f faith o f the public in public schools. At present, private provision accounts for around 10
percent o f primary enrolment and 20 percent o f secondary enrolment. The perceived large gap in quality
between the private schools
the poorer  - has led          - cateringto richer section o f the population and public schools catering to
                                                                             -                   -
                      to a virtual segregation o f education along the wealth status.

Reflecting the widely shared public perception that nationalization o f schools did not meet the
expectations, the Seventh Amendment o f the Education Act, passed in 2001, articulated the policy o f
devolving school management responsibilities to communities, and renamed all public schools as
community schools. In 2002, the Government embarked on the transfer o f management o f
government-funded community schools, hereinafter referred to as government-funded schools, to the
community level by offering all communities the option o f taking over government-funded primary
schools financed on a block grant basis, subject to meeting some basic prerequisites. The Government i s
about to meet the immediate target o f transferring 100 out o f over 2 1,000 government-funded schools to
community management. The objective o f the proposed Community School Support Project (CSSP), a
Learning Innovation Loan (LIL), i s to assist the govenunent gain critical experience for successfully
up-scaling the transfer o f management o f government-funded schools to communities.

Transfer o f management o f government-funded schools to communities i s one o f the basic strategies o f
the Tenth Plan aimed at achieving the Education for All (EFA) and Millennium Development Goals
(MDG) targets. The lessons learned from the CSSP will help to achieve the EFMMDGtargets by raising
the efficiency o f investments in school education.

Before nationalization o f schools in 1972, there were about 4,000 community schools. Therefore, Nepal
does have a wealth o f experience on management o f schools by communities. However, this experience
alone may not be sufficient for success o f the on-going transfer o f schools to communities, as the
socio-political landscape has changed since then. Some o f the major changes that have implications for
community school operation are emergence o f private schools, replacement o f the party-less Panchayat
System by a multi-party democracy and the policy o f devolving school education to local bodies in
accordance with the Local Self Governance Act (LSGA) o f 1999.

The richer section o f the population, which patronized community schools prior to 1972, no longer has a
stake in community schools, as at present, its needs, by and large, are being met by private schools.
Winningback the original patrons as well as building the capacity o f its constituency mainly consisting
o f poor parents is a challenge for schools being transferred to communities.

The earlier community schools were basically funded by local communities with token assistance from
the Government. The new community-managed schools will receive sizable funding from the



                                                      - 2 -

Government,     and will be more o f a Government-community partnership than the previous
community-owned schools. The move towards this partnership from the Government command and
control system implies serious behavioral change for the civil servants, teachers and communities.
Likewise, the degree o f autonomy that the schools transferred to communities will enjoy may not be the
same as that o f community schools in pre-nationalization days.

The LSGA articulates the Government policy o f devolving the responsibility for managing primary
education to the Village Development Committees (VDCs)         - the lowest level o f local body - and loiver
secondary and secondary education to District Development Committees           -  the highest level of local
body. Some proponents o f decentralization feel that the Seventh Amendment of the Education Act, 2025
BS, proinulgated in 2001, which has paved the way for transferring schools to community management,
does not clearly articulate the role o f local governments with respect to management o f schools.
Therefore, there i s some confusion at the policy level on the role o f local bodies with respect to school
education. In spite o f this confusion, local bodies have been playing a critical role in promoting school
education. It i s desirable that the role o f local bodies with respect to community-managed schools be
crystallized so that the community-managed schools could maximize support from them. The project will
aim at forging a strong partnership between schools and the local government - one o f the main
stakeholders o f the schools.

Restoration o f a multi-party democracy in 1990 has considerably changed the culture o f teachers and
other stakeholders, therefore the approach to school management that existed prior to 1972 may not be
fully applicable now.

The proposed Community School Support Project (CSSP) seeks to learn about the following: (i)              the
characteristics o f "successful" community-managed schools; (ii) approaches for formation o f school
                                                                    the
management committees that represent the interest o f the entire cross-section o f parents including the
socially excluded groups; (iii) needs, modalities and costs for capacity building at community, school,
                                the
village development committee/municipality, district and higher levels to ensure effective management o f
schools by communities; (iv) the promising approaches for ensuring access to all primary age children,
including those from indigenous peoples
disadvantaged communities     -                -disadvantage janjatis (indigenous nationalities), dalits and
                                in the school service area, and enhancing gender parity, completion rates
and quality o f education; (v) the role o f local government and line agencies with respect to
community-managed schools; (vi) service conditions o f community-employed teachers that ensures their
efficiency; and (vii) the desired changes in the existing legal framework and policies for successful
operation o f community-managed schools.

2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?
Document number: 25205 NEP  -             Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/19/2002

Devolution o f responsibility for management and financing o f schooling with the intention o f raising
overall accountability o f Government schools was the primary means in the CAS o f reaching the
objective o f improving the poor quality o f service delivery by public schools. This project will help
generate the critical knowledge needed for successful transfer o f responsibility for management o f
government-funded schools to communities.          Therefore, the results o f this project will be o f direct
relevance for meeting the CAS objectives.

IDA, together with seven other       donors, are supporting the basic and primary education sub-sector
through the Basic and Primary Education Program I1(BPEP 11), and five o f these donors, including IDA,
are funding this program through a basket funding mechanism. IDA is supporting this program through



                                                     - 3 -

an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) called the Basic and Primary Education Project 11, the first phase o f
which will end in July 2004. The Government and the BPEP donors are now engaged in preparation for
the next five-year phase o f the BPEP. The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) aims at transferring
management o f 8,000 schools to communities by mid-2007. In response to this government goal, the
BPEP will have to be able to support community-managed schools. This project aims at developing the
critical knowledge base for the BPEP so that it i s well equipped to cater to the needs o f community
schools. As the next phase o f the BPEP i s being planned for delivery through a flexible programmatic
approach and transfer o f schools to communities i s to be implemented gradually, the learning from this
project will be relevant for the next phase o f the BPEP.

In a larger context o f the serious reform process that Government is undertaking, the initiative to transfer
government-funded schools to community management also has an important place.                   Given the
entrenched structure o f poor governance, reforming the public sector and making it more responsive to
the needs o f the poor may face strong resistance. To sustain the reform process, therefore, Government
must win the confidence of the common people and create a broad-based constituency for refom. The
transfer o f government-funded schools to community management i s one o f the most concrete and
immediate steps the Government can take to demonstrate its commitment to changing the way it serves
the people. The success of the overall reform process will importantly hinge on the success of this
initiative.

3. Other countries o r situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
The poor service delivery by public schools i s not unique to Nepal. Therefore various strategies for
improving service delivery o f public schools are underway across the world. The experience o f
community-managed schools in Guatemala, Nicaragua and El Salvador indicates the potential o f
community-based approaches          in school     management. The success         o f a large number o f
community-owned schools inNepal, which do not receive public funding, also indicates the potential for
success o f public schools transferred to community management.            Similarly, the experience o f the
UNDP-supported Community Owned Primary Education (COPE) program indicates the capacity o f
communities to manage schools.

B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learning take place?
To respond to the need for taking reform actions urgently and to seize the political opening, the
Government has launched the school transfers somewhat opportunistically. While the Government has
issued basic guidelines for management o f schools and developed a legal agreement that i s used to
formalize the obligations o f the school management committee and the Government, many issues will
need to be addressed in making these community- managed schools truly effective. The Government i s
learning to do it right as it proceeds. The proposed CSSP will assist the Government in this evolutionary
approach to implementing a simple concept that nonetheless requires much attention to details in its
application. Careful process documentation o f the experience from the initial phase o f transfers and its
analysis will help in the learning o f critical design details as the transfers proceed to scale.     In fact,
emergence o f a well-designed support system and evidence o f substantial improvement in educational
outcomes will be necessary to convince many communities to take up the option now presented to them.

Each school i s unique by virtue o f the distinctive characteristics o f its stakeholders. A one-size-fits-all
tendency o f top-down planning will be counterproductive for community-managed schools.                   The
Government's school transfer initiative aims at facilitating the stakeholders to choose their own unique
vision, mission, and goals for their schools. Therefore, the primary focus o f learning in this project will



                                                     - 4 -

 be on learning how outside agencies such as local administration and line agencies facilitate and support
 the community-managed schools in their endeavors to improve school effectiveness.

 Inthis project, the following structure will be used for learning:

0    The community -- parents, teachers and SMC -- in partnership with NGOsiSOs (Support
Organizations, which includes NGOs, firms and community managed schools) and with support from the
local bodies will arrive at a vision o f school reform and design, implement,monitor, evaluate and
document school activities.
0    A network o f the community-managed schools will be formed to facilitate exchange o f experience
among the coinmunity-managed schools.
0    The MOES staff, resource persons and the Research Support Groups (RSGs) will pro\.ide
professional support to the communities and NGOsISOs. The MOES with support from the RSGs will
periodically analyze the experience o f community-managed schools and draw lessons, which will be
communicated to the schools.
0    At the endo f the program, the project will be evaluated by independent consultants.
0    The RSGs will receive guidance from the Central Steering Committee.

 2. Outcome-leveltest to be conducted
 The best indicator o f the positive outcome from the project will be a significant increase in number o f
 community-managed schools. Other outcome-level indicators to be tested are participation rates,
 promotion rates and learning achievements. While participation rates can improve relatively quickly,
 improvement in promotion rates and learning achievements takes time, and consequently, results o f the
 project inputs may be evident only after the completion o f the project. Therefore, transformation o f the
 school environment in terms o f factors such as class occurrence, student regularity, user satisfaction,
 participation o f parents from diverse socio-economic backgrounds in school governance activities,
 extracurricular activities, cleanliness, which will eventually translate into improvements in promotion
 rates and learning achievements and a lot beyond, will also be tested. For the purpose o f the
 outcome-level    testing,  a baseline      will be    established  in a   sample    o f government-funded
 community-managed schools        -treatment group, government-funded schools transferred to community
 but not receiving project support except for the incentive grant           - partial treatment group, and
 government-funded schools managed by the Government-control group. The achievement o f these groups
 o f schools at the end o f the project will be compared with the baseline to find out whether
 community-management leads to better outcomes.

 3. Steps involved in conductingthe pilot
 The pilot will be undertaken usingthe following steps:


 0   Following the project effectiveness, a communication campaign will be launched to attract more
 schools to community management.
 0   The project will seek applications from the schools transferred to communities that are willing to
 take advantage o f the project support. The schools will be selected for support from the project according
 to predetermined criteria.
 0   This process will be repeated periodically till the project target in terms o f number o f schools to be
 supported is met.
 0   Hiring o f NGOs/SOs for community mobilization and Research Support Groups (a private agency) to
 support the piloting.
 0   Establishing self-organizing community groups to help the community - parents, teachers, school



                                                      - 5 -

management committees, local government, and social workers and politicians          -to assume leadership in
school improvement process.        Community groups will comprise location specific CBOs as well as
interest groups such as dalit groups, janjati groups, and groups o f households excluded from education.
     Formulating a school vision through a participatory approach.
     Establishing a baseline in terms of access to, and efficiency and quality o f education together with
characteristics of school environment in participating schools. The indicators for the baseline will be
compatible with the shared school vision o f the community and capture the ethnic diversity of the
community.
     Participatory monitoring o f changes in the school.
     Sustained financial and technical support to the community from Government agencies, Research
Support Groups and NGOsiSOs to maintain community leadership in the school transformation process.
     Mid-term review after one year.
     Final evaluation o f the project outcome.

4. Learning expectations to be documented in the pilot

-    Economic       r
                    --  Technical        r-
                                         __Social
                                         -                   3
                                                             -  Participation
    ~

- - ~
..   Financial      1   Institutional    __ Environmental L- Other

Economic: Although the outcomes expected from the investment in school education such as
improvement in participation rates, efficiency and quality have been clearly articulated, there i s not
enough knowledge about the costs involved in achieving these outcomes, as the relationship between
inputs and outcome is vague at the best. This project will help to make an initial attempt to establish this
relationship, and will also document the possible sharing o f these costs between various stakeholders.

Financial: Over 80 percent o f the public expenditure on education i s being allocated to school education.
The total resource transfers to schools by far exceeds the total transfer o f funds to Village Development
Committees    - thelowest level o f local bodies. But this resource transfer to the schools, however, have not
empowered the communities or schools as the development budget has largely been spent by the line
agencies on behalf o f the schools, while the regular budget is tied to teachers employed by the
Government. This project aims to learn the impact o f flow o f financial assistance in cash rather than in
kindto project supported schools on the efficiency o f school management.

TechnicaUpedagogic: School education experience so far has revealed that children and school should be
the foci o f all education development activities so that the yields from investments in education could be
maximized. However, translating this concept into practice has been difficult mainly due to systemic
resistance to flowing funds directly to schools as opposed to availing schools with assistance in kind -
civil works, goods and services. This project aims at facilitating focus on schools and children by
channeling over 80% o f the project funds directly to schools. This project is expected to provide valuable
documentation o f experience related to the way the school/community makes choices on issues related
with pedagogy, school environment, teachers, parents, physical facilities, instructional and learning
achievement standards, etc.

Community participation/management: The transfer o f school management to School Management
Committees dominated by the parents, elected from among the parents o f children studying in community
schools, gives an excellent opportunity to make schools directly accountable to the parents - the closest
stakeholders o f the school. The degree o f accountability o f SMCs to parents will, however, depend upon
the extent to which parents are able to organize themselves and the degree to which they represent all
stakeholders in the community. The major focus o f the CSSP is in building sustainable institutional



                                                      - 6 -

structures at the community level that can continuously monitor and support SMC initiatives. The
procedures or practices that can ensure election of the SMC representing all cross-section o f the society
including the marginalized are another area of focus o f this project. The CSSP i s expected to provide
valuable insights into the potent modalities for building capacities o f the communities for managing
schools, and monitoring and supporting school activities.

Social inclusion: Mainstreaming out-of-school children i s one o f the critical challenges on the path
towards achievement o f the Universal Primary Education goal of the Education for All (EFA) and
MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs). These challenges have proved to be formidable because of the
inherent biases o f the institutions that deliver education resulting from the prevailing power, social and
caste structures. The CSSP specifically aims at assisting marginalizeddisadvantaged cormnunities in
overcoming the barriers to access to education. T o overcome these barriers, the project w i l l try out the
promising strategies o f external interventions and provide necessary support including scholarships to
households with out-of-school children. Mainstreaming out-of-school             children will be made a
community agenda rather than an agenda o f the disadvantaged b y implementing social contracts between
the mainstream society and the excluded groups. Thus the project is expected to document the ways
schools can be managed in a socially inclusive manner.

Instittitional: The transfer o f management o f schools to communities not only change the way schools
operate but also their relationship with other institutions like the local govemment, district education
offices and other govemment agencies. This change in interrelationship may face some difficulties
because o f the inherent systemic inertia as well as the change in the power structure. The new modality
o f management will have profound implications for teachers. Evolving a terms o f service for the teachers
that promotes efficiency would be a serious exercise to be supported by the CSSP.

5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
IDA, together with seven other donors, is supporting the basic and primary education sub-sector through
the Basic and Primary Education Program (BPEP), which i s due to end in July 2004. IDA i s supporting
this program through the first phase o f an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) called Basic and Primary
Education Project Phase 11. The Government, together with the BPEP donors, are now engaged in
preparation for the next five-year phase o f the BPEP.

The PRSP aims at transferring management o f 8,000 schools to communities by mid-2007. In response
to this government goal, the BPEP will have to be able to support community-managed schools. This
project aims at developing the critical knowledge base for the BPEP so that it i s well equipped to cater to
the needs o f community schools. As the next phase o f the BPEP i s being planned for delivery through a
flexible programmatic approach, and transfer o f schools to communities i s to be implemented gradually,
the learning from this project will be relevant for the next phase o f the BPEP.

While the BPEP i s catering to the basic and primary education sub-sector alone, this CSSP caters to the
whole school system. If the CSSP becomes successful in achieving its aims, there may be a case for a
separate follow-on project adopting the whole-school approach. The triggers for such an operation may
be:
0    A significant increase innumber o f schools taking over management o f govemment-funded schools
0    Mainstreaming o f the majority o f the out-of-school children in the project areas.
0    A significant improvement inpromotion rates.
0    An improved fit between the ethnic, caste and gender profile o f the community served by the school
with the ethnic, caste and gender profile o f the school population and passouts.




                                                      - 7 -

6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation System
The monitoring and evaluation framework i s presented in Annex 1. The first level o f monitoring will be
at the communityischool level. A Project Monitoring Committee (PMC), described in Annex 2, will be
formed at each school community. Support organizations (SOs) responsible for social mobilization will
provide training on participatory monitoring to the communities. Monitoring indicators \vi11 comprise a
standard set o f indicators reflecting the overall project objectives/outcomes, a supplementary set of
indicators reflecting district priorities, and another set o f indicators reflecting community aspirations.
The frequency of monitoring will vary from indicator to indicator. If indicators like class regularity will
be monitored on a daily basis, indicators like promotion rates and participation rates \vi11 be monitored on
an annual basis.     School level indicators will also include process indicators such as classroom
organization, display and use o f teaching learning materials, use o f participatory and activity based
methods that will lead to improvement in system indicators. The resource persons and the Research
Support Group providing professional support to the project will provide technical support for
monitoring activities. The P M C will periodically submit the monitoring report to the Project Advisory
Committee (PAC) described in Annex 2.           The head teacher and the SMC Chairperson w i l l submit
monitoring reports to the District Education Office (DEO) on a trimesterly basis.

The next level o f monitoring activities will take place at the district level. The Focal Person (FP)
responsible for the project activities in the district will process the monitoring reports received from the
participating schools. The volume o f work involved w i l l depend upon the number o f participating
schools in a given district. The RSG will provide support to the FP for monitoring related activities. The
FP will present the finding o f the monitoring report to the District Steering Committee. The DE0 will
submit the monitoring reports to the Project Focal Point (PFP), which will function as a project
coordination unit, in the Department o f Education (DOE).

The PFP will collect and process monitoring reports from all districts. In this task, the PFP will be
assisted by the Monitoring and Evaluation Section and EMIS Section o f the DOE together with the RSG.
The PFP will present the consolidated monitoring report with a summary o f the findings to the Central
Steering Committee (CSC). The feedback from the CSC will be used for improvement o f the design o f
the LIL and will be disseminated to the regional directorates, districts and participating schools. The PFP
will provide financial monitoring reports (FMRs) to IDA on a trimester basis, within 35 days after the
end o f each trimester.

The project also envisages a formative research, under the proposed baseline studies, to document the
process o f transformation o f the school and the community it i s serving. The baseline studies will also
include poverty and social impact assessment o f the households served by the school.

Evaluation of Outcomes: Final evaluation o f the outcomes o f the project will be contracted out to
independent consultants. The evaluation will be based on monitoring and evaluation reports,
aide-memoires o f supervision missions, baseline studies and progress assessment and an extensive field
work. The terms o f reference (TOR) for the evaluation o f the project will be agreed upon with IDA and
the report shall be completed by June 2006.




                                                      - 8 -

C. Project Components and Implementation Arrangements
1. LIL Components
School education comprises primary education (grades 1-5), lower secondary education (grades 6-8),
secondary education (grades 9-10) and higher secondary education (grades 11-12). At present, public
provision serves for around 91% of the total enrolment in primary education, around 73% in lower
secondary and 67% in secondary education. The net enrolment ratio at primary education was 80% in
2000. The gross enrolment ratios o f lower secondary and secondary education in the same year were
58% and 37% respectively. The primary school completion rate was 51% in 2000, while the School
Leaving Certificate Examinations pass rate was 31%. The gender gaps in primary and secondary
education were 12% and 18% respectively.

Difficulties in mainstreaming the children from excluded or disadvantaged households, low promotion
rates and poor learning achievements are among the main weaknesses o f school education. If the current
trend of improvements continues,       it is unlikely that Nepal will be able to meet the targets o f the
Millennium Development Goals. The problems o f school education are mainly associated with poor
accountability o f the school system originating from a poor participation o f stakeholders in the
management o f schools.

In support o f the Government policy o f providing an incentive grant to communities taking over
management o f govemment-funded schools, this project will provide such grants to about 1,500 schools.
Out o f these schools, the project will provide block, performance, supplementary and other grants,
scholarships and technical assistance for capacity building to about 250 schools as follows:

(a)   SchoolGrants Component.The component will provide the following inputs: (a) incentive grants
for communities that take over management o f government-funded schools; (b) block grants tied to
performance for lower secondary and secondary schools funded entirely by the communities o f
govemment-funded primary schools transferred to community management; (c) performance grants for
improvement o f access to primary education and improvement o f promotion rates; (d) supplementary
grants to community schools for schools expanding enrollment to cover additional costs; and (e) other
grants for providing additional support to marginalized communities, and for encouraging for piloting
innovative approaches such as bilingual education, teaching Nepali as a second language, and
employment o f female teachers and teachers from disadvantaged communities. The outputs/outcomes
from the above inputs will be: (i) mainstreaming the bulk o f out-of-school children o f primary school age
into the school system; (ii)improving the access o f girls and disadvantaged communities to lower
secondary and secondary education; (iii)improving the promotion rates and learning achievement; (iv)
increasing the number o f community- managed schools; (v) holistic development o f school - from
primary to lower secondary level; (vi) distributing equitable subsidies to communities; and (vii)
ownership o f schools by communities.

(b)   Scholarship Component. This component will provide booster scholarships to out-of-school
children in the first year and maintenance scholarships in the later years o f primary schools. The
maintenance scholarship will be provided to all children from poor households. The scholarship will be a
demonstration o f Government commitment to mainstream and retain all out-of school children in schools.
This inclusive approach o f the project is likely to transform the social fabric of communities and make
the school a focal point for inclusion.

(c)   Capacity Building. This component will provide the following inputs: (a) assistance to the
communities by NGOs/SOs to organize themselves to manage schools; (b) training for teachers in
instructional planning and delivery, and improving public relation with the community, and for SMC



                                                    - 9 -

members in school management; (c) orientation for civil servants, local government officials and social
workers; and (d) communication o f government policy o f transfer o f schools to community management.
The expected outputs/outcomes from this component are: (i) improved capacity o f communities to
manage schools; and (ii)evolution o f roles o f local government, teachers, district education offices and
other government agencies in relation to community-managed schools.

(d)    Monitoring and Evaluation.This component will assist in the development of a monitoring and
evaluation system for the project in coordination with the existing monitoring and evaluation system
within the MOES, and strengthen the capacity o f officials and communities responsible for monitoring
and evaluation. The output/outcome o f this component will be a well-established and smoothly operating
monitoring and evaluation system that can support periodic improvement in the experimental design of
the LIL. Special emphasis will be given to community level monitoring and evaluation as the LIL relies
heavily on communities for achieving the project outcomes.

                                                               Indicative                Bank-        Yo of
~~




                        Component                                costs       %of       financing      Bank-
                                                                (US$M)       Total      (US$M)      financing
  1. School Grants                                                  3.66        70.7        3.66        73.2
  2. Scholarships                                                   0.44         8.5        0.44         8.8
  3. Capacity Building                                              0.66        12.7        0.56        11.2
  4. Monitoring and Evaluation                                      0.42         8.1        0.34         6.8
                                           Total Project Costs      5.18      100.0         5.00       100.0
                                 Total Financing Reauiredl          5.18 I    100.0 I       5.00 I     100.0 1

2. Implementation Arrangements
Project Management. The organizational structure and fund flow system for the CSSP are presented in
the figure below.

The implementing agency for the project will be the Department o f Education (DOE) under the Ministry
o f Education and Sports (MOES).      The DOE has designated one o f its divisions as the Project Focal
Point (PFP) and the head o f the division is designated as the Project Coordinator. The PFP core team will
comprise the Coordinator, a Deputy Director, a Section Officer, an Accounts Officer and a Procurement
Officer. The PFP will be supported by the whole apparatus o f the DOE and other agencies under the
MOES. The PFP will be guided by a Central Steering Committee (CSC) chaired by the Joint-Secretary,
Planning Division, MOES, and it will include: Director General o f the DOE; one representative each
from NPC, MOF and MOLD; one representative each o f dalits and ethnic minorities; one representative
from among prominent educationists or social workers; and the Coordinator as the Member-Secretary.
The main functions o f the committee will be approving the schools for funding, monitoring progress and
providing policy advice. The representatives from ethnic minorities, dalits and prominent educationists or
social workers, at least one o f whom should be female, will be nominated by the Government in
consultation with IDA. The PFP will be supported by a Research Support Group (RSG).

The DE0 will implement the project activity at the district level. A Focal Person will be designated in
each DE0 to monitor the implementation o f project activities. The FP will report to the DE0 and will be
assisted by other DE0 staff as necessary. The project activities at the district level will be guided by a
District Steering Committee (DSC) comprising District Education Officer - Chair, one representative
from among the SMC Chairpersons o f community-managed government-funded schools in the district
selected by the community-managed schools and Focal Person - Member Secretary. The main functions
o f the DSC will be approving recommendation for release of grants, reviewing progress and providing
feedback on the program.


                                                   - 10-

                                    Organizational Structure and Fund Flow of the Project




                                                                                                  *
         I                                                     I                                          II




                                           Project Focal Point to the DOE                                                                           Central
                                                       Coordinator                                                                                 Steering
                                                                                                                                                Committss


                 DTCO                            District Education Office                                                                          District
                                                       Focal Person                                               .f-+                             Steering
                                                                                                                                               Committee



                                                           School                              .....

                                            .....        Management                                              Advisory                                          Monitoring
                                                          Committee                                            Committee                                           Committee
                                                             A
                                                               .............................................................................................................

                                                 Composition of Committees

   Central Steering Committee: Joint Secretary, Planning, MOES - Chair, Members - Director General, DOE; one
   representativeeach from NPC, MOF and MOLD; 1 representative each from dalits and disadvantaged ethnic minorities,
    1 representativefrom prominent educationists and social workers; and Coordinator PFP - Member-Secretary
   District Steering Committee: District Education Officer - Chair, Members - one of the chairpersons of community
   managedschools, and District Focal Person -Member Secretary

              Line of command         Fund flow             Reporting                       Feedback

                  4                -.-.-.-.-                -->                               ......,.....,...,,..,.....  b



Most o f the activities o f the project will be implemented by the communities - SMCs/schools, and CBOs
supported by SOs. The DE0 will monitor and supervise the communities.

a. Procurement
The summary o f the procurement capacity assessment o f the DOE, the Implementing Agency for the
Project, i s presented in Annex 6. At present, the DOE i s implementing the Basic and Primary Education
Program (BPEP) jointly funded by eight donors including IDA. The BPEP i s usingthe IDA Procurement
Guidelines. The DOE has a reasonably acceptable procurement capacity.

The project will fund grants to schools, scholarships, training, goods, some administrative costs and
services from consulting firms and NGOs/SOs. Over 80 percent o f the funds is allocated to grants and
scholarships. The average level o f grant per school within the project period will be around Rs. 240,000
(US$3000). Most o f the grants are to be disbursed on an installment basis tied to the performance.
Grants will be used solely for developmental activities that have been discussed and endorsed by the
community and enable the community to achieve project objectives that would include, inter alia, small
rehabilitation or construction works, teaching materials, training and consumables. Procurement o f such
goods, works and services will be done by the school following simple procedures described in the


                                                                         - 11 -

Operations Manual. Procurement at the district and central level mainly consists o f services. Senices
and goods w i l l be procured at the district and central levels using IDA Procurement Guidelines,

The PFP will get services from the Procurement In-charges o f the DOE, who have been engaged in
procurement for the BPEP. Similarly at the district level, the official responsible for BPEP procurement
will also handle procurement under the project.

b. Financial Management

Fundsfro)v and Disbiirsenient Armngenr ents

Initially for the first year o f the program until the districts can be identified, the budget for the Project
will be allocated under a separate identifiable budget head at the central level. Following the approval o f
the program and budget estimates, the budget authorization will be released to the Department o f
Education. Based on demands for transfer o f schools from various districts, the Project Focal Point
(PFP) will allocate budget for districts, and provide spending authorization along with the transfer o f
funds to respective District Education Offices (DEOs). DEOs will release funds to the schools that are
qualified to obtain grants based on set indicators, and will maintain a record o f schools receiving grants.
Grants provided to schools meeting specific criteria are considered as expenditures, without any need for
schoolsicommunities receiving such grants to return any savings thereof, if any. Utilization o f grants for
the intended purpose will be closely monitored and reported. Financing o f grants and scholarships are
pre-financed by government's own resources, the consolidated claims o f which are later charged to the
special account or submitted to IDA for reimbursement. Almost 80 percent o f required resources are
pre-financed by the government, and the remaining 20 percent dealing with direct payments to
consultants or suppliers are paid through the special account. A Special Account w i l l be established to
facilitate payments o f various activities under the project. During the first year, as the demands for
school transfers in districts get clearer, Government and IDA will review to determine whether the
arrangement in place should continue or an alternate arrangement should be made from the second year
onwards to transfer the budget to the district level budget allowing the resources to be transferred directly
through the respective District Treasury Controller Offices (DTCOs) to the respective DEOs.

Disbursements will be made against one time incentive grants for all government-funded primary, lower
secondary and secondary schools that choose to take over management responsibilities from the
Government. Selected schools will also get various performance-based grants. Disbursements will also
be made for providing scholarships as per the criteria set to effectively mainstream the out-of-school
children. Funds will also be provided for capacity buildingto encourage communities to experiment with
different modalities o f community mobilization approaches.             Funds will be disbursed to mobilize
community, to train the CBO members, teachers, SMC and V D C members, to orient managers, social
workers and politicians.       Disbursement will also be made to establish an effective monitoring and
evaluation system.      Funds will be provided for the procurement o f various equipment and vehicles
required for the Project Focal Point (PFP), and for incremental operating costs (incremental staff salary
and allowances, operation and maintenance o f facilities used by the PFP for project implementation,
office supplies, and utilities) that will be incurred by the PFP. Costs to cover consultancy services and
training will also be covered under IDA disbursements.

Financial Management

A financial management assessment o f the implementing agency, the Department o f Education (DOE),
was carried out (Summary, Annex 4). The DOE has been implementing the Basic and Primary Education
Program (BPEP) jointly with other donors under an innovative "basket" approach. Despite the new


                                                      - 12-

initiative and several challenges, the DOE has been satisfactorily managing the basket approach. An
Accounts Officer has been designated for the Project. In view o f proven experience o f managing the
BPEP and a satisfactory financial management system in place, the overall institutional financial
management risk is moderate. The first draft o f an Operations Manual, which will describe the reporting,
monitoring and accounting procedures, has been completed. The manual will contain simple reporting
formats that can be implemented by schools at the community level. It will provide guidelines stating
how the accounts o f the grants received should be maintained, and also specify the reporting format that
should be reported on a trimesterly basis to the DEOs. The report will indicate how the grants are being
spent and how they have contributed to the overall school management. The guidelines will also specify
the scope o f the social audit report which should be submitted to respective DEOs on a trimesterly basis.
A monitoring system will also be established to allow the respective DEOs to monitor the use of grants
on the basis o f the trimesterly reports that will be submitted by the schools.        DEOs will submit a
consolidated report to the PFP, to enable the PFP to assess the outputs o f the grants and related outcomes.


c. Other



D. Risks
1. Social and Environmental Risk

Environmental Category: [X[ C

The project aims to support the govemment's policy that i s designedto empower communities to manage
their own schools. Communities would be provided with block grants which make them responsible for
recruiting and managing teachers, determining resource requirements, and utilizing those resources
according to local needs. Indigenous people, if any, in the project areas will benefit from the project
through their mainstreaming into primary education. It also provides for scholarships to disadvantaged
children and, therefore, would help improve equity. The project will assist indigenous communities,
dalits and disadvantaged communities to organize so that their interests are protected.

No new schools will be built under the project. The project will not fund civil works directly. Grants
received by schools may be used for rehabilitation o f existing facilities and minor new construction
within the boundaries o f existing schools. The average grant per school will not exceed Rs. 240,000
(US$3,000), most o f which i s to beused for non-construction activities. Therefore, negative
environmental impacts are not expected from the CSSP.

a. Safeguard Policies
This project triggers Environmental Assessment OP 4.01 and Indigenous Peoples OD 4.20.

Environmental Assessment OP 4.01: N o new land will be acquired for the project. Therefore, culturally
sensitive areas or critical natural habitats will not be affected.    The project does not directly fund
construction, which if any, will be minor or associated with rehabilitation. The scale o f construction, if
any, will be very small. Therefore, the impact on the bio-physical environment will be very small.

Indigenous Peoples OD 4.20: The project aims to mainstream out-of-school children, many o f whom
will belong to indigenous peoples, dalits and disadvantaged. Maximizing project benefits to these groups
will be the focus o f the project. An Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) has been prepared for


                                                   - 13-

the project and is presented in Annex 10. The IPDP was translated into Nepali and disclosed to
stakeholders. Negative impacts on these groups are not expected.
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
b. Other Social Risks
The CSSP is aimed at assisting the Govemment in effective implementation o f the existing policy o f
transferring school management to communities. This policy, already under implementation, enjoys
broad social and political support. Since it should help empower more marginalized cominunities as
mentioned above, social risks associated with the project are minimal and without implications for any
reputational risks for the Bank. The potential positive social outcomes o f the project outweigh any
possible risks.

2. Other (external, reflecting the failure of the assumptionsin the fourth column of Annex 1)
                   Risk                          Risk Rating      I            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The Government may not abide by its
commitment to fund and provide                        N          l
technical assistance to                                           I

community-managed schools.
The Government may not abide by its                   S            To work out up front clear procedures for
commitment to withdraw government                                  withdrawing teachers from community-
teachers when requested by the SMCs.                               managed schools. To orient bureaucrats on this
                                                                   procedures.
                                                      M
The Government may not abide by its                                To promote networking among community-
commitment to let SMCs manage schools                              managed schools so that they can own interests.
without government interference.                                   T o issue a clear code o f conduct with respect to
                                                                   support to community schools.

The Government may have difficulty in                 M            To change the existing mode o f input-based,
financing school transfer if the                                   in-kindsupport from donor funding to
community response becomes                                         outcome-based support in cash.
overwhelming.
Dominant caste/ethnic groups in some                  M            To carry out intensive social mobilization and
communities may resist gender, caste and                           to evolve processes for election o f school
ethnic mainstreamingo f students.                                  management committees accountable to dalits
                                                                   and disadvantaged ethnic minorities.
 From Components to Outputs
Poor communities may not be able to                   M            T o assist communities get engaged in income
mobilize local resources.                                          generation activities through training. To
                                                                   introduce equity-based grants.
 Overall Risk Rating                                  M
Risk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris , M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)
           -




                                                    - 1 4 -

   E. Main Loan Conditions
   1. Effectiveness Condition
   Legal opinion by the Ministry of Law and Justice that the Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
   by the Kingdom o f Nepal and legally binding on the saiiie.

   2. Other (classify according to co\,cnant t!'pcs used in the Lcgal Agrecnicnts.)
   Thc. consolidated accounts for all components will be inaintained for anriunl audit by the Office of the
   Auditor General, and a certified project accounts including stateinent of expenditures account and speci:il
   account \\illbe submitted to IDA n.ithin six months of the close ofeach financial }.ear.

   F. Readiness for Implementation
   -_
   ..  1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the

   -..      start o f project impIementation.
       1. b) Not applicable.
   -
   -2.Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstsixmonths'activitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
          of project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard
   x      bidding documents that will be usedfor ongoing procurement throughout the life o f LIL
       3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
   - quality.
   -4.Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):




   G. Compliance with Bank Policies
   -   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
   _ _ 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
          with all other applicable Bank policies.




Rajendra Dhoj Joshi                      MichelleRiboud
TeHm Leader-                             Sector Manager                           Country Manager




                                                      - 1 5 -

                                      Annex I : Project Design Summary
                              NEPAL: Community School Support Project
I1                                     Key Performance         Data CollectionStrategy
                                  ~




   Hierarchy of Obiectives                 Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
  Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:               iectorl country reports:   ?om Goal to Bank Mission)
   0  Devolution of                                             0 National Education      0  Schools continue to
      responsibiIity for           0  Increase in nuinber of      h.1anageiiient             receive adequntt. public
      iiianagetnent of                co111m11nity-ilian:Iged     InFormation System         Fundirig
      schooling u.iththe              schools.                  0 CoinparatiLe
      intention o f raising        0  Comitiunity-managed         assessment of
      overall accountability          schools emerge as           cormnunity-managed
      o f                             leading public schools      and private schools
      Govemment-financed                                        0 Parents' satisfaction
      schools                                                     survey
   0  Targeting educationally      0  Enrolment profile of      0 Baseline studies        :ommunities can be
      and socially                    schools more                                        nobilized to support
      disadvantaged groups            compatible with ethnic,                             :ender, caste and ethnic
I                                     caste and gender                                    nainstreaming
                                      profile o f communities
                                      they serve


  Follow-on Development
  Objective:


   0  To develop a critical        0  Improved capacity o f     0 National Education
      knowledge base for              the Government to            Management
      successful upscaling o f        support community            Information System
      transfer o f management         based schools             0  Parents' satisfaction
      o f govemment-funded         0 Segregated schooling          survey
      schools to communities          for rich and poor
                                      originating from
                                      perceived significant
                                      quality gap between
                                      public and private
                                      provision starts to fade
                                      incase o f
                                      community-managed
                                      schools
                                   0  Significant
                                      improvement in access
                                      to and efficiency and
                                      quality o f
                                      community-managed
                                      primary education




                                  3utcome I Impact             Project reports:           :from Objective to Goal)
                                                                          ~




  Objective:                       ndicators:


                                                            -16-

I0  T o test whether         0 Improvement in              Financial Monitoring   0  Local government
    community                  participation and           Reports                   elections are held
    management o f schools     promotion rates             Evaluation reports     0  Peaceful environment
    can better contribute      Viable modalities for       Parents' satisfaction     i s established
    to enhance (a)             community                   survey
    participation rates, (b)   management o f schools      Records o f social
    quality and efficiency;    established                 audits
    and (c) accountability   0 Confidence o f public in
    o f schools                community-managed
                               schools established




 Output from each            htput Indicators:          `rojectreports:           from Outputs to Objective)
 Component:
 School Grants                 Enrolment rate o f          Financial Monitoring   0  The Government sticks
 0  Enhanced participation     children o f age 6          Reports                   to its commitment to
    and promotion            0 Net  enrolment ratio o f    Independent evaluation    fund and provide
    Increase innumber o f      primary education           Supervision mission       technical assistance to
    community managed          Enrolment rate o f girls    reports                   community-managed
    schools                    and disadvantaged         0 Implementation            schools.
    Equityenhancement          communities                 Completion Report      0  The Government abide:
    through block grants to    Promotion, repetition        Status reports           by its commitment to
    community schools not      and dropout rates         0 Parents' satisfaction     withdraw government
    receivingpublic            Improvement o f              survey                   teachers when
    funding                    physical facilities         National Education        requested by the SMCs
 Scholarships                0  Share o f female            Management                The Government abide:
  0 Mainstreaming o f          teachers                     Information System       by its commitment to
    out-of-school children     Representationo f            School annual reports     let SMCs manage
  0 Improved retention o f     women and                    Baseline studies          schools without
    children from              disadvantaged                                          government
    disadvantaged               communities in various                                interference.
    households                  committees                                            The Government
 CapacityBuilding              Frequency o f meetings                                 adjusts the block grants
  0 Capacityof                 and monitoring                                         as the enrolment
    communities to             Community                                              changes.
    manage, monitor and        contribution in cash
    support schools            and kind
    developed                  Relationship between
    Enhanced professional      community-managed
    and management skills       schools and district
    o f teachers               education offices
  0 Improvement in social       Quality o f monitoring
    fabric by developing       reports
    inclusive approaches in
    school management
    and operation


                                                    -17-

 0 Roles of local
    government, line
    agencies and
    communities with
    respect to schools
    crystallized
 0 Monitoring and
    Evaluation
 0  Participatory
    monitoring modalities
    developed
 0  Monitoring capacity o f
    line agencies
    strengthened




'roject Components I        nputs: (budget for each      'roject reports:        (from Components to
iub-components:             :omponent)                                           Outputs)

 0 School grants              US$3.66 million             0 Audit reports          0 Community i s able to
 0 Scholarships               US$0.44 million             0 Financial Monitoring     generate matching fund
 0 Capacity   building         US$0.66 million
 0 Monitoring and            0USs0.42 million
    evaluation




                                                   - 1 8 -

                          Annex la: ProjectMonitoring Baselineand Targets

  Key Performance Indicator:
                                                                            Baseline  Mid-term     End of
                                                                            06/30/03  09/30/04     Project
                                                                                                   07/15106
  Outcome/ImDact Indicator                                                            Target       Target
                                                  Fully supported schools
  Out-of-school children o f primary age in the service area, YO               n     8 0 % o f a    5Oo/O o f n
  Out-of-school children o f age 6 in the school service area, %               b     7 0 % o f b    3 3 % o f b
  Weighted average repetition and dropout rate o f primary grades              c     9 0 % o f c    75%ofc
  together, YO
  Out-of-school girls o f primary age in the service area, YO                  d      8 5 % o f d   5 5 % o f d
  Out-of-school dalit children o f primary age in the service area, %          e     9 0 % o f e    6O%ofe
  Out-of-school disadvantaged ethnic minority children o f primary age in      f 90% off                off
lthe service area. %                                                      I          I            I60%           I
  Out-of-school girls o f age 6 in the school service area, %                  g     7 0 % o f g    3 3 % o f g
  Out-of-school dalit children o f age 6 inthe school service area, %          h     7 0 % o f h    3 3 % o f h
  Out-of-school disadvantaged ethnic minority children o f age 6 in            i 70%ofi           3 3 % o f i
the service area, YO
  Average gender gap in secondary and lower secondary education, %             j 90% ofj            75% o f j
  Gender gap inrate o f transition from primary to lower secondary             k      90% o f k     75% o f k
  grades, %
  Non-dalit to dalit gap in rate o f transition from primary to lower           I     9 0 % o f I 7 5 % 0 f l
  secondary grades, %
  Gender gap inrate o f transition from primary to secondary grades, %         m      9 0 % o f m   7 5 % o f m
  Non-dalit to dalit gap inrate o f transition from primary to secondary       n      9 0 % o f n   7 5 % o f n
  grades, YO
  Weighted average repetition and dropout rates o f lower secondary            o      95% o f o     8O%ofo
I Weighted average
  mades. %
                     repetition and dropout rates o f secondary grades, YOI    p     )95%ofp      \ 8 0 % o f p


  Key Performance
  Indicators6
                                                         Baseline      Mid-term       End of Project
                                                         06/30/03      09/30/04       07/15/06
  OutputIndicators
  Number o f schools transferred to community            86            700            1,500
  management
  Number o f schools receiving full support from         0             200            250
  the project
                            Fully supportedschools
  Training o f NGOsiSOs                                                250            300
  Number o f schools communities mobilized                             200            250
I Number o f school communities oriented                I            I 1.000
  Number o f civil servants and politicians oriented    I            I600           I 1000
                                                        I             I             I                          I



                                                        -19-

Number o f teachers receiving customized        I           1,000    1,500
training
Number o f staff supported for developmental                5        10
assimments                                        I
Participatory monitoring modalities developed               Y        Y
Community mobilization modalities and                      Y         Y
modalities for school management/govemance by
communities including developed modalities for
ensuring o f management committees representing
all cross sections o f parents developed
Framework terms o f reference for employment o f                     Y
teachers b y community managed schools
develoDed
Roles o f local government, district education                       Y
office and other line agencies with respect to
community-managed schools in terms o f funding,
technical assistance, supervision and monitoring
clarified
Frameworks for performance grants and social                Y        Y
contracts for improvements o f access including
innovative scholarship modalities developed




                                                  - 20 -

                                              Policy Framework

Policies                                                                            Due Date for     Responsible
                                                                                    Compliance       Agency
Guidelines for support to community-managed schools developed, which
will among others include:
    Procedures for withdrawing teachers from community-managed                      September,       PFPIMOES
    schools at the request of SMCs within 6 months of the request                   2003
    adopted
 0  Procedures for termination and appointment of headteachers by                   September,       PFP/MOES
    SMCs adopted                                                                    2003
 0  Broad guidelines for appointment of teachers by SMCs of                         September,       PFP/MOES
    community-managed schools adopted                                               2003
 0 Procedures for up front release of block grants to                               October,         PFP/MOF
    community-managed schools adopted                                               2003
Community-managed schools will continue to receive the same level and Complied
kindof support as govemment-managed schools
Regular block grants to community-managed schools will be revised                   Complied
bi-annually
New classroom blocks will be providedpromptly to accommodate                        December,        IOE
increased enrolment if available                                                    2003
N o government teachers will be posted or transferred to community-                 Comp1ied
managed schools
A framework to establish a pension scheme for teachers of                          June 30,2004      'FP/HMG
community-managed schoois will be adopted.

5For schools supported startingfrom the first halfo f the project.Baseline will be establishedfor each of the
project-supportedschools following their selectionby the project.
6For schools supported startingfrom the first halfof the project.




                                                        -21  -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                             NEPAL: Community School Support Project

 School education in Nepal comprise primary education (grades 1-5), lower secondary education (grades
 6-8), secondary education (grades 9-10) and higher secondary education (grades 11-12). Grades 1 to 10
 are administered and/or regulated by the Department o f Education, uhile grades 11 and 12 come under
 the Higher Secondary Education Board. Schools offering secondary or lower secondary programs also
 offer lower level programs.     School education i s offered by government-funded community schools,
 community schools owned and funded by community, and institutional (private) schools. At the primary
                       -
 level, community-owned and private schools account for 2% and 7% o f the total enrolment, while at the
 lower secondary level their shares are 16% and 11% respectively, and at the secondary level 2 1% and
 12% respectively.

 The Net Enrolment Ratio (NER) at primary, lower secondary and secondary levels are around 80%, 33%
 and 20% respectively. The promotion rate at grade 1 i s around 45%, while at grade 10 it i s around 81%.
 The promotion rates and learning achievement levels in private schools are significantly higher than that
 o f government-funded schools in spite o f the fact that government-funded schools on an average have
 better physical facilities and more qualified and trained teachers. To address this weakness o f the public
 school system, the Government has decided to gradually transfer government-funded schools to
 community management. To encourage communities to take over management o f government-funded
 schools, the Government has offered a one-time grant o f Rs. 100,000 (around USS1,200) to communities
 taking over management o f government-funded schools.

 Schools transferred to community management will have full authority for management o f schools
 including hiring and management o f staff, while the Government will continue to fund them through

'block grants, which will not be less than the current level o f funding. Community-managed schools are
 expected to perform better than government-managed schools, as such schools will be accountable to the
 community, whereas the latter i s accountable only to the Government.

 This Community School Support Project (CSSP) i s aimed at learning how schools transferred to
 community management can be best supported in a sustainable manner to improve access to, and quality
 and efficiency o f education, so that this important initiative o f the Government could be up-scaled at a
 fast pace to help Nepal achieve the MDG targets.

 In support o f the Government policy o f providing an incentive grant to communities taking over
 management o f government-funded schools, this project will provide such grants to about 1,500 schools
 (counting each level o f school as one school). Out o f these schools, the project will provide block and
 performance grants, scholarships and technical assistance for capacity building to about 175 primary
 schools, 50 lower secondary schools and 25 secondary schools, while the remaining schools will receive
 only a token assistance limited to development o f school vision and building their capacity for
 monitoringprogress in achievement o f their vision.

 While incentive grants will be made available to community-managed government-funded schools on a
 first-come  first-serve basis, schools for full project support - all or some o f block, incentive, other,
 performance and supplementary grants     - will be selected by the Government using criteria agreed upon
 with the Bank.

 Although this project finances primary, lower secondary and secondary schools, the project gives greater
 focus to primary schools. One o f the reasons for extending support to lower secondary and secondary


                                                     - 22 -

schools is that in Nepal, very often such schools are integrated with primary schools, and it i s not feasible
to improve only a section o f the school. The project will have the following components: (a) School
Grants; (b) Scholarships; (c) Capacity Building; and (d) Monitoring and Evaluation.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$3.66 million
                       -

School Grants. The Education Act articulates the obligation o f the Government to primary education as
providing the full cost o f salaries for teachers, and the partial costs o f salaries for secondary education.
The obligation for mobilizing resources for other expenditures, especially physical infrastructure, lies
with the communities. In spite o f the above provision, the Government has been providing inputs for
capacity building, teacher training, physical facilities, etc., through the development budget - largely
funded by donors. If the grants for salaries are directly disbursed to schools, the allocations for other
expenses are mostly spent by district level agencies for activities aimed at supporting schools.

The funds disbursed directly to schools for salaries or funds spent by districts for schools have not
empowered schools as the salaries are to be paid to the teachers employed by the Government and
schools have little choice over the expenditures from the developmental budget. The CSSP will provide a
one-time incentive grant o f Rs. 100,000 (US$1,200) for government-funded primary schools that choose
to take over management responsibilities from the Govemment consistent with the Govemment policy.
Similarly, it will provide the same amount o f incentive grants to govemment-funded lower secondary and
secondary schools. There i s no risk that incentive grants to lower secondary and secondary schools will
encourage primary schools to upgrade themselves to higher levels, because schools upgraded without
government approval/funding will not be eligible for incentive grants, and the cost o f such upgrading to
be bome by the community is much higher than incentive grants. Tying up incentive grants to school
levels i s also an attempt to link the grants with the school size.

Schools inpoorer areas may need greater incentives to opt for community management, as they are likely
to be less well o f f in terms o f physical facilities and, as investment and operating costs are likely to be
higher in such areas. The CSSP will specifically study the incentive structures that could attract poor
remote schools to community management.

To ensure replicability o f the LIL experience, the proposed incentive grants together with performance
grants described below, will be kept within the range o f the supports schools are receiving from the
development budget. Therefore, incentive grants essentially attempt to empower schools b y disbursing
the funds being spent for the schools by the Govemment agencies to the schools directly, which will
allow the schools to make their own choices. The incentive grants are deemed critical for encouraging
more and more communities to take over management o f schools and provide some resources up front to
enable them to initiate school improvement activities right away.

Some o f the govemment-funded primary schools transferred to community management may have lower
secondary and secondary levels funded by the community, as it is usual practice to upgrade primary
schools to lower secondary and secondary levels through community efforts. Many o f such schools
eventually manage to get Govemment funding for lower secondary and secondary levels also. It i s in the
interest o f the Government to strengthen such schools, as success o f such schools will help to expand
community-managed schools. In this context the CSSP also will provide block grants tied to performance
to exclusively community-funded lower secondary and secondary levels o f government-funded primary
schools transferred to communities. These grants will cover up to 25% and 50% o f staff costs for
secondary and lower secondary schools, respectively.


                                                       - 23 -

Mainstreaming the children from socially excluded families requires serious efforts. Lack o f incentives
for schools in their mainstreaming has resulted in failure o f consecutive five-year plans in achieving the
targets for improving participation rates in primary education. For example, the net enrolment ratio
target for primary education in both the eighth and ninth five-year plans were 90%, while the
achievement at the end o f ninth plan - mid-2002 - is estimated at around 83%. Therefore, the CSSP aims
at learning the potential o f incentives in accelerating mainstreaming o f out-of-school children. The
schools will receive a performance grant o f Rs. 500 for mainstreaming each out-of-school child o f
primary school age.

The project is counting heavily on social mobilization for inclusion o f indigenous, disadvantaged and
dalit communities excluded from education. The social mobilization will lead to a social contract, which
i s at the core o f the CSSP design, between the excluded community and the School Management
Committee (SMC) witnessed by the community benefiting from school, the local government (VDC or
municipality) and the District Education Office (DEO). The social contract i s intended to articulate: (a)
the community's commitment to ensure inclusion of all households excluded from education; (b) clear
delineation o f the roles o f all parties to the contract; and (c) specific mutual obligations o f these parties to
each other. Social mobilization o f various stakeholder groups in the community around the articulation
and implementation o f the social contract will be key to the project approach. It will be particularly
critical to involve and empower the three groups who make up the bulk o f the out o f school population:
females, dalits and disadvantaged ethnic groups.

The primary cycle completion rate in year 2000 was around 54%, whereas the percentage o f children
completing the primary cycle within the prescribed duration was only 14%. L o w completion rate i s the
greatest impediment towards achieving the MDG o f universal primary education by 2015. Therefore
with a view to learn the impact o f incentives on improvement o f pass rates, schools will be given a
performance grant o f around Rs. 500/gain in pass ratelgrade for primary grades.                     Standardized
assessments will be conducted for ensuring validity o f tests.

The performance grants for access and completion rate improvements, and scholarships for out o f school
children, are likely to boost enrolment. The CSSP i s not likely to achieve its objectives if schools do not
receive additional resources to respond to the need for more teachers and physical facilities. Therefore,
the CSSP will provide block grant to schools to enable them to meet needs for more teachers and
physical facilities till the schools are able to receive such support from the Government. This policy fits
well within the Government policy o f moving to block grants rather than directly bearing operating costs
o f schools.

Schools operate within diverse socio-economic and cultural environment, and consequently a flat level o f
grants may discriminate against poor communities making them unable to get transferred to community
management as well as make desired improvement intargeted indicators.

For almost half o f the population, Nepali i s not the mother tongue, yet the medium o f instruction in
community primary schools i s Nepali. This has been recognized as one o f the major reasons contributing
to high dropout rates in primary education. During the consultations in the course o f preparation o f the
project, the Nepal Federation o f Nationalities emphasized the need for dealing with this critical issue.
Introduction o f bilingual education and teaching Nepali as a second language may help address this
difficulty.

There is a lot o f evidence that the presence o f female teachers in schools significantly contributes to



                                                        - 24 -

improvement in participation rates o f girls and improvement on learning environment in schools. The
Government's policy o f employing at least one female teacher in every primary school remains
unfulfilled mainly due to social biases in favor o f males. Similarly, there is some evidence that
recruitment o f teachers from disadvantaged communities help in improving access to education for
children from disadvantaged communities.

The project will provide other grants specially targeted to marginalized communities, to piloting of
innovative approaches such as bilingual education, teaching Nepali as a second language, and to
recruiting female teachers and teachers from disadvantaged communities.

A critical factor that affects progression and completion rates i s the standard o f instruction and
performance level a school community sets for itself. Hence, attempts will be made to connect qua1itatii.e
improvement in school/classroom atmosphere, instructional processes and learning acquisition level Lvith
the performance grants.

The ultimate achievement o f the project objectives will be contingent upon success o f the communities in
improving the learning environment for children. Although the grants are not directly tied to the
improvement in learning environment, the project will focus on assisting the communities to
continuously improve the learning environment in schools in a systematic manner.

Community vision o f school improvement and optimum child development will be the focus o f the
reform activities. Enhanced consciousness and community participation in the management o f reform
activities will serve as a glue that will bring together different actors to make a difference in school
improvement and child learning. The effect and impact o f improved school atmosphere and instructional
quality on mainstreaming out-of-school children will also be closely examined.

Project Component 2 US$0.44 million
                      -

Scholarships.Around 20% o f the primary age children are still out o f school in spite o f the fact that the
Government is providing free textbooks and n o fees are levied in government-funded primary schools. It
i s believed that one o f the main barriers for mainstreaming such children into primary education i s the
inability o f households to bear other costs associated with schooling such as cost o f stationaries, school
uniforms, and in some cases opportunity cost o f labor. With a view to overcome this barrier, the
Government has been providing various scholarships specifically for girls, dalits, and children from
households below the poverty line. The success o f these scholarships inmainstreaming the disadvantaged
communities into primary education has been limited. Some o f the arguments questioning the
effectiveness o f the current scholarship programs are: (a) the scholarship i s too small to dismantle the
barriers that the hard core groups are facing; (b) the mechanism for distribution o f scholarship does not
preclude elite capture o f the scholarship funds; and (c) the scholarships are received only at the end o f
academic year making them accessible only to children already in school.

The scholarship component will be aimed at understanding how could scholarships be used effectively
for mainstreaming the out-of-school children. The CSSP will aim at mainstreaming all out-of-school
children within the service area o f community-managed schools funded by the project. The communities
will be allowed to design scholarship modalities including topping up o f scholarships using performance
grant for access. The basis for estimating scholarship grants to schools will be as follows:

     The first child and/or the first girl child from poor families, from which none o f the family members
     ever completed primary school, will be offered a scholarship o f Rs. 500 per year at grade 1 and Rs.
     250 per year in subsequent years. Other children from such families will receive Rs. 250 per year.


                                                     - 25 -

    This design i s based on the assumptions that: (a) higher scholarship is required to entice
    out-of-school children, but they can be retained by providing lower maintenance scholarship; and (b)
    once the first child and/or the first girl child goes to school, the household is likely to send other
    children to school even without an enhanced scholarship.

    The scholarship will become a part o f the social contract referred to above, so that there is social
    obligation for parties signing the contract to make sure that out-of-school children not only get
    enrolled, but also retained to the end o f primary school.

    This component will also provide scholarships for attending lower secondary and secondary schools
    to the first girl and to the first boy from poor dalitloppressedidisadvantaged janjati families, from
    which none o f the family members completed secondary school. This scholarship is aimed at
    improving access to secondary education for children from disadvantaged households. The estimates
    for scholarship grant are based on the assumption that the scholarships for lower secondary and
    secondary schools are Rs. 700 and Rs. 1,000 per child per year. The schools will be given flexibility
    to adjust the scholarship amounts. This component will also pilot scholarships for other secondary
    children (apart from the first boy and girl).

    As mitigation o f social and cultural barriers apart from economic barriers are critical to successful
    mainstreaming o f out-of-school children, the scholarship design will also take into account social and
    cultural background o f the school service area.

Project Component 3 US$ 0.66 million
                      -
Capacity Building. Community-driven development i s being promoted across the world as an approach
that can contribute to improvement o f service delivery. EDUCO in El Salvador, BRAC in Bangladesh
and PRONADE in Guatemala are related to such successful initiatives. The community-driven
development approach i s being successfully applied in forestry, rural energy and water supply sectors in
Nepal. The Community-Owned Primary Education Program (COPE) in Nepal, assisted by the UNDP,
does demonstrate the capacity o f communities to manage schools. COPE is supporting new
community-owned schools that do not receive public funding, and hence, communities manage them on
their own. Similarly, there are around 8,000 schools owned and managed by communities that do not
receive public funding. This LIL aims at expanding the experience o f community management to public
schools, which by virtue o f receiving public fundingand having government teachers have very different
characteristics.
The experience o f successful community-driven development indicates the need for rigorous community
mobilization exercise for success o f community-driven development. This component will fund
community mobilization activities in the service area o f schools funded by the project. Community
mobilization will mainly draw upon seven basic principles adapted from the highly successful Rural
Energy Development Program - skill enhancement, women's empowerment, establishment o f self
governing community organizations, capital formation, technology promotion, literacy promotion and
environment conservation. However, it i s to be noted here that none o f the community mobilization
approaches adopted in other sectors exactly responds to the type o f community that this project serves.
For example, if water supply, forestry and rural energy projects provide services to the whole community
within the given locality, the community-managed schools provide services to only part o f the
community as some households may be getting services from private schools and others may not have
school-age children. Therefore, the project will encourage communities to try out different modalities o f
community mobilization approaches. Major activities o f this component comprise community
mobilization through a facilitator, training for CBO members, training o f teachers, SMC and V D C
members, orientation o f managers and social workers. NGOs/SOs, which will be hired by the


                                                     - 26 -

communities themselves from among those qualified by the Department o f Education, will be used for
community mobilization as they have developed a good capacity in this area. For empowering
communities this component will provide grants for community mobilization, and training o f
community, teachers and SMC members.
The focus o f capacity building activities will be on enhancing collective consciousness level and on
equipping key stakeholders with skills and readiness level to participate in school improvement activities
that will ensure efficient instructional processes and optimum achievement levels.
This component will also include communication o f the government policy of transferring management
o f government-funded schools to communities within the civil service as kvell as to the public at large.
Effective communication o f this policy will be critical for success in transfer o f schools to communities,
as implementation o f this policy involves changes in the power structure, and consequently, is prone to
misinterpretation from those who may lose privileges from this reform. The project will make the utmost
effort to disseminate the government policy to the disadvantaged janjatis by communicating this policy in
their languages.

Project Component 4 US$0.42 million
                      -
Monitoring and Evaluation. A rigorous documentation and analysis o f the experience generated
through the project w i l l be carried out as a part o f this component with a view to test whether the
hypotheses o f the project have been confirmed, and draw conclusions on the best modalities for delivery
o f various project components. The main hypothesis o f the project i s that community management o f
government-funded schools can better enhance access to schools for all children including children from
disadvantaged communities, and better improve efficiency and quality o f school education compared to
schools not transferred to community management. A set o f indicators comprising progress in
mainstreaming out-of-school children, their retention, pass rates and leaming achievements, and other
qualitative and quantitative parameters indicating school effectiveness like class occurrence, student
regularity, user satisfaction, participation o f parents in school activities, extra curricular activities,
cleanliness will be used for the test o f the hypothesis. A baseline will be established in each o f the
participating schools, and progress will be monitored on a periodic basis. The baseline will be developed
through active participation o f the community and additional indicators reflecting the vision o f the
community with respect to school improvement will be incorporated into the baseline. The community
will be provided with training in order to enable them to periodically monitor progress against their
targets. NGOs/SOs, local government, resource persons, district education offices, regional education
directorates, Department o f Education and Research Support Groups (private firms or NGOs) will be
involved invarious ways at various areas and levels o f monitoring.
As the outcome o f this policy initiative may be significantly affected by the socio-economic and cultural
status o f the community, the baseline survey will incorporate indicators reflecting development stages o f
the communities such as living standard, assets, infrastructure and services, and the ethnic and caste
composition o f communities.
The effectiveness o f various components o f the project will also be evaluated with a view to draw
inferences on promising approaches for delivery o f these components and contribution o f these
components in achieving the overall objective o f the project.

Some o f the other studies to be undertaken as a part o f this component are assessment o f community
mobilization approaches, approaches for ensuring social inclusion in access to education and school
management, assessments o f scholarships and performance grants and project evaluation. T o transfer the
experience generated through the project to universities as well as to benefit from the experience o f
universities, the project will modestly fund student research and field work in related areas. This
component will also fund relevant on-the-job-training (development assignment).


                                                    - 27 -

The success of the project will, to a large extent, depend upon the extent o f success in ensuring synergy
o f inputs from various components. Therefore, components will not be treated as independent activities.
School activities will be guided by its goals, and inputs from various components will be matched with
the requirements o f a given activity. School grants envisaged in this project are designed to give the
communities flexibility in harmonizing inputs from various components. Consistent with this synergetic
approach while executing project inputs along with processes will be monitored. Some o f the processes
that will be carefully monitored in schools are:

     0   Setting o f a vision, goal, standards o f instruction and performance
     e   Transformation o f attitude o f stakeholders by reinforcing positive values
     e   Inclusion o f all segments o f society in school transformation process
     0   Transparency in business transactions
     e   Team spirit and mutual trust
     e   Transformation o f school physical and academiciclassroom environment
     0   Use o f a wide variety o f teaching and learning materials
     0   use o f participatory activity-based teaching learning methods
     e   Monitoring o f visible progress in school functioning and learning level
     e   Interaction on and communication o f school progress

ImplementationArrangements

The Department o f Education (DOE) under the Ministry o f Education and Sports (MOES) will be the
implementing agency for the project. The DOE has designated one o f its divisions as the Project Focal
Point (PFP) and the head o f the division i s the Project Coordinator. The Coordinator will be assisted by a
Deputy Director, a Section Officer, an Accounts Officer, a Procurement Specialist and other officials.
The PFP will be guided by a Central Steering Committee (CSC) comprising Joint-Secretary Planning
Division, MOES - Chair, DG Member, one representative each from NPC, MOF and MOLD, and two
                                  -
representatives from the private sector, Deputy Director designated for the project              -  Member,
Coordinator PFP - Member Secretary. The main functions o f the committee will be to approve annual
plans and budgets, select schools participating in the project, monitor progress o f project activities and
provide policy advice. The representatives from the private sector will be from among prominent
educationists, NGOs and social workers. The representatives from the private sector will be nominated
by the Govemment in consultation with IDA. The PFP will be supported by one o f the Research Support
Groups. The Director General (DG) o f the Department will assume overall responsibility for the project
and will delegate authority for day-to-day operation o f the project to the Coordinator.

The District Education Office (DEO) will implement the project activity at the district level. A District
Focal Person will be designated to implement project activities. The Focal Person will report to the
District Education Officer, and will be assisted by DE0 staff as necessary. The project activities at the
district level will be guided by a District Steering Committee (DSC) comprising District Education
Officer - Chair,       one representative from among the SMC Chairpersons o f community-managed
government-funded schools in the district selected by the community managed schools and Focal Person
-  Member Secretary. The main functions o f the DSC will be recommending annual work plans and
budgets for consideration o f the CSC, screening schools applying for participation in the project,
reviewing progress o f project activities and providing feedback on the program. The District Education
Officer will assume overall responsibility for the project activities in the district and may delegate hidher
authority as appropriate to the District Focal Person.

Most o f the activities o f the project will be implemented by the communities - SMCsischools, and CBOs


                                                       - 28 -

supported by NGOs. The SMCs will have overall responsibility for implementation o f the project
activities within the school communities. The DE0 w i l l monitor and supervise activities of the
communities. For broad community involvement in the project activities, SMCs will form Project
Advisory Committees (PACs), Project Monitoring Committees (PMCs), Social Audit Committee (SACS)
and other committees, as appropriate. Desired composition o f the PAC, PMC and SAC are presented
below for guidance. The SMCs may use their judgment with respect to composition o f the committees.

Composition o f the Project Advisory Committee

1.  SMC Chairperson                                           Chair
2. All other members o f SMC                                  Member
3.  Chairperson, Parent Teacher Association                   Member
4. Chairpersons o f all committees formed according
    to Guidelines for Transferring management of
    Schools to Communities                                    Member
5.  A male and a female representative o f
    disadvantaged communities
6. A male and a female representative o f
    parents o f out-of-school children from indigenousIdalit
    /disadvantaged communities                                Member
7. Parents of children studyinginprimary grades               Member
8. Representatives o f pupils including one
   from primary grades and one girl                           Member
9. Chairpersons PMC and SAC                                   Member
10.Head teacher                                               Member-Secretary
11.Chairperson, Village Development Committee                 Advisor


Composition o f the Project Monitoring Committee

1. One male and one female representative o f parents         Member
2. One male pupil and one female pupil                         Member
3.  One male and one female representatives from
    disadvantagedlindigenousldalitcommunities                 Member
4. One social worker                                          Member

A Chairperson will be electedby the members from among the members.


Composition o f the Social Audit Committee

1. One male and one female representative o f parents         Member
2. One male pupil and one female pupil                                Member
3.  One social worker                                         Member

A Chairperson will be elected by the members from among the members.




                                                   - 29 -

                                             Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                  NEPAL: Community School Support Project

                                                                                                  Local              Foreign                  Total
                       Project Cost By Component                                              US $million          US $million            US $million
School Grants                                                                                      3.2 1                 0.00                    3.21
SchoInrships                                                                                       0.38                  0.00                    0.38
C ;ipacity 3 ti i1diiig                                                                            0.59                  0.00                    0.59
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                          0.45                  0.00                    0.45
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                4.66                  0.00                    4.66
 Physical Contingencies                                                                            0.30                  0.00                    0.30
 Price Contingencies                                                                               0.22                  0.00
                                          Total Project Costs1                                     5.18                  0.00                    5.18
                                  Total Financing Required                                         5.18                  0.00                    5.18

                                                                                                  Local              Foreign                  Total
                         Project Cost By Category                                             US $million          US $million            US $million
Grants                                                                                               3.21                    0.00                     3.21
Scholarships                                                                                         0.38                    0.00                     0.38
Goods                                                                                                0.08                    0.00                     0.08
Services                                                                                             0.52                    0.00                     0.52
Training, study visits, development assignments,                                                     0.15                    0.00                     0.15
student research
Incremental Operating Costs                                                                          0.32                    0.00                     0.32
Unallocated                                                                                          0.52                    0.00                     0.52
                                                         Total Project Costs1                        5.18                    0.00                     5.18
                                                 Total Financing Required                            5.18      1             0.00      I              5.18

   I
    ldentifiable taxes and duties are 0.I 8 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes. is 5 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 100% of
  total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                    - 30 -

                                   Annex 4: Financial Management
                             NEPAL: Community School Support Project

Financial Management Arrangements

         The Department o f Education (DOE) is responsible for the management o f project funds,
including the proceeds o f the credit and counterpart funds. DOE has designated a Project Focal Point
(PFP), which functions as the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), and is responsible for overall project
coordination and consolidation o f accounts. Its Accounting Division will be responsible to perform the
relevant financial management functions. A Financial Controller, who has several years o f relevant
accounting experience, heads the Division. There i s a total of six staff in the DOE, including the
Accounts Controller. The DOE has designated one o f the Accounts Officer for the project. The Accounts
Officer shall be responsible for assisting in formulating the annual budget, operation o f the accounting
system, supervision o f district level accountants, training o f district level accountants, and monitoring o f
overall financial transaction.

Accounting Arrangements and Funds Flow

          A separate budget head will be assigned in the Government's Budget (Red Book) which will
allow reporting o f expenditures and accounts under IDA funding. Initially for the first year o f the
program, until the districts can be identified, the budget for the Project will be allocated under a separate
identifiable budget head at the central level.       Following the approval o f the program and budget
estimates, the budget authorization will be provided to the Department o f Education. Based on demands
for transfer o f schools from various districts, the Project Focal Point (PFP) will allocate budget for
districts, and the DOE will issue spending authorization and transfer funds to respective District
Education Offices (DEOs). DEOs will release funds to schools that are qualified to obtain grants based
on set indicators, and will maintain a record o f schools receiving grants.        Grants provided to schools
meeting specific criteria are considered as expenditures, without any need for schools/communities
receiving such grants to return any savings thereof. Utilization of grants for the intended purpose will be
closely monitored and reported. Financing o f grants and scholarships are pre-financed by government's
own resources, the consolidated claims o f which are later charged to the Special Account or submittedto
IDA for reimbursement. Almost 80 percent o f required resources are pre-financed by the government,
and the remaining 20 percent dealing with direct payments to consultants or suppliers are paid through
the special account.

         Duringthe first year, as the demands for school transfers in districts get clearer, HMG and IDA
will review to determine whether the arrangement in place should continue or an alternate arrangement
should be made from the second year onwards to transfer the budget to the district level budget allowing
the resources to be transferred directly through the respective District Treasury Controller Offices
(DTCOs) to the respective DEOs. Following the handover decisions o f schools to communities by the
Central Steering Committee and on signing o f agreement between the DE0 and schools incentives grants
will be released by the DEOs to the SMCs. Similarly, other school grants tied to performance will be
released to schools on approval by the District Steering Committee.               The DOE will maintain the
accounts for the project in accordance with the Government's cash-based accounting systems. The DOE
has computer facility to maintain the accounts in spreadsheets. The DOE has a rich experience o f
implementing innovative approach of basket funding involving five donors for the Basic and Primary
Education Program. The accounting systems contain the following features: (a) application o f consistent
cash accounting principles for documenting, recording, and reporting its financial transactions; (b) a
well-defined chart o f accounts that allows meaningful summarization o f financial transactions for



                                                     -31 -

financial reporting purposes; (c) maintenance o f withdrawal monitoring register, SOE record, and special
account register; (d) the use o f an asset register; (e) monthly closing and reconciliation o f accounts and
statements; and (f) the production o f annual financial statements acceptable to IDA.

Internal Control

        An Operations Manual containing among others the reporting and accounting procedure, and
intemal control arrangements for the project i s under preparation. The Draft manual is expected to be
completed by the negotiations date. The manual will also contain simple reporting formats that can be
implemented by schools at the community level. It \vi11 provide guidelines as to how the accounts o f the
grants received should be maintained, and also specify the reporting format that should be reported on a
trimesterly basis to the DEOs. The report will indicate how the grant i s being spent and how it has
contributed to the overall school management.        It will specify internal control measures to ensure that
funds are spent for the intended purpose, and records are maintained that should be transparent to the
community and other interest groups. The guidelines will also specify a need for regular social audit and
submission o f such reports to DEOs on a trimester basis. A monitoring system will also be established to
allow the respective DEOs to monitor the use o f grants on the basis o f trimesterly reports that w i l l be
submitted by the schools. DEOs will fulfill the role o f internal evaluators to oversee the proper use o f
grants.  DEOs will submit a consolidated report to the PFP o f the DOE to enable the PFP to assess the
outputs o f the grants and related outcomes.

        The PFP will also arrange to recruit independent evaluators to visit districts and evaluate the
works o f DEOs and the communities against the approved operations manual. Independent evaluators
will submit an independent assessment report to the PFP with recommendations for improvements in the
system. Initially, independent evaluators will be fielded every six months.

        A mechanism will also be put in place for technical audit during the mid-term review to measure
the outcomes o f the grants provided to schools. DOE will hire independent consultants qualified to carry
out performance audit to measure the impact o f the grant.

        District Education Offices will be responsible to maintain district level accounts under a separate
ledger for the given budget head. DEOs will forward the monthly statements to the DOE which will
prepare a consolidated monthly statement. A consolidated project expenditures will be reported by the
DOE'SAccounting Division, based on the accounts maintained by it and the information providedby the
DEOs on district project activities and grants expenditures. The annual financial statements will include,
at a minimum, the following documents: (a) a Summary o f Sources and Uses o f Funds; (b) uses o f Funds
by Project Activity; (c) summaries o f the Special Accounts statements and o f SOE disbursements, and (d)
notes to financial statements.

Audit

        Annual project accounts (including statement o f expenditures and special account) o f the project
will be maintained by the PFP and will be audited by the Office o f the Auditor General o f Nepal
(OAGN) as required by the Constitution o f the Kingdom o f Nepal, with audit reports due within six
months o f the end o f each fiscal year.

        During audits, the grants released to communities will be considered as expenditures and
accounts will be maintained as incurred expenditures, and audits thereof will be based on total grants
released. Since grants released are treated as expenditures, there will be no need for recipients to refund


                                                     - 32 -

the savings, if any, of the receivedgrants.

Reportingand Monitoring

        Schoolsicommunities will submit the trimester report as specified in the operations manual to
respective DEOs. Respective DEOs will prepare a summary report for submission to the PFP. The PFP
will prepare the financial monitoring report (FMR) on a trimesterly basis reporting the implementation
progress on financial, physical progress and procurement. The PFP and IDA \\illagree to a reporting
format during negotiations, which will be used as the standard form of reporting the progress both to
HMGN and IDA.

SupervisionPlan

        IDA will supervise the project on a regular basis, and more particularly, focus on the following
during supervision:

    -   Review of Statement of Expenditures(SOE), and

    -   Periodic field visit to DEOs and communityschools to oversee the use of grants and financial
    management at DE0 and communitylevel.

        Supervisionwill be on an ongoingbasis from the Nepal Country Office, and will flag the issues
on a timely basis.




                                                - 33 -

Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                           2
First Bank mission (identification)                                                  02:15/2003
Appraisal mission departure                               05/05,2003                 05:1212003
Negotiations                                              06/09,2003                 06 09'2003



Prepared by:
Department o f Education, Ministry o f Education and Sports

Preparation assistance:
None

Bank staff who worked on the project included:

        Name                                            Speciality
Rajendra D.Joshi                         Sr. Education Specialist, Task Team Leader
Susan E.Hirshberg                        Sr. Education Specialist
Bigyan Pradhan                           Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Kiran Ranjan Baral                       Sr. Procurement Specialist
LynnBennett                              Lead Social Scientist
Nawaf A. Al-Mahamel                      Counsel
Ivonna Kratynski                         Senior Financial Officer
Afshan H.Khawaja                         Senior Social Scientist
Gertrude Cooper                          Program Assistant
Sushila Rai                              Program Assistant




                                                  - 34 -

                    Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
                             NEPAL: Community School Support Project

Procurement

A. InstitutionalCapacity

As a part of the project appraisal, the Bank carried out an assessment to determine the institutional
capacity to carry out procurement in accordance with the World Bank guidelines for procurement and for
selection o f consultants o f the Project Focal Point (PFP), which will function as a project coordination
unit, within the Department of Education (DOE). The PFP will manage the procurement activities of the
corresponding Part o f the Project. At present, the Department o f Education (DOE) i s implementing the
Basic and Primary Education Program (BPEP) jointly funded by five donors including IDA under a
basket funding approach. Procurement i s being carried out in accordance with IDA Procurement
Guidelines. Over the four years o f implementation o f this project, DOE has gradually built up its
procurement capacity which i s now well developed at the central level and reasonably developed at
district level.

B. ProcurementMethods

All goods financed under the IDA credit shall be procured at the Central and District levels inaccordance
with Bank guidelines for procurement (Guidelines: IBRDLoans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). All consultant services and training and
orientation funded by the IDA credit/grant shall be selected in accordance with the guidelines
(Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999, and M a y 2002).

IProcurementmethods (Table A)                                I

The expenditure categories and their respective estimated costs, the procurement method and the
respective amounts in parenthesis financed by the IDA Credit are summarized inTable A.




                                               Procurement Method l i
Expenditure        ~ICBIIS           ~NCBINSIIS         lother 21       ~ . B . F       /TotalCost

(1 Grants                                               13.21                           13.19




Services
(5) Training, Study                  0.15                                                0.15
Tours, Development
Assignments
(6)Incremental                                          0.32                             0.32
OperatingCost
Unallocated                                                                              0.52
Total                                0.75               3.91                             5.18



                                                      -35  -

                                      Table Al: Consultant SelectionArrangements
                                                    (US%million equivalent)




 Expenditure QCBS             QBS           SFB            LCS           CQ             Other         ~ , B . F .    Total Cost
 Category
 I.Fimis       0.14                         0.06                         0.29                                        0.49
 2. Individuals                                                                         0.03                         0.03
Total          0.I 4                        0.06                         0.29           0.03                         0.52

Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
       QBS = Quality-based Selection (consulting services for NEA institutional strengthening)
       SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
       LCS = Least-Cost Selection
       CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
       Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Single Source Selection o f Firms or
           SOE for Training, etc., Selection of Individual Consultants (per Section v of Guidelines for Consultants), Commercial
           Practices, etc.
       N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed


C.

[Prior review thresholds (Table B)



(i)        Each contract for goods for USS50,OOO equivalent and above.

(ii)       Each contract for consulting services for USS40,OOO and above in case o f firms, and USS10,OOO
           and above in case o f individuals.


                          Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethods and Prior Review 1/


     Expenditure       Contract Value                        ProcurementMethod               Contracts Subject to Prior Review
     Category                                                                                (US$million equivalent)
     (1) Goods          US%50,000                            NCB                                All



     (3) Services      a) Firms, exceeding USS40,OOO                                         a) All
                      b) Individual exceeding US$lO.OOO                                      b) All




                                                              - 36  -

Disbursement

hilocation of credit proceeds (Table C)                                    I
                                     Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

                Expenditure Category          Amount in USS Rlillion          Financing Percentage




I. Grants                                             3.21            100%
2. Scholarships                                       0.38            100%
3. Goods                                              0.07            I00 % of foreign; 100% of local            1


                                                                      expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 85% o f
                                                                      local expenditures for other items procured
                                                                      locally
4. Consulting Services                                0.44            85%
5. Training, Study Tours, Development                 0.14            100%
Assignments
6. Incremental Operating Costs                        0.24            85% during the first year; 75% during the
                                                                      second year; and 65% thereafter
7. Unallocated                                        0.52




DisbursementArrangements

Disbursements from IDA will be made in accordance with traditional disbursement procedures, which
include full documentation or statement o f expenditure (SOE). To facilitate disbursements, a Special
Account will be established.         For large payments exceeding the Special Account threshold, direct
payments will be made by IDA. For small payments including the release o f grants and scholarships,
disbursements from IDA will be on a reimbursement basis.

 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):


SOEs will be used for the following expenditures:

(a) for all grants and scholarship, (b) for goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each,
(c) for consultants' services contracts costing less than US$40,000 in case o f firms, and less than $10,000
or equivalent in case o f individuals, (d) for cost o f training, study tours and development assignments,
and (e) incremental operating costs (incremental staff salary and allowances, operation and maintenance
o f facilities used by the PFP for project implementation, office supplies, and utilities).


 Special account:

A Special Account in US Dollars may be established, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
authorized allocations for special accounts will be US$200,000. The Special Account will be managed
under thejoint signatures o f the Project Coordinator and the Accounts Officer.


                                                     -37 -

                                         Table A: Procurement Plan
                                            (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                                          Indicative
                                                                                                        Completion/
  lckg      ComponentlDesc. of                                               Date of         Date of       Delivery
  No.         ServiceslGoods                  cost'         Method`         RFPATB~          Award           Date'
   1    Capacity Building/NGO                                            August 2003 - September      August 2004: April
        services - 150 packages to be         (0.00)                     lot I;April     2003-lot     2005; February
        procured independently by                                        2004 -lot 2;     1:hla>2004- 2006
        schools                                                          April 2005 -    lot 2; March
                                                                         lot 3)          2005 -lot 3
   2    Training for NGOs - 5               35000.00      QCBS           April 2003      July 2003    November 2005
        packages                              (0.00)
   3    Regional ResearchSupport           128000.00      CQ             April 2003      July 2003    June 2006
        Groups                                (0.00)
   4    Transfer Policy                     51000.00      QCBs           January 2004 March2004       November 2005
        Communication                         (0.00)
   5    Baseline survey evaluation -2
                        -                   70000.00      CQ             June 2003       October 2003 February 2004
        packages                              (0.00)                     October 2005 February 2006 May 2006
   6    Baseline survey - formative         45000.00      CQ             June 2003       October 2003 May 2006
        research                              (0.00)
   8    Project evaluation                  49000.00      CQ             December        March2006     June 2006
                                              (0.00)                     2005
   9    Individual consultant               30000.00
                                              (0.00)
   10   Orientation of civil servantsanc    50000.00      QCBS            July 2003      November      January 2005
        social workers, and monitoring        (0.00)                                      2006
                                 Total    $521000.00
                                              $0.00
'  Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the . All costs include contingencies
   RFP - Request for Proposals, ITB - Invitation to Bid, ICB - Intemational Competitive Bidding, NCB - National

   under a Fixed Budget, LCS - Least-Cost Selection, CQ - Selection Based on Consultants'Qualifications
   Competitive Bidding. QCBS - Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection, QBS - Quality-based Selection. SFB - Selection

)' End of contact may not exceed loadcredit board date




                                                       - 38 -

Disbursement
                             Table B: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

        Expenditure Category        I Amount in US$million    I         Financing Percentage           1
Grants                                          3.2 1                             100
Scholarshim                                     0.38                              IO0
Goods                                           0.07                100% of foreign, 100% o f local
                                                                (es-factory) and 85% local expenditures
                                                                    of other items procured locally
Consulting Services                             0.44                              85
Training, Study Tours, Development              0.I 4                             100
Assignment
IncrementalOperatingCosts                       0.24             85% during the first year, 75% during
                                                                 the second year, and 65% thereafter
IUnallocated                        II          0.52                                                   I
                                                0.00          II

                                                0.00                               ~~




                                                0.00

                                                0.00
                                    II          0.00
                                                0.00          II
 Total Project Costs                            5.00          I
 Total                                          5.OO




                                              - 39 -

                             Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
                           NEPAL: Community School Support Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower's Project Implenientation Plunfor Conlnlunify School Siipport Project. Department of
Education, Ministry o f Education and Sports. May 9, 2003.

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Community School Support Project, Learning Innovation Loan Proposal. South Asia Region, Human
Development Sector. March 14, 2003.

C. Other
Education Regulations, HMGN,2002.
Directives for Community Managed Schools, HMGN. September 2002.
The Seventh Amendment o f Education Act 2028 BS, 2001, HMGN.
The Tenth Five-Year Plan 2002-07, National Planning Commission, 2003.

*Including electronic files




                                                - 40 -

                                             Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                       NEPAL: Community School Support Project
                                                               26-Mar-2003
                                                                                                                     Difference between expected
                                                                                                                              and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                      Cancel  Undisb        Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO71291      2003 Financial Sector Technical Assistance            0 0 0     1600                        000    1667          0 00      0 00
PO50671      2002 NP Telecommunications Sector Reform              0 0 0     2256                        0OC    2325         -0 51      0 c0
PO45052      2000 ROADMAINTENANCEANDDEVELOPMENT                    0 00      54 50                       000    3541        4888         3 56
PO45053      1999 RURAL INFRA LiL                                  0 00       5 00                       0 00     0 78        0 8 7     -0 17
PO40612      1999 BASIC a PRIMARY ED II                            0 0 0     1250                        0 00     5 10        5 77       2 05
PO10530      1998 IRRiG SECTOR DEVT                                0 0 0     7977                        8 01     7.86       17 61       2 32
PO10509      1998 MULTIMODAL TRANSIT                               0 0 0     2350                        0 00     4 30        5.02       4 92
PO10516      1997 RURAL WS& SANITATION                             0 0 0     1830                        155      1.74        4.59       2 52

                                                         Total    0 0 0     232 13                       9 56    95 11       8222       1520




                                                                   -41   -

                                             NEPAL
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                   Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                         Jun 30 2002
                                                  -
                                       InMillions US Dollars

                                                         Committed                       Disbursed
                                                       IFC                             IFC
FY Approval    Company                          Loan    Equity   QUXI    Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
I996           Bhote Koshi                      19.26    2.95      0.00   29.45  19.26    2.95   0.00  29.45
I994           Himal Power                     25.89     0.00     4.50     0.00  25.89   0.00    4.05   0.00
200 1          ILFC Nepal
                     -                           0.00    0.30      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.30    0.00   0.00
I998           Jomsom Resort                     4.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   4.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
                      Total Portfolio:         49.15     3.25      4.50   29.45   49.15   3.25    1.05  29.15



                                                    Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval    Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic


               Total Pending Commitment:            0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00




                                               - 42 -

                                                      Annex 9: Country at a Glance
                                          NEPAL: Community School Support Project

POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                             South       Low-                    -.    _ _       -       ---. .
                                                                 Nepal           Asia    income            Development dlamond'
2001
Population. mid-year (millions)                                    23.6         1,380      2,511        ,                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US%)                                 250           450         430
GNI (Atlas method, US%billions)                                     5.8          616       1,069

Average annual growth, 1995.01
Population (%)                                                      2.4           1.9         1.9
Labor force (%)                                                     2.5           2.4         2.3          GNi                                    Gross
                                                                                                           per                                  primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                      capita                           enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationaipoverty line)                 42
Urban population (% of total population)                            12            28          31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                    59            62          59
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                             74            73          76
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                          47            49                             Access to improved water source
                                                                                                        ~

Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)                 81            87          76
illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                 57            44          37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)              126            101         96                  Nepal           Low-incomegroup
    Male                                                           140            109        103
    Female                                                         112             93         88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                        1981      1991           2000       2001         1  Economic ratios.
GDP (US$billions)                                         2.3       3.9           5.5         5.6
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                            17.6      20.8          24.2        24.3
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                        12.9      11.8          23.3        22.4                             Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                               10.9       9.6          15.0        14.7
Gross national savings/GDP                                                       24.7        25.4                                I

Current account balancelGDP a/                            -2.3     -7.5           2.1         2.8          Domestic      -
interest paymentslGDP                                      0.1      0.7           0.5         0.5          savings
Total debt/GDP                                           12.2      45.7          51.5        48.5
Total debt service/exports                                 3.3     11.1           5.6         4.9                               11

Present value of debffGDP                                                        28.4
Present value of debffexports                                                    87.3                                       Indebtedness

                                          1981-91     1991-01     2000           2001    2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           4.7          4.9      6.2           4.8         4.1                  Nepal           Low-incomegroup

GDP per capita                                2 4          2 4      3 7           2 4         1 8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                        1981       1991          2000       2001          I Growth of Investment  and GDP (Oh)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                              60.9      48.6          40.7
Industry                                                 12.4      17.9          22.1
    Manufacturing                                          4.1      6.9           9.4
Services                                                 26.7      33.5          37.2
                                                                                                                                                      <
Private consumption                                      82.1      81.2          75.9        75.4         /o 1
                                                                                                          1       96     97      98     99    00     01
General government consumption                             7.0      9.2           9.1        10.0
Imports of goods and services                            19.6      23.1          32.4        32.0                              *GDP


                                                      1981-91  1991-01           2000       2001
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                3.8      2.8           4.9         4.3
industry                                                   8.7      6.4           8.7         2.5
    Manufacturing                                          9.2      7.4           7.2         3.6
Services                                                   4.5      6.0           5.8         6.6

Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (inbold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage If data are missing,the diamondwll be incomplete.




                                                                             - 43 -

                                                                                                                         Nepal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                 1981  1991    2000   2001
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                  13.6   13.8     3.4    2.4
Implicit GDP deflator                             7.9    9.1     4.4    3.1
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                          8.9    10.7   11.4              96    97      98     99      00     01
Current budget balance                                  -2.8     1.1    0.2
Overall surplusideficit                                -10.7    -3.5   -4.5                    GDP deflalor  *CPI



TRADE
                                                 1981  1991    2000   2001
 JS$ millions)                                                                   Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

 otal exports (fob)                               135   228     971    942    12 000
 Food                                                            61     65
 Pulses                                                          46     56
 Manufactures                                                   230    256
 otal imports (cif)                              371    715    1,713  1,774
 Food                                                    a7      157     81            95    96   97     98    99     00   01
 Fuel and energy                                         70     273    338
 Capital goods                                           184    297    312     i             3 Exports         imports



BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                                                                            I
                                                 1981  1991    2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP (X)
Exports of goods and services                     294   437    1,433  1,359      4 T
imports of goods and services                    403     854   1,922  1,984
Resource balance                                 -109   -417    -489  -625

Net income                                         10     66      20      9
Net current transfers                              46     60     582    774
Current account balance                           -52   -290     113    158
Financing items (net)                              39    417     101    -82
Changes in net reserves                            13   -127    -214    -76

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                   451     952  1,027
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)                 12.0   31.0    69.3   73.8

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                                                                I
                                                 1981  1991     2000  2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              279  1,776   2,823  2,700
  IBRD                                              0      0       0      0                     F 5 G 5 0
  IDA                                             109    719   1,134  1,127     I

Total debt service                                 12     66     100     89
  IBRD                                              0      0       0      0
  IDA                                               1      8      24     25                                           B 1127

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                  72     52      76     36
  Official creditors                               65    139      97     60
  Private creditors                                 0    -11      -8      0
  Foreign direct investment                         0      2       3      6
                                                                                                                                I
  Portfolio equity                                  0      0       0      0                                    C B

World Bank program
  Commitments                                      32     62      55      0                                      E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                                    33     49      46     47      8 IDA      D Othermultilateral
                                                                                              .                  F Private
  Principal repayments                              0      3      16     17      C IMF
                                                                                   .-                            G Short-term
                                                                                                                    .-
  Net flows                                        33     47      31     30
  Interest payments                                 1      5       9      8
  Net transfers                                    32     42      22     21

Ueveiopmenr tconomics                                                                                                   I  l   i r
Note: Overall Surplus/deficit includes grants.




                                                             - 44 -

                Additional Annex 10: Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
                           NEPAL: Community School Support Project

1.   Legal and Socio-Cultural Framework

Nepal is a country o f diverse cultures, races and religions. There are two major racial groups found in
Nepal:    "Caucasoid" and "Mongoloid". Although there has been cultural and religious cross influence
between these two groups, both cultural and religious systems o f the t\vo racial groups retain varying
degrees o f distinctness. Mongoloid groups (such as the Magar, Tamang, Kiranti, Gurung, etc.) tend to
follow mostly Buddhism and animism, while most o f the Caucasoid groups generally follow Hinduism
and a few follow Jainism and Islam.          Also, a small proportion o f both Caucasoid and Mongoloid
populations have adopted Christianity, and some o f the Kiranti peoples follow their own religion.

As noted above, Hindus have a "vertical" (hierarchical) social structure based on the idea o f ritual purity.
At the apex o f the system are the Brahmins or Bahuns and at the bottom are the Dalits or Untouchables.
Formerly these castes were collectively called the doms or $uno jut (small castes), but currently those
who have come into contact with critiques of the caste system and the caste politics o f India call
themselves Dalits, literally "the oppressed". The term implicitly rejects the validity o f the caste system
and focuses on its inherent lack o f social justice. So all Hindus are members o f some Jut or caste group,
whether l o w or high. In contrast, Mongoloid groups tend to have more horizontal social structures and
are recognized as Indigenous Nationalities or Indigenous People (IP).

Although there i s still a degree o f uncertainty about the precise breakdown o f Nepal's population in terms
o f "high" and "low" caste groups and IPS,Figure 1 below gives at least a rough estimate in terms o f
orders o f magnitude.

Figure 1:Distribution of Population by major CastedEthnic Grouping
                                                                 1   BAHUN,CHHETRI, NEWAR
                                                                                             ~




    40.00                37.85                                    0MIDDLE"KING     HI1
                                                                  EI]JANAJAll        UDU

    35.00



    25.00
             1
    20.00  J

    15.00   ,
    10.00

     5.00 -


              Source: 2001 Census



Considering Nepal's diversity o f cultures, races, languages and religions, the 1990 constitution has
recognized the existence o f "tribes" or indigenous peoples. The constitution has committed to the


                                                     - 45 -

protection, preservation and promotion o f language, religion and culture, as well as to affirmative action
for IPS and vulnerable groups.           The Local Self Governance Act and the Seventh Amendment of
Education Act have both articulated the right o f children to education in their mother tongue up to grade
five to facilitate inclusion o f Ips.

Due to continuous political pressure from the IPS,the government set up the National Committee for
Development o f Nationalities in 1996. The committee recognized the existence o f 61 Indigenous
Nationalities in Nepal. Consequently, for the first time, the Ninth Plan (1997-2002) explicitly made
policies and programs targeting IPS. The Parliament has passed a bill forming a Foundation for
Development o f Indigenous Nationalities, which has recognized 59 IPS in Nepal. In 1999, the Local
Self-Governance Act was amended, giving more power and authority to local government bodies such as
District Development Committees (DDCs), Municipalities and Village Development Committees
(VDCs) - including the authority to protect, preserve and promote IPS'language, religion and culture.
The National Planning Commission (NPC) has also included programs and strategies for IPSin the Tenth
PlaniPRSP (2002-2007).

However, in practice, IPShave had limited ability to obtain access to and effectively use the legal system
to defend their rights. This i s because on the one hand, the machinery of the government i s controlled
primarily by "high caste" groups who have held power for the last 250 years and who do not necessarily
want to change their behaviors, and on the other hand because many IP groups have had poor access to
education, and are not aware o f their legal rights. This situation can be seen from the data and discussion
presented below.

Dominance in the power structure on the basis o f caste hierarchy was first codified in the Muluki Ain o f
1853 and although discrimination o n the basis o f caste and ethnicity has been outlawed in the legal
system, "high caste" dominance and its accompanying ideology, continues in Nepal.                   Political
marginalization o f IPSand Dalits based on social discrimination i s the main reason why they are deprived
of economic, educational, and the overall social well-being. The 1991 Census recorded that more than
two-thirds o f the total educated (with BA and above) are from "high caste" HillHindupopulation (Table
1) - within which Chhetris are relatively less educated compared to Brahman and Newar. Then, another
19 percent o f the educated are also from the various Hindu castes group including those from the Tarai,
but excluding Dalits. The share o f Ips and Dalits is desperatelylow.

Table 1: Graduate and Above, 1991




Source:  Adaptedfrom Gurung(2002), Table 5, p, 6.
Note:    Basedon 1991 census

As with the distribution o f the college-educated population in the above table, so adult literacy and



                                                     -46-

income are also associated positively with one's position on the social ladder (Table 2). The human
development index (HDI), a composite index of education, health(life expectancy at birth), and income,
i s an indicator of overall well-being of the population. The HDI ranking in Nepal shows a similar close
associationwith the caste hierarchy. On the basis of all three indices (adult literacy ratio, income index,
and HDI), Brahmans, Newars, and Chhetris are well above the national average while IPS(excluding
Newars), Dalits, and Muslims are below. Tarai castes have lower literacy and income than the national
average; however, their HDIrank i s higher than that of the IPS.


            Social Group       Adult Literacy Rate    Per Capita     Income Index   HDI       HDI Rank
                                      ( O h )        Income (Rs.)
  Caste Group
    Hill Bahun                        58.0               9,92 I         0.237       0.44I        I1
    Hill Chhetri                      42.0               7,144          0.181       0.345        111
    Tarai Castes                      27.5               6,91 1         0.160       0.313        IV
    Artisan Castes (Dalits)           23.8               4,940          0.1I O      0.239       VI1
  Language Group
    Newar                             54.8              11,953          0.289       0.457         I
HillEthnics (IPS)
    Gurung, Limbu,                    35.2               6,603          0.152       0.299        V
    Magar, Rai, Sherpa
Religious Group
    Muslim                            22. I              6,336          0.145       0.239       VI1
Others                                27.6               7,312          0.170       0.295        VI
  Nepal                               36.7               7,613          0.179       0.325




Table 3 shows the poverty incidence for selected castelethnic groups giving the proportion of each
population group falling below the povertyline. The patternofpoverty incidence is similar to the pattern
for income and HDIwith few exceptions (Table 3), IPSand Dalits have higher proportions and Newar,
Brahmans and Yadav have smaller proportionsbelow the poverty line comparedto the national average.
The exceptions are that, in terms of incidence of poverty, Muslims are relatively better off comparedto
national average, whereas Chhetris are worse off and the Limbus have nearly three fourths of their
communitybelow the poverty line.

  rable 3: Incidence of Poverty, 1996
               Social Group                  Proportionbelow PovertyLine(YO)             Rank
  Caste Group
     Bahun                                                  34                             I1
     Yadav                                                  40                            IV
     Chhetri                                                50                            VI1
     Sarki (Dalit)                                          65                            XI
     Damai (Dalit)                                          67                            XI1
     Kami (Dalit)                                           68                           XI11
  LanguageGroup
    Newar                                                   25                             I
  ieligiousGroup
    Muslim                                                   38                           111
  3thnics (IPS)
     Gurung                                                  45                            V
    Than                                                     48                           VI
     Rai                                                     56                          VI11
    Magar                                                    58                           IX
    Tamang                                                   59                            X
    Limbu                                                    71                          XIV
  Ithers                                                     37



                                                       - 47 -

I t i s clear that IPSand Dalits have been historically marginalized both legally and politically on the basis
o f social and religious ideology which was codified in the Mduki Ain o f 1853. Despite its abolition in
the legal code, this discrimination has continued even after the restoration o f democracy with the
introduction o f the new constitution in 1991. Although overt public forms o f discrimination may be less
visible in interactions of the urban elite, IPSand Dalits continue to face economic, educational and social
disadvantages at all levels o f society - but especially among the poor in rural areas.

Among the IP groups, there are very different degrees o f marginalization -- with some Janajati groups
like the Sherpas, Thakalis, Manangis or Gurungs doing quite well due to income from tourism, trading or
army service.        But the government has recognized 28 of the 59 Janajati groups as particularly
disadvantaged.       These disadvantaged Janajati groups as well as the Dalits are eligible for targeted
scholarships for primary education and also for free secondary education -- though these scholarships are
quite minimal (Rs. 250 - or around $3 per year) and it is quite evident that not all the eligible children are
receiving them.

Inaddition to the classification of some caste and ethnic groups as disadvantaged, HMG/N recognizes
geographic disadvantage and Nepal is categorized into four categories in terms o f remoteness. Eighteen
districts belonging to the most remote category are severely disadvantaged economically. These districts
are eligible for various types o f support from the Government. The Remote Area Development Board
has been established to assist communities living in these areas. Scholarships are also being awarded to
children from the 18 most remote districts.

2.         Baseline Data: The project will provide assistance to children within the project area excluded
from education to mitigate social, cultural and economic barriers. The area for the project i s not defined,
as it will assist the schools taking over management o f schools on a voluntary basis. Each o f the schools
selected for project support will identify the disadvantaged children eligible for project support through
social and enrolment mapping. For each o f the schools a community baseline will be established, which
will include the percentage of out-of-school         children belonging to dalits, marginalized janjatis and
disadvantaged communities, and their dropout and retention rates. These indicators will be monitored
periodically and a final evaluation w i l l be carried out at the end o f the project.

3 .        Land Tenure: The project or the project-supported schools will not acquire any land.

4.         Strategy for Local Participation: The following arrangements aimed at ensuring protection o f
interests o f indigenous peoples are in-built into the project design:
       (a)   Representation o f dalitslindigenous peoples/womeddisadvantagedcommunities in the Central
       Steering Committee o f the project.
       (b)    Representation o f dalitshdigenous peopleslwomeddisadvantagedcommunities in the Project
       Advisory Committee and Project Monitoring Committee.
       (c)    Organization o f dalitslindigenous peopleslwomeddisadvantagedcommunities into Community
       Based Organization. The Terms o f Reference for the NGOs to be hired under the project specify the
       NGO should assist women, Dalits and IPS in the community to organize so that they can fully
       participate in the development o f the "social contract" and can collectively influence the decisions o f
       the SMC and monitor the SMC and the school interms of responsiveness to their children's needs.
       (d)    The Government has been providing some scholarships to such households to mitigate the
       economic bamers. It i s also supposed to provide scholarships to mitigate social and cultural barriers,


                                                       - 48 -

    but as noted above it is not clear how the scholarships are allocated and it is also evident that they are
    too small to have not had the desired impact even when the Dalit or disadvantaged Janajati child
    receives them. The low amount o f the scholarships as well as the delayed release o f scholarships and
    poor targeting also have made the scholarships ineffective. The project will rely heavily on social
    mobilization o f indigenous peoples (IPS). The social mobilization will lead to a social contract, which
    i s at the core o f the CSSP design, between the excluded community and the School Management
    Committee (SMC) witnessed by the community benefiting from school, the local government ( V D C
    or municipality) and the District Education Office (DEO).            The social contract i s intended to
    articulate: (i)the community's commitment to ensure inclusion o f all households excluded from
    education; (ii)clear delineation in the roles o f all parties to the contract; and (iii) the specific mutual
    obligations o f these parties to each other. Social mobilization o f various stakeholder groups in the
    community around the articulation and implementation o f the social contract will be key to the
    project approach. It will be particularly critical to involve and empower the three groups who make
    up the bulk o f the out-of-school population: females, dalits and disadvantaged ethnic or janajati
    groups.
    (e)     Another strategy for facilitating inclusion o f IPSwill be involvement o f IP-based NGOs/SOs
    for social mobilization o f IPS.

5.       Technical Identification of Development or Mitigation Activities: The project aims at
mainstreaming the out-of-school children, many o f whom will belong to indigenous peoples, dalits and
disadvantaged. Maximizing project benefits to these groups will be the focus o f the project. Negative
impacts on these groups are not expected.

6.       Institutional Capacity: The Government through the DOE, the implementing agency for the
project, has been providing scholarships and incentives targeted to 28 groups belonging to the
disadvantaged indigenous nationalities (janjatis),     dalits and economically marginalized communities.
Experience has indicated that for effective implementation o f such programs, more field-based staff
would be required. The project envisages employment o f NGOs/SOs for intensive social mobilization in
the project area. Efforts will be made to mobilize dalitiindigenous nationalities-based NGOs/SOs for
social mobilization o f targeted groups with a view to mainstream these groups to education as well as
retain them. The project has allocated reasonable funds for investment and field-based operations.

7.       Implementation Schedule: The consultations were held on May 2, 2003 with the Nepal
Federation o f Nationalities and o n M a y 3, 2003 with the Movement for Liberation o f Oppressed, Dalits
and Ethnic Groups. Similarly, consultations with dalits, disadvantaged and indigenous peoples were held
in Srijana HighSchools and MahendraPrimary Schools inKaski district. Inevery school participating in
the project, following social mapping, extensive social mobilization will be conducted to ensure
inclusion o f dalits, indigenous and disadvantaged communities.

         The project focuses on mainstreaming and retaining IPSin schools. The project does have a time
bound benchmarks for these indicators disaggregated by dalits and indigenous nationalities.              Initially
every school community, including community o f IPS, will be assisted by a NGO/SO for about eight
months. It is expected that by the end o f this period the Community Based Organizations (CBOs) will
mature to carry on activities aimed at achieving the project objectives with intermittent supervision.

8.       Monitoring and Evaluation: The project envisages participation o f janjatis, disadvantaged
communities and dalits in monitoring and evaluation o f the project. The first tier o f monitoring will take
place within the CBOs, to which every single I P household will be tied. The second tier o f monitoring
will take place at the level o f community institutions organized as interest groups such as parents o f



                                                     - 49 -

out-of-school children, and illiterate parents. The third level of monitoring, at the school community
level, will take placethrough the Project Monitoring Community, in which IPSwill be represented.

9.      Cost Estimates and Financing Plan:Around 10% of the project costs will be directly spent on
indigenous peoples, disadvantaged communities and dalits. The figure would be slightly higher when all
indirect support to such groups are accounted for.




                                                  - 50 -

