Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB31
Project Name               NEPAL-Community School Support Project
Region                      South Asia Regional Office
Sector                     General education sector (100%)
Theme                       Education for all (P)
Project                    P082646
Borrower(s)                KINGDOM OF NEPAL
Implementing Agency(ies)   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SPORTS
Ministry of Education and Sports
Address: Keshar Mahal, Kathmandu
Contact Person: Mr. Chuman Singh Basnyat, The Officiating Secretary
Tel: 977-1-4411599    Fax: 977-1-4414887     Email: moes@enet.com.np
Department of Education (DOE)
Address: Sanothimi, Bhaktapur
Contact Person: Mr. Satya Bahadur Shrestha, The Director General
Tel: 977-1-6631075    Fax: 977-1-6631972     Email:
doestat@mos.com.np
Environment Category       C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared          June 27, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date        May 5, 2003
Bank Approval Date         June 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Nepal remains one of the poorest countries in the world with per a capita income of around S250, around
half the children under five are malnourished and progress towards MDG targets remains slow. Growth
in the 1990's has been respectable, averaging 5%, but its impact on poverty has been dampened by high
population growth rate and by being concentrated in the Katmandu valley. Large inequities prevail across
regional, ethnic and gender lines, which seem to have contributed to fueling the insurgency. At the same
time, certain social indicators such as access to education, infant and child mortality, total fertility and
life expectancy have improved significantly over the past decade, indicating that certain interventions
have proved to be successful.
School education comprise - primary education (grades 1-5), lower secondary education (grades 6-8),
secondary education (grades 9-10) and higher secondary education (grades 11-12). The net enrolment
ratio at primary education was 80% in 2000. The gross enrolment ratios of lower secondary and
secondary education on the same year were 58% and 37%, respectively. The primary school completion
rate was 54% in 2000, while School Leaving Certificate Examinations completion rate was 31%. The
gender gaps in primary and secondary education were 12% and 18%, respectively.
Difficulties in mainstreaming the children from excluded or disadvantaged households, low pass rates
and poor leaming achievements are the main problems of school education. If the current trend of
improvements continue, it is unlikely that Nepal will be able to meet the targets of the Millenium
Development Goals (MDGs). The problems of school edcuation are mainly associated with poor
accountability of the school system.



2
PID
Prior to nationalization of schools in 1972, Nepal almost exclusively relied on community owned
schools. These schools, established through community initiatives, were funded through student fees and
block grants from the Government. In the quest for improvement of quality of education through assured
funding and technical support, the Government nationalized schools. In spite of the sizeable investment
that the Government has made since then, the extent of improvement in quality and efficiency of school
education did not match the expectations of the Government as well as the public. The large gap between
pass rates in the School Leaving Certificate Examinations of public and private schools, introduced in
mid-eighties, - around 80% for private schools and 15% for public schools - is being perceived as a
glaring example of the failure of the public school system. This has led to the loss of faith in public
schools.
Reflecting the widely shared public perception that nationalization of schools was a mistake, the Seventh
Amendment of the Education Act was passed in 2001, which articulated the policy of devolving school
management responsibilities to communities. In 2002, the Government embarked on the transfer of
management of public schools all the way down to the community level, by offering all communities the
option of taking over public primary schools financed on a block grant basis, subject to meeting some
basic prerequisites. The Government is about to meet the immediate target of transferring 100 out of over
26,000 public schools to community management. The purpose of this LIL is to assist the government to
gain critical experience for up-scaling the transfer of management of public schools to communities.
Transfer of management of public schools to communities is one of the basic strategies of the Tenth
Five-Year Development Plan and the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper aimed at achieving the Education
for All (EFA) and MDG targets. The lessons learned from this will help to achieve the EFA/MDG targets
by raising the efficiency of investments in school education.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to develop a critical knowledge base for successful upscaling of transfer of
management of public schools to communities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has gained substantial experience in school education in Nepal by being involved in this sector
since 1982. The Bank is particularly suited for projects involving innovations, as it has a wealth of
experience in implementation as well as analytical works from around the world. Poor governance of the
public school system is wide spread. Therefore, testing the potential of community managed schools for
improving accountability of schools is of significant interest to the Bank.



3
PID
4. Description
The project comprises the following components:
(i)    School Grants Component. This component will provide the following inputs: (a) incentive
grants for communities that take over management of public schools from the Govemment; (b) block
grants for community funded upper grades attached to public schools transferred to communities; (c)
performance grants for improvement of access to primary education and improvement of promotion
rates; (d) supplementary grants to schools to cope with enrolment expansion; and (e) other grants for
providing additional support to marginalized communites, and for encouraging for piloting innovative
approaches such as bilingual education, teaching Nepali as a second language, and employment of female
teachers and teachers from disadvantaged communities. The outputs/outcomes from the above inputs will
be: a. mainstreaming the out-of-school children of primary school age into the school system; b.
improvement of access of girls and disadvantaged communities to lower secondary and secondary
education; c. improvement of promotion rates and learning achievement; d. increase in number of
community managed schools; e. holistic development of school - from primary to lower
secondary/secondary level; f. equitable subsidy distribution to communities; and g. ownership of schools
by communities.
(ii)   Scholarship Component. This component will provide booster scholarships to out-of-school
children in the first year and maintenance scholarships in later years of primary education. The
maintenance scholarships will be provided to all children from poor households. The scholarships will be
a demonstration of the Govemment commitment to mainstream all out-of school children to the schools
and to retain them. This inclusive approach of the project is likely to transform the social fabric of
communities and make the school a focal point for inclusion.
(iii)  Capacity Building. This component will provide the following inputs: (a) assistance to the
communities by NGOs to organize themselves to manage schools; (b) training for teachers and SMC
members; (c) orientation for civil servants, local government officials and social workers; and (d)
communication of government policy on transfer of schools to community management. The expected
outputs/outcomes from this component are: a. improved capability of the communities to manage
schools; and b. evolution of roles of local government, teachers, district education offices and other
government agencies in relation to community managed schools.
(iv)   Monitoring and Evaluation. This component will assist in the development of a monitoring and
evaluation system for the project in coordination with the existing monitoring and evaluation system
within the Ministry of Education and Sports, and strengthen the capacity of officials and communities
responsible for monitoring and evaluation. The output/outcome of this component will be a
well-established and smoothly operating monitoring and evaluation system that can support periodic
improvement in the experimental design of the LIL. Special emphasis will be given to community-level
monitoring and evaluation, as the LIL relies heavily on communities for achieving the project outcomes.
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($0.18)
IDA ($5.00)
Total Project Cost: $5.18
mm



4
PID
6. Implementation
The responsible agency for the project will be the Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES). The project
will be implemented through existing government administration - the Department of Education (DOE),
under the MOES. The DOE will designate one of its Divisions as the Project Focal Point (PFP) and the
head of the PFP will be designated as the Coordinator. The PFP will be guided by a Central Steering
Committee (CSC) chaired by the Joint-Secretary, Planning Division, MOES, and it will include: Director
General of the DOE; one representative each from NPC, MOF and MOLD; one representative each of
dalits and ethnic monorities; one representive from among prominent educationists or social workers; and
the Coordinator as the Member-Secretary. The main functions of the committee will be approving the
schools for funding, monitoring progress and providing policy advice. The District Education Office
(DEO) will implement the project at the district level. A District Focal Person will be designated for each
district. The project at the district level will be guided by a District Steering Committee (DSC). The
main functions of the DSC will be screening schools applying for participation in the project, reviewing
progress and providing feedback on the program. The bulk of the activities of the project will be
implemented by the communities - SMCs/schools, and Community Based Organizations
supported by NGOs. The DEO will monitor and supervise the communities.
7. Sustainability
To ensure replicability of the LIL experience, the proposed incentive grants, together with
performance grants, described above, will be kept within the range of support all schools are
receiving from the development budget. This LIL essentially attempts to empower schools by
disbursing the funds being spent for schools by the Government agencies to the schools directly,
which will allow schools to make their own choices. The use of the existing government system
for implementation of the project is also likely to contribute to the sustainability of the
experience gained from the project. Similarly, involvement of stakeholders in the management of
the project will also improve sustainability of the achievements.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Community based approaches were first piloted in Nepal by the Bank in the forestry sector. Community
forestry in Nepal has helped to regenerate the degrading forest in hills, which were heading towards
desertification. Community forestry stands as one of the best examples of success of community based
approaches. Subsequent operation in rural water supply and sewerage sector also has proved to be
equally successful. Recently the Power Development Project involving community-based
micro-hydropower has been negotiated. Bank experience in El Salvador and Guatemala indicates that
community-based approaches in education sector may be successful.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
The project supports the government's policy to empower communities to manage public schools.
Communities would be provided with block grants, which they may use according to their own priorities.
Out of about 1,500 schools to be supported through this project, 250 schools may receive, on an average,
grants of about Rs. 240,000 (US$3,000), whereas the rest may receive about Rs. 100,000 (US$1,200).
One of the main purposes of the project is to mainstream all out-of-school children within the school
service area within the project period. Therefore, indigenous people, vulnerable people, disadvantaged
communities and dalits, if any, in the project areas will benefit from the project. The project aims at
overcoming the economic barrier to access for out-of-school children by providing scholarships, and
social and cultural barriers through social contracts involving various stakeholders. The project will
assist the indigenous communities, dalits and disadvantaged communities to organize so that their



5
PIlD
initerests are protected. An Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) has been prepared for the
project. The IPDP was translated into Nepali and disclosed to stakeholders. No negative impacts are
expected from the project on these groups.
No new schools will be built under the project and no new land will be purchased or aquired for schools.
All resource transfers to schools will be on a block grant basis. Therefore, the communities will spend
money guided by their own priorities. Though the main focus of the project is improved access to
education and subsequently higher completion rates, part of the grants may also be used for rehabilitation
of existing facilities and minor construction within the boundaries of existing schools. Given the level of
funding, only minor construction works may be carried out by communities. The cumulative impact on
the environment of such activities is likely to be small as the number of schools covered is small.
Therefore, negative environmental impacts are not expected from the LIL.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Raj endra Dhoj Joshi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 977 1 4226792 ext. 124
Fax: 977 1 4225112
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.






