                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank


                                                         Report No: ICR00001025




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IDA-038080 TF-055146)

                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION
                            (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                    FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF NEPAL

                                        FOR A

                      COMMUNITY SCHOOL SUPPORT PROJECT




                                    March 23, 2009




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2008)


                                 Currency Unit
                           NPR1.00 = US$0.013657
                            US$ 1.00 = NPRs 73.22


                                FISCAL YEAR
                                July 16 ­ July 15




                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BNPP   Bank Netherlands Partnership Program
BPEP   Basic and Primary Education Program
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CMS    Community-Managed School
CSNN   Community School National Network
CSSP   Community School Support Project
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
DEO    District Education Office
DOE    Department of Education
EMIS   Education Management Information System
EFA    Education for All
EPDF   Education Program Development Fund
FY     Fiscal Year
GON    Government of Nepal
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
ISN    Interim Strategy Note
LIL    Learning and Innovation Loan
MDGs   Millennium Development Goals
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE    Ministry of Education
NGO    Non Government Organization
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PHRD   Policy and Human Resources Development
PPF    Project Preparation Facility

SMC    School Management Committee
SO     Support Organization
SSRP   School Sector Reform Program
SWAp   Sector-wide Approach
TA     Technical Assistance
TF     Trust Fund
WB     World Bank




                         Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                       Country Director: Susan G. Goldmark
                        Sector Manager: Amit Dar
                   Project Team Leader: Rajendra Dhoj Joshi
                      ICR Team Leader: Rajendra Dhoj Joshi

                                                     NEPAL
                             Community School Support Project




                                                 CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................... 1
 2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 4
 3.   Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................ 8
 4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................... 16
 5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................. 16
 6.   Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 19
 7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....... 19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 21
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 23
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 27
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR......................................................................... 30
 Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 33
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Community School
Country:                Nepal                 Project Name:
                                                                    Support Project
Project ID:             P082646               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-38080,TF-55146
ICR Date:               03/30/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    FEDERAL
                                                                    DEMOCRATIC
Lending Instrument:     LIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
                                                                    NEPAL
Original Total
                        XDR 3.6M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 3.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Department of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/27/2003    Effectiveness:                          08/28/2003
Appraisal:             05/12/2003    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/30/2003    Mid-term Review:     05/24/2005         05/30/2005
                                     Closing:             09/30/2006         09/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                       100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                              Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Isabel M. Guerrero                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Susan G. Goldmark                 Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:           Amit Dar                          Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leader:      Rajendra Dhoj Joshi               Rajendra Dhoj Joshi
ICR Team Leader:          Rajendra Dhoj Joshi
ICR Primary Author:       Maria E. Anderson



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To test whether community management of schools can better contribute to enhance a)
participation rates, (b) quality and efficiency; and (c) accountability of schools

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                              ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval        Target        Completion or
                                              documents)        Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Share of out-of-school children of primary age
Value
quantitative or 41%                        20.5%                            11.1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/15/2004                   09/30/2008                       09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The achievement significantly exceeded the target. These figures reflect children

achievement)    out-of-school during the time of survey.

Indicator 2 :   Share of out-of-school girls of primary age
Value
quantitative or 42%                        23.1%                            11.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/15/2004                   09/30/2008                       09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Same as for indicator 1.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Share of out-of-school janajati of primary age
Value
quantitative or 44%                        26.4%                            11.3%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/15/2004                   09/30/2008                       09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Same as for indicator 1.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Share of out-of-school dalits of primary age
Value
quantitative or 50%                        30%                              15.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/15/2004                   09/30/2008                       09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Same as for indicator 1.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                approval        Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of schools transferred to community management
Value
(quantitative   86                         1,500                            2,035



                                                iii

or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/28/2003                  09/30/2008                         09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       The actual value reflects schools financed under the project. The total number of

achievement)   schools transferred to community management has reached 7,945.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/01/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.20
  2     03/18/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.59
  3     09/17/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.99
  4     03/16/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.68
  5     09/13/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.87
  6     03/13/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      3.12
  7     09/08/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      3.23
  8     03/23/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      4.33
  9     09/21/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      4.73
  10    03/21/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      5.36
  11    09/22/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      5.36



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                              iv

1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.        At the time of project preparation, the Government of Nepal (GON) had initiated a series
of reforms in the public sector to make it more responsive to the needs of the poor. In this
context, the Government sought to address the issues of the education sector (limited access to
schooling, particularly of the poor and disadvantaged groups, poor quality of education, poor
governance, lack of accountability, and system inefficiency) by devolving management of
schools1 receiving public financing to communities. In 2001, the Seventh Amendment to the
Education Act was passed which articulated the policy of devolving school management
responsibilities to communities.
2.        The Community School Support Project (CSSP) was designed as a Learning and
Innovation project to support the GON in the implementation of its policy of transferring
publicly financed schools to community management and provide the required technical and
financial support. Devolution of responsibility for management of schools with the intention of
raising overall accountability of publicly financed schools was the primary means in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS, 1998, Report No. 18578-NEP) of reaching the objective of improving
the poor quality of service delivery.

1.1       Context at Appraisal

3.        Nepal had made considerable progress in reducing poverty and improving human
development outcomes. In spite of the conflict and the unstable political situation, Nepal saw
large improvements in its human development indicators. Primary net enrollment rates increased
from 69 percent in 1998 to 80 percent in 2003. During the same period, primary completion rates
rose from 42 percent to about 60 percent. Despite these successes, the primary education system
of Nepal continued to be plagued by problems of access, governance, and quality. More than 25
percent of children remained out of school. Girls, disadvantaged castes and indigenous minority
groups were disproportionately represented among the large numbers of out-of-school children.




1 Schools eligible for public financing are called community schools since 2001. All community schools are managed by SMCs
accountable to parents. Community schools transferred to community management have more authorities than those not
transferred to community management. These authorities are power to hire permanent teachers, appoint head teachers and send
back non-performing government teachers to the District Education Office (DEO).



                                                                1

4.       Prior to the take over of management of community schools by the government from
communities in 1971, Nepal exclusively relied on community schools. These schools,
established through community initiatives, were funded through tuition fees and block grants
from the GON. In the quest for improvement of the quality of education through assured
funding and technical support, the GON nationalized schools. In spite of the sizeable investment
that the GON made since then, the extent of improvement in quality and efficiency of school
education did not meet the Government's or the public's expectations. In 2002, the GON
embarked on a pragmatic policy reform to devolve school management responsibilities to the
community level by offering assurances that it would provide technical and financial support.
Since then, decentralization has been a key strategy of the GON in improving the equity,
efficiency, and quality of public service delivery. The CSSP was initiated to help the
Government with the start up of this decentralization initiative in education.

5.       IDA and four other donors supported the basic and primary education sub-sector adopting
a basket financing approach through the Basic and Primary Education Program (BPEP) II whose
first phase ended in July 2004. At the time of CSSP appraisal, the GON and donors were
engaged in the preparation of the following five-year phase of the BPEP, which was later named
Education for All (EFA) Program. At the same time, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
aimed at transferring management of 8,000 schools to communities by mid-2007. In response to
this government goal, the EFA had to be able to support community-managed schools (CMSs).
The CSSP project aimed at developing the critical knowledge base for the EFA so that it would
be well equipped to cater to the needs of community schools.

1.2      Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

6.       The project development objective presented in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
was "to test whether community management of schools could better contribute to enhance (a)
participation rates, (b) quality and efficiency; and (c) accountability of schools. The key outcome
indicators for measuring success were: (a) share of out-of-school children of primary age; (b)
share of out-of-school girls of primary age; (c) share of out-of-school janajati (indigenous
groups) of primary age; and (d) share of out-of-school dalits (lowest in the Hindu hierarchy of
castes) of primary age".

7.       The project development objective defined in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA)2 was "to develop a knowledge base needed for successful transfer of responsibility for
management of government-funded community schools to local communities". An intermediate
results indicator in the project results framework was number of schools transferred.

1.3      Revised Project Development Objective

8.       Not applicable.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries




2It was the follow-on development objective in Annex 1 of PAD.



                                                            2

11.     The project's main beneficiaries are 5-15 year old children that enroll in CMSs at the
primary, lower secondary and secondary levels. Other direct beneficiaries are teachers, and head
teachers. School Management Committee (SMC) members, parents and the school community
who have a significant role in managing and supporting the CMSs are indirect beneficiaries, as
well as contributors to the project.

1.5     Original Components

12.     School Grants Component. This component was designed to provide: (a) incentive
grants for communities that take over management of government-funded schools; (b) block
grants tied to performance for lower secondary and secondary schools funded entirely by the
communities of government-funded primary schools transferred to community management; (c)
performance grants for improvement of access to primary education and improvement of
promotion rates; (d) supplementary grants to community schools for expanding enrollment to
cover additional costs; and (e) other grants for providing additional support to marginalized
communities, and for encouraging the piloting of innovative approaches. The aim of this
component was to: (a) encourage schools to participate in the experiment; (b) increase access to
schools; and (c) improve efficiency.


13.     Scholarship Component. It was designed to provide booster scholarships to out-of-school
children from poor households in the first year and maintenance scholarships in subsequent years.
The maintenance scholarships were to be provided to all children from poor households. Its
main purpose was to support enrolment and retention in school of disadvantaged children.

14.     Capacity Building Component. This component was designed to: (a) provide assistance
to the communities, through Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO)/Support Organizations
(SO), to organize themselves to manage schools; (b) provide training for teachers in instructional
planning and delivery, and for SMC members in school management and improving public
relations with the community; (c) orientation for civil servants, local government officials and
social workers; and (d) communication of government policy of transfer of schools to
community management. The component's objective was to contribute to the improvement of
accountability in schools and improvement in the quality of education.

15.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Component. It was designed to assist in the
development of a monitoring and evaluation system for the project in coordination with the
M&E system within the Ministry of Education (MOE), and strengthen the capacity of officials
and communities responsible for monitoring and evaluation. Other output/outcome of the
component was expected to be a well-established and smoothly operating M&E system that
could support periodic improvements in the experimental design of the Learning and Innovation
Loan (LIL). Special emphasis was expected to be given to community level monitoring and
evaluation as the project relied heavily on communities for achieving the project outcomes.

1.6     Revised Components

16.     Not applicable.




                                                  3

1.7     Other Significant Changes

17.     The Research Support Group envisaged during project design was not created, and the
various committees at central and district levels (Central and District Steering Committees,
Project Advisory and Project Monitoring Committees) were not created, and if created were not
operational. As a result, the proposed technical support for project and school management as
well as instructional improvement did not materialize for the majority of the schools and may
have hindered progress in instructional transformation in CMSs.

18.     Although the project was designed for implementation using the existing government set
up, the design included several committees that were not part of the normal government
bureaucracy. It was concluded that ad-hoc structures would not contribute to the sustainability
of reforms and the functions specified for project specific committees were taken over by the
existing institutional structure. In retrospect, the lack of a cascade system of steering and
monitoring committees in the CSSP implementation arrangement appears to have served as an
incentive for the evolution of strong SMCs and for the development of a functional partnership
among community members to support school improvement activities. The emergence of the
Community School National Network (CSNN) is an example of how a group of SMC
chairpersons responded to the task of advocating community management of school at the local,
district, and national levels.

19.     GON's Foreign Aid Policy discourages use of loans for technical assistance (TA). As a
consequence, the funds included in the project for TA to be used in the capacity building of
teachers, communities, SMCs and MOE staff could not be fully utilized for the intended purpose
(only 14% of TA funds were utilized during the life of the project). This gap was partially
covered by capacity building programs funded by (Policy and Human Resources Development)
PHRD grants (TF-055146). Confusion over the contents of the program of education authorities
at the district level, as well as communities and teachers could have been avoided, had advocacy
and technical support been provided at the outset. This has probably limited or at least slowed
down implementation of the project.

20.     Similarly, only 19% of project resources available for monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
were utilized during project implementation. There appears to have been reluctance on the part
of GON to utilize project funds in contracting of consultants (local or foreign) to carry out
monitoring and evaluation activities. Several of the evaluation studies were carried out with
World Bank (WB) or trust funds financing (see Section 5).

21.     The project closing date was extended by two years. The project started during the peak
of the insurgency. The project concept was challenged by the rebels. Therefore, some activities
could not be completed within the original closing date. Following the Peace Agreement in
November 2006, the environment became more conducive for implementation of the project, and
most of the remaining project activities were completed in the fourth year. The primary purpose
of the second extension of the closing date was to insure that the stewardship for promoting
community management of schools was transferred from CSSP to EFA.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes



                                                   4

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.     The project design incorporated lessons learned from previous education projects in
Nepal, from community-managed programs/projects in the country, and community-managed
school programs in Bangladesh and Central America.

23.      The risks and mitigation measures were accurately identified during project preparation,
except for the political risks. During the project implementation period there were intense
political debate about the perils and promise of community management of schools. At times,
the debate turned into physical harassment of schools opting for community management. In
some cases, the operation of CMSs was disturbed due to the lock up of office premises.

2.2     Implementation

24.     CSSP implementation was hampered from the project outset until end 2006 because of
the insurgency and was affected throughout the project implementation period by opposition to
the reform by teachers' unions. During 2005/06, the transfer of schools to community
management almost came to a stand still--less than 150 schools were transferred. In spite of this,
with GON's political support, community management of schools continued. Fortunately, at the
end of 2006 a Peace Agreement was signed between the Seven Party Alliance Government, and
the Maoists ending the ten year old insurgency. Project activities and transfer of schools to
communities restarted with vigor and the number of schools transferred in FY2007/08 was
higher than the total number of schools transferred over the previous five-year period. The
number of schools transferred has reached 8,002 by March 13, 2009.CMSs spread to all regions
and districts, and all levels of schooling. The take up rate of community management is higher at
the primary level compared to that at lower secondary and secondary levels. The share of schools
to which community management has been introduced in at least one level has reached around
24% of the total number of schools in the country. In the course of implementation, a number of
bottlenecks were identified: (a) at the outset there was a lack of clarity in the legal framework
for the transfer of authority to school management, namely provision of permanent recruitment
of teachers by schools. Although the law was amended, the GON was reluctant to implement the
reform fearing a backlash from teachers' unions. Instead, salary grants to schools for the
recruitment of community teachers were introduced. Hiring of new teachers by GON was
stopped and the number of permanent positions frozen. By the end of FY 2006/07, the number of
community teachers in all community schools crossed 60,000; (b) the lack of awareness of the
program by communities in poor and marginalized areas. Although there were some social
mobilization efforts since the beginning of project implementation, these accelerated in 2006,
2007 and 2008 when a PHRD grant became available; (c) the DOE inability to put in place an
adequate monitoring and evaluation system that could inform about the reach of the program and
its impact on quality and learning outcomes; and (d) an insufficient understanding of the factors
that would build the capacity of communities to take on and manage schools.

25.     Finally, the GON decided not to procure equipment included in the project with the
argument that existing vehicles and equipment could be used. This decision did not hamper
project implementation.




                                                   5

2.3       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.       Design. M&E design relied heavily on community level monitoring, as community
initiative was instrumental in achieving project objectives. Schools, apart from collecting data
for higher level monitoring, were to collect data for community monitoring. While data for
higher level monitoring were prescribed, the data for community monitoring were to be decided
by schools themselves based on the guidance provided by districts and the Department of
Education (DOE).

27.       Project monitoring at the DOE level included indicators related to access and efficiency,
but not those related to quality and accountability. Project schools were also to be monitored
within the existing framework through the Education Information Management System (EMIS)3,
known as flash reports, in quantitative aspects and through resource persons in qualitative
aspects. The project envisaged support to project monitoring through consultants by establishing
Research Support Groups.

28.       Indicators, related to access and efficiency, were adequate but it was not clear how
quality was to be assessed. Indicators related to management of schools were adequate to
measure progress. The design envisaged the establishment, through a participatory process, of a
baseline in each participating school and periodic monitoring of progress by the community.

29.       Implementation. Project monitoring, as planned, covered intensive support schools4 only.
All intensive schools were given training on community monitoring as a part of the overall
capacity building. The training included visioning and planning exercises, the outcomes of
which were formulation of a vision, goals, activities and strategies for achieving the goals,
prioritization of activities, school improvement plan, assignment of responsibilities and
monitoring. The most significant tool for monitoring was social audit conducted by a committee
comprising of the chairperson of the Parent Teacher Association and two other parents. The
social audit report was to be presented to and endorsed by the parent's assembly. In addition,
many schools formed dedicated monitoring committees. Monitoring of school activities,
including classroom visits by parents, was common in most schools.

30.       Data on access, efficiency (repetition and dropout rates), accountability (social audit and
disclosure) were collected from schools through applications for performance grants. Because of
the incentives for schools to inflate achievements built into the project, DOE decided to
supplement school-based monitoring by independent monitoring through the CSNN. This
monitoring covered 30 schools. There have been three rounds of household surveys of the 30
intensive support schools; the last round was conducted in August 2008. The surveys show that
the percentage of out of school children of primary school age has been reduced significantly,
with the largest reduction observed in girls of primary school age (from 42.2% in 2004 to less
than 10.6% in 2008). It is also encouraging to note that the participation rates of dalit and
Janjati children have increased considerably in the sample schools service areas. While there has



3Flash reports collect school data at the beginning and end of the academic year.
4Schools selected for project support through performance and matching grants were called intensive support schools to
distinguish them from schools that received only incentive grants. The latter were called incentive schools.



                                                                 6

also been an important reduction in out-of-school children of age six5, there is still 13.6% of
these children who are not in school in the sample service areas. (Section 3.2 and Annex 5).

31.      While staff from DOE spent about four months a year supervising the project and were
accompanied by district staff, their numbers were insufficient to provide adequate training to
CMSs in the development of a baseline and monitoring of field activities. Monitoring of quality
was conducted mainly through visits to schools by DOE staff, district focal persons, resource
persons, supervisors and Bank staff. Except for the Intensive Support Schools, most CMSs
depended on the willingness of District Education Officers, Resource Persons and supervisors to
provide some technical support and to monitor them. Furthermore, their access, and that of IDA
staff, to the interior of the country was limited for a period of time when the armed conflict
reached a large area of the country. The creative solution agreed between the GON and IDA was
to contract the CSNN to assist in the monitoring of project activities at school level.

32.      The EMIS flash reports are issued periodically and they contain valuable data on system
efficiency indicators, but these reports do not yet produce aggregate data on CMSs which would
be useful to track progress of all these schools.

33.      In general, the monitoring of CSSP activities at district level as planned during the
project design did not fully materialize. The most serious shortcoming of the M&E component
is the non existence of a Research Support Group that was designed to provide technical support,
including monitoring, to the project.

34.      Utilization. Monitoring data on access and promotion rates were used for determination
of performance grants. Feedback from monitoring visits was used for strengthening policy
dialogue and changing the legal framework. The most noteworthy changes in the legal
framework include the Eighth Amendment to the Education Act, and corresponding changes to
the Education Regulations that provided a detailed framework for operation of CMSs. Similarly,
the feedback from monitoring visits was used to disseminate success stories of CMSs.

35.      Impact Evaluation. Community management of schools attracted great interest. Heated
debates started soon after initiation of this reform; therefore, the need for an independent
evaluation was evident since the beginning of the project. The baseline for eighty schools--40
intensively supported community managed (treatment group), 20 community-managed that
received only incentive grants and 20 community schools not transferred to community
management (control group)--was completed in 2003/04 by New Era (financed through the WB
budget). After completion of this baseline, the need for a lager sample as well as a revised
impact evaluation framework was evident. The pilot baseline survey and advocacy activities
under the new framework were financed through a BNPP trust fund (TF-055023). A follow on
study of eighty schools and a baseline survey for an expanded sample of schools, financed by an
Education Program Development Fund (EPDF) trust fund (TF-054642), has been completed. A
follow on survey of the expanded sample of schools is planned for 2009. The results of the
impact evaluation are expected in late 2009 or early 2010.




5This is primarily associated with the practice of enrolment of over-aged children.



                                                                 7

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.     During implementation, the GON complied with safeguard policies and fiduciary
responsibilities under the project. Ratings were consistently satisfactory in most categories
except for financial management and monitoring and evaluation. Both received marginally
satisfactory ratings on several occasions during the project implementation. The implementing
agency appears to have taken the necessary corrective action on financial management matters
each time, but other areas were found to be in need of correction during the following
supervision visit. The failure to adequately address monitoring and evaluation issues is mainly
due to the lack of technical capacity of the implementing institution, and its unwillingness to
contract outside technical support to carry out the necessary activities and studies. Proof of this
is that most M&E activities have been carried out with trust funds from different sources, or with
WB funds. On financial management, consistent improvements in the system were not observed.
By the project closing date, it was noted that ledgers were not up-to-date and internal controls
remained weak. During implementation, the submission of Implementation Progress Reports
and Audit Reports was often delayed, although there are no outstanding reports. Many of the
systemic issues observed are being addressed through the Financial Management Improvement
Plan under the Education for All Sector-wide Approach (SWAp).

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

37.     This Learning and Innovation Loan served its purpose. The most important indicator of
the success of this LIL is that it answered the question whether CMSs make a difference to
access, quality, efficiency and accountability, and the answer is yes. A second important
indicator is a significant increase in the number of CMSs due to the demonstration effect of
successful CMSs, which lays a sound foundation for sustainability. A third important indicator is
that most of the activities of the project's components have been mainstreamed into EFA. And a
fourth and very important indicator is the observed participation of communities in school
management as evidenced by frequent meetings of SMCs and the increased participation of
parents in school affairs.

38.     The GON and donors are currently preparing a follow on program to EFA to continue
support to the education sector reform. A draft document has been prepared for consultation and
dissemination among all relevant stakeholders. The follow on program regards community
management as one of its corner stones and will seek to continue support of the successful
activities of the CSSP.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

39.     The project objective, design and implementation continue to have high overall
relevance. Supporting continuation of reform efforts aimed at building a new prosperous and
peaceful Nepal is the core theme of the Bank's 2007 Interim Strategy Note (ISN). Following the
Seventh Amendment of the Education Act in 2001, the education sector has witnessed bold
reforms that have started to reshape the sector by changing the role of government from being a



                                                  8

provider of education services to being a facilitator for ensuring efficient delivery of education
services through communities. These reforms constitute the state's response to the strong public
discontent over the failing public education system, but have endured opposition from teachers'
unions and the political turmoil because of the strong popular appeal. The success being
achieved through these reforms does provide some hope to the population that a "New Nepal"
can be built.

40.     ISN, 2007 mentions protecting community management of schools as its one of the core
thrusts. Community management has remained one of the major programs of the GON through
out the project period. Draft ISN, 2009 also proposes to support deepening of on-going reforms
in the education sector, particularly community management of schools. The proposed GON's
SSR Program (2009-14) regards community management as one of the cornerstones of the
school education system.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

41.     The best indicator of the project's positive outcome was that it answered the question
whether CMSs make a difference to access, quality, efficiency and accountability. A knowledge
base was developed for the successful transfer of responsibility for management of government-
funded community schools to local communities, which helped to scale up community
management of schools well beyond the project target.

42.     CSSP has significantly contributed to improvement in access. The Flash I 2008 statistical
report shows that enrollment in the 17,341 primary schools has increased from 4.0 million to 4.8
million, an increase of 20% between 2004 and 2008. Net enrollment rate has reached 92%, an
important achievement. While the report does not differentiate between CMSs and other schools,
the former which now constitute about 24% of total primary schools actively promote enrollment
of all children of school age in their service area, thus, it is possible that a greater proportion of
increased enrollment is a direct result of CMSs' efforts. The chart below, from a household
survey carried out in the service areas of 30 CMSs (covering 10,000 households) that received
intensive support, includes data from 2004-2008 and is indicative of a significant reduction in
out-of-school children between 5-15 years old in these service areas. It is particularly important
to note the significant reduction in out-of-school girls, dalit and janajati children.




                                                   9

                   Share of out-of-school children in service areas of surveyed schools


             60


             50          50
                        44.0
                    42                      41.7
             40
                       41                 37.0
     %                                    36.036.4
      re,ahS 30
             20                                               18.8              17.7
                                                           14.214.7                                   15.1
                                                                                  13.0
                                                                                                     10.9
             10                                               14.1           12.612.3            10.610.4

             0
                      2004                2005               2006              2007                 2008

               Out of school children of primary age                 Out of school girls of primary age

               Out of school dalit children of primary age           Out of school janajati children of primary age

Household Survey Report, Community School National Network, 2008


43.           The learning environment of the schools is improving--sufficient desks and benches for
all students, textbooks on all subjects, availability of other instructional materials--which should
lead to quality improvement. While it is too soon to have established a track record of quality
improvements as a result of the project's intervention,6 the recently completed assessment of
grade 8 completers beginning their ninth grade education in a representative sample of secondary
schools shows that CMSs students performed better than community schools not transferred to
community management in all subjects (Nepali, English, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies,
and Health and Population). The mean score of CMSs students was higher than that of schools
not transferred to community management by a statistically significant margin of 2-3% in all the
subjects except in Nepali in which the difference was only 1.3%. Migration of students from
private schools to CMSs has been reported in many instances in press. This is another indication
of the fact that quality of education in CMSs is improving.

44.           CSSP has significant success in improving accountability of schools. Social audit of
schools by parents, introduced by the project, has been mainstreamed into EFA. Sixty eight
percent of all community schools7 and ninety two percent8 of CMSs are conducting social audit.




6Evidence from evaluation of school-based management (SBM) programs in the US indicate that it might take at least five years
before a successful SBM program can achieve results in learning outcomes (Borman and others, 2003) quoted in "Impact
Evaluation for School-Based Management Reform", The World Bank, December 2007.
7Source: Flash Report, 2007/08.
8Source: Good governance survey of 30 schools from the Far-Western Region.



                                                               10

Social audit has established itself as a robust mechanism for providing feedback to SMC by the
community. SMCs use this feedback for improving school management.

Causal Relationship between Outputs and Outcomes

45.      Outputs by component listed in Annex 2 are discussed here to assess the causal
relationship between outputs and outcomes. The data sheet summarizes major achievements in
outcome indicators.

46.      School grants component. The major outputs of this component were: (a) incentive grants
for 2,035 schools against the project target of 1,500 schools; (b) performance grants for increased
enrolment and promotion rates to 500 schools against the target of 250 schools; (c) salary grants
for 877 teachers; (d) grants for hiring SOs for 445 schools; (e) incentives for hiring 52
dalit/female teachers; and (f) matching grants for 500 schools.

47.      Incentive grants of Rs.100,000 per school (level) proved instrumental in schools
subscribing to community management. These grants generated tremendous initiative as well as
the sense of responsibility in communities, as they were given full freedom over the use of these
grants. Schools used these funds in numerous ways such as for buying instructional materials,
construction of physical facilities, procurement of computers, paying salaries of teachers, and for
buying rickshaws for income generation. In most cases incentive grants leveraged significant
community resources. These grants have been mainstreamed into EFA. In addition to 2,035
schools transferred to community management under CSSP, 5,216 schools were transferred
under EFA by the project closing date. After the closing date an additional 751 schools have
been transferred.

48.      Until the beginning of CSSP, government salary grants were exclusively meant to pay
salary of government teachers. CSSP introduced salary grants that allowed communities to hire
their own (community) teachers. These grants have made teachers accountable to schools, which
in turn has helped to improve accountability of schools to communities. Salary grants for hiring
community teachers have been mainstreamed into EFA, and will be continued in SSR.

49.      CSSP introduced matching grants to leverage community resources. These grants
significantly contributed to improvement in physical facilities of schools, which in turn has
contributed to improved access and learning environment. On an average every rupee of CSSP
grants generated local resources of about one and a half rupee.9 Matching grants have been
mainstreamed into EFA.

50.      Scholarship component. The major outputs of this component were: (a) 4,914 booster
scholarships of Rs.500 per child per year for the first child of a household joining a school; and
(b) 10,691 maintenance scholarships of Rs.250 per child per year for retaining children from
poor household in schools.




9Source: Gajendra Man Shrestha et al. Community Managed Schools in Nepal, A Trend in School Reform. December 2007.



                                                          11

51.      Booster scholarships were piloted to find out if enhanced scholarship can stimulate
households excluded from education to send their children to schools. Children from excluded
household accounted for around 35% of the increased enrolment in schools. This indicates that
booster scholarships were effective in increasing access by mainstreaming children from
excluded households.

52.      Capacity building component. The major outputs of this component were: (a) school
based training for 249 teachers; (b) training for 177 SO staff; (c) orientation of 1,735 MOE/DOE
staff; (d) orientation of 4,985 politicians, social workers and local stakeholders; (e) peer to peer
experience sharing between 1,200 SMC members and teachers; (f) establishment of CSNN and
its district chapters; and (g) nation wide community school advocacy.

53.      CSSP piloted need-based training for teachers which was administered by schools. The
pilot was designed to address existing training program shortcomings and to encourage CMSs to
procure the needed training from private sources. This experience encouraged schools to later
procure training using their own resources. The results were found to be positive and the
program has been mainstreamed into EFA.

54.      CSSP facilitated the exchange of experiences between CMSs by financing visits by SMC
members and teachers to successful CMSs within the country. Peer to peer experience sharing
between SMC members and teachers contributed to replication of initiatives of successful
schools by other schools, which contributed to improving efficiency of schools. There are many
instances when success of a CMS has motivated all neighboring schools to opt for community
management. The World Bank financed a visit to schools in the State of Uttarakhand in India by
SMC members and teachers of CMSs and, DOE/District Education Officials (DEO) officials.
Similarly, it financed a visit of DOE/DEO officials to Pakistan. These visits substantially
contributed to scaling up of community management as well as improving the performance of
CMSs.

55.      Orientation programs, focus group discussions, radio interactions, documentary films, TV
news clips and articles in newspapers were used for communication on community management
of schools. The WB helped to update the documentary developed with project financing and
translated it into English10. CSNN and the Education Journalists' Group actively supported these
activities. Orientation of government officials, politicians, social workers and community leaders
was instrumental in neutralizing the intense agitation against community management from some
stakeholders.

56.      Monitoring and evaluation component. The major outputs of this component were: (a)
participation in action research by 906 schools; (b) support for thesis work to 10 bachelor's and
master's degree students; (c) household survey of service area of 30 schools; and (d) telecasting
of documentary films on community management of schools; (e) impact evaluation of CMSs.

57.      Support to thesis work for student helped to trigger academic interest in the reform.
Academics were unaware of the potential of this reform, as there was very little literature dealing


10The English version of the documentary was posted in the South Asia Sector Human Development website of the WB.



                                                              12

with this reform in 2003. At the beginning of the reform most academics were skeptical to the
concept of community management. By the end of the project this concept has become one of
the major areas of academic interest. More and more students are engaging in research in this
area.

58.      Given the GON policy of restricting financing of TA from loans, the Japan PHRD Grants
were extremely important, as they supported key activities that IDA could not finance, such as
cross-sectional surveys, advocacy, networking and capacity building. PHRD Grants made
significant contributions in the following areas: (i) capacity building of CSNN, primarily through
establishment of full fledged district chapters in 40 districts; (ii) developing national capacity for
standardized learning assessment tests; (iii) social mobilization activities to communicate the
concept of community management of schools; and (iv) building capacity of schools through
peer to peer networking and creating demand for good governance.

3.3      Efficiency

With little over $5 million total project costs11, CSSP project achieved the following:

          About 2,000 schools, voluntarily, opted for community management.
          Five hundred schools received performance for increased enrolment and promotion
              rates, and about 800 schools matching grants.
          About 450 schools utilized the services of SOs.
          About 900 teacher-years financed to support increased enrolments.
          About 31,000 student-years of scholarships were disbursed to students from
              marginalized population groups and at different levels of schooling.
          About 5,000 school stakeholders/personnel benefitted from courses, training and
              other capacity building programs.

59.      While the full impacts of the project interventions on access, internal efficiency and
quality are yet12 to be documented for CSSP project schools specifically and the community
management initiative generally, preliminary evidence from the beneficiary survey (chart above
in 3.2) and other surveys (funded by trust funds13) indicate that:

          There has been a noteworthy reduction in out-of-school children, even among the
              more disadvantaged population groups.
          About 75% proportion of the community feel they are part of the school ownership.
          Almost 90% CSSP schools are making their income and expenditure statements
              public, reflecting increased accountability.
          More than 80% of schools prepare a yearly school improvement plan, reflecting
              better management.



11Project funding leveraged significant community contribution, but this has not been fully documented.
12A systematic impact evaluation of community managed schools is being carried by the Bank and full results are expected at
end of 2009/early 2010.
13"Monitoring Survey for Schooling Input, Output and Outcome indicators", Full Bright Commission Report commissioned by
Department of Education, 2008.



                                                               13

60.     These are in addition to other evidence from qualitative surveys that point to increased
participation from parents in school affairs, increased ability to generate local resources and
reduced teacher absenteeism.

61.     Moreover, all the positive externalities that this LIL project has had on the reform
programs in the country's education sector (as described in other sections of this report) on the
community empowerment and ownership, and on the network of advocacy (led by CSNN) are
significant.

62.     Given all this, it is not easy to quantify the financial/economic returns or cost-
effectiveness in monetary terms. But the impacts (immediate or downstream) are unambiguously
large, especially considering what such a relatively small investment has been able to achieve in
this short time.

63.     Extension of the closing date by two years did not in any appreciable manner decrease
project efficiency, as the targeted number of schools was transferred to community management
within the original project period. And similarly, targeted number of intensive schools was
supported within the same period.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

64.     This LIL served to support the GON to implement an important reform process in the
education sector. The project development objective has been achieved by establishing that
community management can contribute to increasing access, quality, efficiency and
accountability. The sustainability of the reform has been demonstrated by the fact that the project
target for transfer of schools to communities was surpassed by far, and most of the project
components' activities have been mainstreamed into the EFA.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

        (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

65.     Most CMSs that received intensive support and the booster scholarships have been able
to significantly increase participation of 6-15 year olds. Enrollment of girls has increased
significantly to a level close to parity (97%). Enrollment of dalit and janajati children has also
increased significantly.

66.     In addition, community participation, as well as participation of females and mother's
groups in school day-to-day operations, through meetings with teachers, attendance in
classrooms, and creation of pre-school classes, has seen an important increase.

        (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening




                                                    14

67.     The most important institutional strengthening aspects of the project have occurred at the
school level where SMCs have taken charge of the school, have obtained funds from the com-
munity, local government or local/international NGOs to improve the schools. Rather than
guided by a centrally prescribed scheme, the CMS identified their own priorities and
implemented different activities mobilizing community resources. Most of the improvements
can be seen as new or rehabilitated classrooms; toilets, water tanks and fences, and other needed
infrastructure.

68.     Volunteerism and community initiative played a key role in the adoption of community
management of schools under the CSSP. The number of schools transferred to community
management was determined by local initiative and effort, reflecting a wide range of
commitments and strategic options adopted by these schools. The sense of ownership of the
school by the communities and their participation in schools activities are important institutional
changes that occurred because of the project.

        (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

69.     CSSP was designed to pilot community management in 250 schools to evaluate if this
reform should be scaled up. Driving this reform forward was not the intention of the project, but
it became a vehicle for this reform process in practice. Retrospectively, it seems that without
CSSP this reform may not have succeeded. Transfer of about 8,000 schools to community
management and mainstreaming most of the initiatives piloted by CSSP into EFA was also not
expected. The most important unintended impact of this project was that it helped to build the
GON's confidence to undertake bolder reforms. Notable reforms that CSSP was instrumental in
triggering were introduction of salary grants, allowing schools to recruit community teachers,
and per capita financing for salaries.

70.     The formation of the CSNN has had a very positive effect on the implementation of the
reforms. Its most important contribution has been the lobbying function to ensure continuation
of the reforms. The network also carried out supervision of CMSs at a time when the armed
conflict prevented DOE staff or IDA staff from visiting the schools.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

71.     The beneficiary surveys showed significant decreases in out of school children,
particularly girls, as well and dalit and janajati children in the service areas of 30 CMSs.

72.     The results of the qualitative evaluation carried out in 2007 through focus group
discussions with stakeholders and school surveys indicate that the transfer of school management
to the communities has triggered a process of change and transformation in CMSs mainly in the
areas of school management, physical and instructional improvement, and partnership building.

73.     The social mobilization activity for purposes of program advocacy also conducted
workshops with stakeholders in many districts and schools. The first one carried out in 2006
covered 40 schools in six districts, the second one carried out in 2007 covered 155 schools in 16
districts, and the last one carried out in early 2008 covered 40 resource centers in 40 districts.
The comments made by stakeholder/participants are similar to those of the qualitative evaluation.


                                                    15

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low

74.     The project has strong government and political support that is likely to continue, as well
as strong stakeholder support. In addition, the GON together with IDA and other partners are
preparing SSRP- a follow on operation to EFA - that is expected to continue to support this
important education reform effort.

75.     Some teacher association leaders and politicians may continue to discredit CMSs, but the
numbers of supporters appear to be growing larger as communities realize the advantages of
managing their own schools.

76.     The main purpose of CSSP was to help the government to implement the policy of
community management of schools. While CSSP transferred 2,035 schools to community
management, EFA has transferred 5,967 schools to community management. Most of the
initiatives started by CSSP were mainstreamed into EFA. This indicates that the risks to
development outcomes are low.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

        (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

77.     The timing of WB intervention was optimal to support the GON initiate a substantial
education reform. The project preparation process was brief ­ about three months from the
project concept to the Board approval - and sought to respond quickly to GON's priorities in
education. The project's design provided the details necessary to test an innovative approach to
devolving management of schools to communities.

78.     During the preparation, significant opposition to the implementation of the project by
teachers' unions was not foreseen, as the project supported only a small pilot. This assumption
turned out to be incorrect. Similarly, the possible impact of the conflict on project
implementation was some what underestimated.

79.     During implementation of the project, DOE had not been using credit funds for TA, as it
had significant amount of grants for TA from bilateral donors for other projects. This resulted in
reluctance on the part of DOE to use IDA credit for TA. The team did not foresee the possible
difficulty in use of projects funds for TA.

80.     Overall, the design of this LIL was as good, as it could be, considering that it was
supporting an untested, major reform process in the education sector.




                                                  16

        (b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

81.     In addition to periodic visits by a team of specialists, most of them were available in-
country to provide timely support and response in dealing with issues related to project
implementation. The supervision team could have benefited from the participation of an M&E
expert in the initial stages of project implementation.

82.     The GON received on-the-job training for various project activities from WB staff/
consultants such as NGO procurement, training, and management, analysis of performance-
based grant requests, and project financial management that made a difference to project
implementation and achievement of results.

        (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

83.     IDA had continuity of team leadership starting at the preparation stage and throughout
project implementation. Also, several of the team members participated in all the supervision
visits. In this case, the presence of the team leader and team members in the country during most
of the project implementation period served to support the GON in addressing project issues as
soon as they appeared. The team leader was also very effective in garnering political support for
the program, as well as in obtaining additional resources from trust funds to carry out much
needed studies and evaluations. Support for the project from regional higher level management
is also evident throughout the project implementation period.

84.     The Bank's ability to build effective linkages across country programs also helped in
implementation of CSSP. For example, transfer of schools to community management and
introduction of salary grants for primary schools were among the triggers for PRSC in FY04.

5.2 Borrower Performance

        (a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

85.     The government in this case includes MOE, Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of
Ministers. There was a strong government ownership and commitment to achieving development
objectives. Transfer of schools to community management, which was the reform CSSP was
designed to support, was passed by the Parliament through a rare political consensus. Seven
governments were involved in implementation of this project. All of them remained committed
to this radical reform in spite of the strong opposition they had to face from teachers' unions.
Community management of schools was one of the key thrusts of PRSP and one of the triggers
of PRSC.




                                                   17

86.     The GON made a number of changes to the legal framework to expedite implementation
of the reform. Notable among them were addition of special provisions for operation of CMSs in
the Education Act and Education Regulations.

87.     Ministers, Secretaries and political parties were actively engaged in public dialogue on
relation to community management of schools. Without this engagement implementation of this
project during the insurgency period would have been extremely difficult.

88.     The government commitment to the project is also demonstrated by its agreement to
provide generous incentive grants for promoting reforms through the project and later through
EFA. It also provided adequate matching funds for the project. Another indication of the
government commitment to the project development objectives is mainstreaming of initiatives
piloted by CSSP into EFA.

        (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

89.     The implementation agency being assessed here is the DOE. DOE implemented the
project through the regular bureaucratic structure assigning the coordination role to the Primary
Education Section ­ a focal point for the project. DOE through out the project implementation
period showed strong commitment to the project development objectives. Senior management of
DOE was extensively involved in the public dialogue on community management and made
frequent visit to CMSs. In addition, it provided additional incentives to CMSs. These were
according higher priority to CMSs while allocating grants for new classrooms and salary grants.

90.     Project implementation suffered from some delays because responsibility for
implementation was under the Department of Education (DOE) and not in a project management
unit. Always an issue in this case is that Department staff has to deal with competing priorities
from the various programs that they have to manage. Nevertheless, sufficient priority was given
to the project to ensure its effective implementation.

91.     Despite the civil service practice of rotation of staff every two years, two key staff were
retained in the focal point through out the project period. This was instrumental in ensuring a
high degree of coherence to project activities. The commitment of the focal point staff to the
project development objectives was exemplary. The job was fulfilling to them as they were able
to see positive changes in schools and school communities acknowledged those changes. The
project was able to groom a contingent of strong champions of community management at the
DOE level.

92.     DOE extensively used media for communication on community management of schools.
Success of community management has been widely covered by national dailies, FM radios and
TV. During the height of insurgency journalists from Education Journalists' Group were able to
launch communication campaign in areas controlled by Maoists.




                                                    18

93.     There was reluctance on the part of GON to utilize project funds in contracting of
consultants (local or foreign) to carry out monitoring and evaluation activities. Due to this some
of the planned studies were not carried out. This gap was largely addressed by mobilizing
resources from trust funds.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

94.     The Government initiated implementation of a significant reform in the education sector
in a difficult political environment and managed to carry it through in spite of protests by
powerful teacher unions, some politicians, some bureaucrats, and even when the armed
insurgency forced closing of private schools and CMSs in some cases.

6.      Lessons Learned

         Strong political support is required to carry out public sector reforms of any kind.
         When the general public has lost confidence in the government's ability to provide
            services, a dramatic change is required because "band aids" are insufficient to restore
            public confidence.
         Implementation of a project from within the established bureaucratic structure is more
            sustainable, even if there is weak institutional capacity. A project provides the
            opportunity to improve institutional capacity
         A critical ingredient in the development of an innovative program--adequate,
            relevant and necessary technical assistance in this case--cannot be eliminated without
            careful analysis of the consequences of the decision.
         CMSs require continuous support from government to sustain the reforms and to
            continue improvements in the quality of instruction. Intensive and hands-on approach
            is required for the long-term.
         School reform is contextual and is an evolutionary process requiring meaningful local
            participation and contribution. Functional partnership among key community
            partners (parents, influential persons, local NGOs, and school personnel) may take
            school reform to new heights and encompass new dimensions.
         The sense of ownership and a new feeling of responsibility generated by the transfer
            of school management to the community can lead to the institutional strengthening of
            the SMC.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

        (a) Borrower/implementing agencies
No comments.

        (b) Co-financiers
Not applicable.

        (c) Other partners and stakeholders



                                                   19

No other partners or stakeholders




                                     20

                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)


                                   Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest
            Components                                                     Percentage of
                                   (US$ millions)     Estimate
                                                      (US$ millions)       Appraisal

1. SCHOOL GRANTS                             3.21               5.21                162
2. SCHOLARSHIPS                              0.38               0.13                34
3. CAPACITY BUILDING                         0.59               0.26                44
4. MONITORING AND
EVALUATION                                   0.48               0.10                21


               Total Baseline Cost           4.66               5.69

Physical Contingencies                       0.30                -                   -

Price Contingencies                          0.22                -                   -
               Total Project Costs           5.18               5.69
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                -                   -
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                -                   -
        Total Financing Required             5.18               5.69                110




(b) Financing

                                                      Appraisal     Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds             Type of Co-                               Percentage of
                                        financing      Estimate       Estimate
                                                     (US$ millions) (US$ millions)  Appraisal

Borrower                                            0.18           0.33           183
International Development Association
(IDA)                                               5.00           5.36           107




                                                 21

                                                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The outputs listed below were drawn from CSSP aide memoire of September 2008.

                                                                                                        Physical Progress
          Component/Activity                                       FY              FY                   FY                 FY                  FY               FY
                                                                2003/04          2004/05             2005/06            2006/07             2007/08          2008/09
 School Grants Component
          Incentive Grants
          No. of schools transferred to community                1,000             500                 146                389            Continued         Continued
          management14                                                                                                                   by EFA            by EFA

          Performance Grants
          Performance Grant for increased enrolment                         5,616 students      3,980 students
          (Rs.500 per student)                                                                                      4,390 students

          Performance Grant for increased pass
          percentage (Rs.500 per percentage point)                          191 schools         257 schools         500 schools

          Grants to intensively supported schools for
          additional teachers
          Grant of Rs.53,300 per primary level teacher                      82 teachers         120 teachers        Continued by         Continued         Continued
                                                                                                                    EFA                  by EFA            by EFA
          Grant of Rs.63,700 per lower secondary level                      25 teachers         130 teachers        295 teachers         Continued         Continued
          teacher                                                                                                                        by EFA            by EFA
          Grant of Rs.97,500 per secondary level teacher                    10 teachers         50 teachers         165 teachers          Continued        Continued
                                                                                                                                         by EFA            by EFA
          Grants to additional teachers for incentive
          schools (based on the student enrollment)
          Grant of Rs.53,300 per primary level teacher                      37 teachers         50 teachers         Continued by         Continued         Continued
                                                                                                                    EFA                  by EFA            by EFA
          Grant of Rs.66,300 per lower secondary level                      105 teachers        83 teachers         Continued by         Continued         Continued
          teacher                                                                                                   EFA                  by EFA            by EFA
          Grant of Rs.97,500 per secondary level teacher                    54 teachers         44 teachers         Continued by         Continued         Continued



14In addition to 2,035 schools transferred to community management under CSSP, 5,216 schools were transferred under EFA by the project closing date. After the closing date an
additional 751 schools have been transferred.



                                                              20

                                                                                      Physical Progress
      Component/Activity                                  FY           FY            FY               FY         FY         FY
                                                        2003/04      2004/05       2005/06         2006/07     2007/08    2008/09
                                                                                                EFA          by EFA      by EFA
      Other Incentive Grants
      Translation of two subjects of grade one in 5              Completed
      mother tongues
      Grants to schools for hiring SOs                           -              445 schools
      Grants to schools for recruiting female or dalit           14 teachers    42 teachers
      teachers.
      Child friendly teaching support grant for                                 33 schools
      intensive schools
      Matching grants for instructional support                                 243 schools     250 schools  300 schools
Scholarships Component
      Scholarship to the first child of dalit,         -
      disadvantaged and below poverty line families              1,354 students 2,526 students
      (Rs.500 per student at the primary level)
      Scholarship to the first child of dalit,         -
      disadvantaged and below poverty line families              387 students   400 students
      (Rs.700 per student at the lower secondary
      level)
      Scholarship to the first child of dalit,         -
      disadvantaged and below poverty line families              74 students    173 students
      (Rs.1,000 per student at the lower secondary
      level)
      Scholarship for child other than first child     15,640    5,088 students 5,603 students
      (Rs.250 per student)                             students
Capacity Building
      Support for need based training to teachers                249 schools
      Six-day training for SOs                                   177 persons
      Grants to SOs for community mobilization                   250 schools
      Communication on Management Transfer                       Radio, TV and                               Regional
      Program                                                    National Daily                              and central
                                                                                                             level media
                                                                                                             campaign
                                                                                                             completed
      Three and six-day orientation programs on        780       600 persons
      CSSP for officials, and three-day workshop for   persons
      accountants




                                                      21

                                                                                     Physical Progress
      Component/Activity                                FY            FY             FY              FY           FY       FY
                                                      2003/04      2004/05        2005/06          2006/07      2007/08   2008/09
      One-day orientation program for social                    1,200 persons
      workers, politicians and community members
      Development of different materials e.g.,                  100 %          5 types of      CMS Directive  2 type
      Guidelines, Brochures, Forms, Training                    completed      different       developed and  materials
      Packages etc.                                                            materials       printed        developed
                                                                                                              and printed
      Experience sharing among the SMC members                  250 school     400 school      350 school     500 school
      and teachers of intensively supported schools.            stakeholders   stakeholders    stakeholders   stakeholder
                                                                                                              s
      Community strengthening 2-day workshop for                               2,285 school    500 school     1,000
      local stakeholders in collaboration with CSNN                            stakeholders    stakeholders   school
                                                                                                              stakeholder
      Orientation for regional and district level                              150 persons     125 persons    80 Persons
      officials
      Developing and broadcasting of a documentary                             Completed       Film reviewed
                                                                                               and broadcast
Monitoring and Evaluation Component
      Baseline survey of the intensive supported     59 schools
      schools                                        surveyed
      Action research and progress update from                  906 schools
      schools regarding school management and
      learning improvement
      Support to the bachelor's and master's level              10 person
      students and MOE officials for field research
      Program Monitoring                                        monitoring on  monitoring on   Monitoring on  Monitoring
                                                                54 districts   52 districts    65 districts   on 65
                                                                                                              districts
      Monitoring and evaluation of selected schools                            30 schools      30 schools     30 schools
      on an annual basis




                                                    22

                         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

No economic analysis was carried out for this LIL at appraisal. Section 3.3 of the ICR provides a
short note on efficiency of the investment made.




                                                23

      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                            Title            Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Rajendra Dhoj Joshi        Sr. Education Specialist        SASHD Task Team Leader
Susan E. Hirshberg         Sr. Education Specialist        SASHD Education specialist

Bigyan B. Pradhan          Sr. Financial Management               Financial
                           Specialist                      SARFM  management
Kiran Ranjan Baral         Sr. Procurement Officer          SARPS Procurement
Lynn Bennett               Lead Social Scientist            SASSD Social assessment
Nawaf A. Al-Mahamel        Counsel                         LEGSA Lawyer
Ivonna Kratinsky           Sr. Financial Officer           LOAFC Loan officer
Afshan H. Khawaja          Sr. Social Scientist             SASSD Social assessment
Gertrude Cooper            Program Assistant               SASHD Team support
Sushila Rai                Program Assistant               SASHD Team support


Supervision/ICR
Mohan Prasad Aryal        E T Consultant                   SASHD Education specialist
Purush Ratna Bajracharya   Consultant                      SASHD Political economy
Kiran Ranjan Baral         Sr. Procurement Officer          SARPS Procurement
Lynn Bennett               Consultant                      SACNP Social development
Khagendra Prasad Bhattarai Consultant                      SASHD Political economy
Nazmul Chaudhury           Senior Economist                SASHD Evaluation
Julie-Anne M. Graitge      Program Assistant               SASHD Team support
Padma Bahadur Khadka       Consultant                      SASHD Political economy

Nagendra Nakarmi           Senior Program Assistant        SARFM  Financial
                                                                  management
Mohan Gopal Nyachhyon      Consultant                      SASHD Pedagogy
                                                                  Financial
Bigyan B. Pradhan          Sr. Financial
                           Management/Operations SpecialistSARFM management/
                                                                  operations
Sushila Rai                Program Assistant               SASHD Team support
Neena Shrestha             Procurement Assistant            SARPS Procurement

Gajendra Man Shrestha      Consultant                      SASHD  Education
                                                                  Specialist
Maria Madalena R. dos
Santos                     Consultant                      LCSHD Education specialist

Maria Elena Anderson      Consultant                       SASHD Education specialist

Joel E. Reyes              Sr. Institutional Development   SASHD  Institutional
                           Specialist (Education Sector)          development




                                              24

25

(b) Staff Time and Cost



                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
             Stage of Project                             USD Thousands
             Cycle                No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                          consultant costs)
             Lending
              FY03                         9                       50.67
              FY04                                                 -2.30
              FY05                                                  0.00
              FY06                                                  0.00
              FY07                                                  0.00
              FY08                                                  0.00
                           Total:            9                   48.37
             Supervision/
             ICR
              FY03                                                0.00
              FY04                         11                    59.90
              FY05                         17                   137.23
              FY06                           9                   47.10
              FY07                           9                   57.13
              FY08                           6                   41.45
              FY09                           6                    0.00
                           Total:          58                   342.81




                                              26

                                       Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


1.        During the project implementation period annual household surveys were carried out.
The surveys are mainly focused on households with 0-15 year olds within the selected service
areas of sample schools. Household survey forms were developed with detailed description of
previous years' survey information. The forms were developed in a way that would allow
systematic tracking of the previous year children's record in the service area. The children's
yearly school enrollment grade tracking system was done as in a longitudinal study. In addition
to children tracking system, new births that occurred in the respondents households are recorded
in the survey.

2.        Sampling. The school selection criteria are similar as in the 2006 household survey.
They represent regional and ecological variations across the country. Within the 30 sample
schools, 8 schools are pilot schools15 and the remaining 22 schools received both incentive and
performance grants through the =CSSP.

                         Status of Out-of-School Children by Selected Indicators16
                                                           (in percent)

                                                                                                                       Changes
                                                                                                                         from
                                                                                                                        2004-
                               Indicators                            2004      2005        2006       2007      2008    08, %

 1   Out of school children of primary school age in the
     service area                                                     41.0      36.0       14.1       12.3      10.4      75

 2 Out of school children of age 6 in the service area                53.3      45.5       14.8       14.5      13.6      75

 3   Out of school girls of primary school age in the
     service area                                                     42.0      36.4       14.2       12.6      10.6      75

 4 Out of school girls of age 6 in the service area                   54.8      44.8       14.6       13.8/     14.9      73

 5   Out of school dalit children of primary school age in
     the service area                                                 50.0      41.7       18.8       17.7      15.1      70

 6   Out of school dalit children of age 6 in the service
     area                                                             65.2      58.6       17.2       21.9      21.4      67

 7   Out of school janajati children of primary school age
     in the service area                                              44.0      37.0       14.7       13.0      10.9      75

 8   Out of school janajati children of age 6 in the service
     area                                                             56.1      47.2       14.7       15.7      13.5      76

Source: Household Survey, 200817

3.        The beneficiary surveys show that the percentage of out of school children of primary
school age has been reduced significantly, with the largest reduction observed in girls of primary



15The modality for support to intensive support schools were piloted at the beginning on the project in eight schools.
16Based on attendance (not enrolment)
17This table is based on the final report. The figures in the ISRs were based on the interim report. Therefore, some figures may
not tally with the figures in the ISRs.



                                                                   27

school age. It is encouraging to note that the participation rates of dalit and janajati children
have increased considerably in the sample school service areas. While there has also been an
important reduction in out-of-school children of age 6, there is still a close to 14% of these
children who are not in school in the sample service areas. This is primarily associated with the
tradition of enrolling over-aged children in grade 1.

4.      CCSP has met its objectives of improving participation rates, particularly of girls and
disadvantaged groups.




                                                 28

                    Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1.      A qualitative impact evaluation of the CSSP was carried out in 2007. The field study
consisted of a sample of 35 schools in 8 districts. Before the field study began meetings were
held with DOE officials including staff in the focal point. Questionnaires were completed by the
schools, interviews were conducted with head teachers and focus groups discussions were held
separately with SMC chairpersons, head teachers, teachers, students, and parents. The data
collection instruments were pre-tested in one district.

2.      The results of the evaluation indicate that the transfer of school management to the
communities has triggered a process of change and transformation in CMSs mainly in the areas
of school management, physical and instructional improvement, and partnership building. CMSs
have improved their management practices, adopted transparent and competitive teacher
recruitment procedures, and have generated considerable local resources. Improvement in
physical infrastructure appeared to be the most common and most cherished outcome of school
transformation. The improved look of the school enhanced the credibility of the school in the
community. Instructional facilities have been considerably expanded after management transfer
as shown by the provision of computers, library, and teaching and learning materials in the
CMSs. Instructional transformation ranged from reorganization of classrooms through subject-
wise improvement, to total instructional system development. Increased parental care and
concern about their children's learning has made the school management and the teachers more
serious and responsible in promoting student learning. CMSs have developed partnerships
internally and externally. The internal partnerships have provided a strong base for the
meaningful participation and contribution of the community to the school. External partners,
mainly local government institutions, NGOs, and international NGOs have extended significant
financial and other needed support to CMSs. The CSSP also witnessed the emergence of new
alliances such as the CSNN and the Education Journalist Group.

3.      The CSSP has set the stage, facilitated the transformation process and produced visible
output and impact at the school and policy level. At the school level, CMSs have generated
significant local resources in addition to grants provided under the CSSP. With these resources,
CMSs added new teachers, and improved physical and instructional facilities. These helped to
improve school operation, particularly by increasing working days as well as teacher and student
regularity. As a result, school enrollment and pass percentage have steadily increased. A
conviction has emerged among CMSs that the community management of a school can make a
difference in the look, functioning and effectiveness of the school.

4.      The fact that the EFA 2004-2009 is also financing the transfer of school management to
communities in view of sustainability and enhanced school accountability is a testimony to the
policy impact of the CSSP.

5.      These evaluation results are consistent with those of the CMSs programs in El Salvador,
Guatemala, and Nicaragua. School transformation in these programs started with physical
improvements, reduction in teacher and student absenteeism, increased participation of parents in
school activities, and increase in availability of instructional materials for teachers and students.




                                                    29

                             Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

1.        Brief Introduction of the Project

The purpose of CSSP was to help GON to scale up transfer of publicly financed schools to
community management by demonstrating that community management can contribute to
enhancing participation, quality, efficiency, and accountability of schools. Takeover of
management of schools from communities by the government was a great oversight that eroded
local ownership of schools and subsequently quality of education. Local Self Governance Act
(1999) and the Seventh Amendment of Education Act paved the way for transfer of schools to
community management.

2.      Project Design

The objectives of the project were enhancing participation of the local communities, ensuring
quality of education, and increasing efficiency, and accountability of schools. The components of
the project were School Grants, Scholarship, Capacity Building, and Monitoring and Evaluation.

The implementing agency for the project was the DOE under the MOE. The existing
administrative structure was used for implementing project activities. School Management
Section (primary) was made responsible to plan and execute the program at the central level. In
the same way Regional Education Directorate (RED) and District Education Offices (DEO) were
involved at the regional and district levels.

Collaborative approach was adopted for creating awareness and advocacy. In this connection
Community School National Network (CSNN) was the major partner. Side by side NGOs and
civil societies also collaborated in building capacity of the local community.

3.      Project Achievements

There was strong government commitment to community management as reflected in the
periodic plans and the education sector plan. Different studies have documented changes in
CMSs. Some of the examples are as follows:

 Increased participation of SMC, PTA, community-based organization, parents and NGO in
    school management and development.
 Local resources were mobilized for computer and science laboratories, school library, and
    construction.
 Different innovative techniques in school management and development such as income
    generation, child centered learning and parents' contribution in students' learning evolved.
 School performance has improved dramatically: drop-out rate significantly reduced;
    students' learning achievement increased; enrollment of dalit, janajati and girls children
    increased.
 School activities are transparent to the stakeholders. CMSs have developed the culture of
    participatory decision making.
 Social audit has become regular in CMSs, which has improved governance schools.



                                                  30

4.      Role of the Donor

The World Bank was the single donor for the CSSP. The Bank has created enabling environment
for implementing the project. It has helped in capacity building of stakeholders. The Bank also
conducted different studies to identify the effectiveness of the project and find out the corrective
measures for improvement.

5.      Performance of Partners

Major partners in program implementation were CSNN and SOs. One hundred seventy NGOs
were hired as SOs for providing technical support to CMSs. Though performance of some SOs
was exemplary, overall the performance of SOs was mixed. CSNN was a major partner since the
beginning of the project. CSNN played a critical role in policy advocacy and strengthening the
capacity of SMCs.

6.      Constraints

The CSSP constituted a paradigm shift of development strategy from centralized approach to
decentralized one. The following constraints were faced during the implementation of CSSP:

 Limited understanding in the teachers' community.
 Inconsistency in the political commitment.
 Inadequate awareness of key stakeholders in their rights, roles and responsibilities.
 Limited application of the legal provisions, particularly, related to permanent teacher
    recruitment and promotion by the SMC.
 Absence of the elected local bodies to support the school management in a decentralized way.
 Greater focus in increasing number of CMSs than in quality improvement.
 Weak monitoring.

7.      Lesson Learned

 Political stability and strong government commitment is needed for effective implementation
    of the program
 Consensus among the key stakeholders is a prerequisite for reforms. CSSP would have
    achieved greater success if it was able to secure support of teachers' community.
 CSSP suffered because of its inability to ensure continuity to performance grants. For success
    of projects it is critical to give continuity to all major project activities.

8.      Conclusion

Transfer of school management to the local community was a major agenda of the government
that was strongly articulated in Tenth Five Year Plan (2002-07) and education sector plans.
CSSP was a leading program to facilitate the school management transfer. The project has
achieved its objectives in pleasing ways, as well as the project has succeeded in establishing
exemplary model of school management by community. It has proved that communities are able



                                                     31

to manage schools and that they are eager to takeover the responsibility of school management.
Learning from CSSP, community participation in school governance should be ensured for
improving quality of education in Nepal.




                                                32

         Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable. No co-financiers or other partners were involved with this project.




                                                33

                         Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documents

1.    Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 25789-NEP, The World Bank, 2003.
2.    Development Credit Agreement, Credit No. 3808-NEP, IDA, 2003.
3.    Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) and Aide Memoires, IDA, 2004-2008.

Project-Related Studies, Surveys, and Reports
1.    National Assessment of Grade 8 Students, Educational and Developmental Service
      Centre (EDSC), July 2008.
2.    Nepal: Japanese Grant for the Implementation of CSSP, Implementation Progress Report
      and Financial Monitoring Report, March 2008-July 2008.
3.    Community Managed School Advocacy, Centre for Policy Research and Consultancy,
      June 2008.
4.    Household Survey Reports, CSNN, 2006 and 2008.
5.    Community Managed Schools in Nepal, A Trend in School Reform, Gajendra Man
      Shrestha, Agni Prasad Kafle, Arbinda Lal Bhomi, Sugam Bajracharya, December 2007.
6.    Governance of Community Managed Schools in Three Districts of Far Western Nepal: A
      Summary Report, CSNN, 2007.
7.    Pilot Baseline Survey (2005/06) and Pilot Follow-up/Baseline (November 2007)
      Evaluations, Nepal Community School Support Project, IDA.
8.    Baseline Survey of Selected Community Managed and Government Managed Public
      Schools in Selected Districts, Volume I, Main Report, New Era, June 2005.
9.    Community Schools in the Process of Transformation, CSSP, May 2005.
10.   Community-Managed Schools, Nepal, Survey Report, Community School National
      Network, 2005.
11.   A Country Case Study on "Improving Local Service Delivery for MDGs in Asia:
      Education Sector in Nepal", undated.
12.   Joint Evaluation of Nepal's the EFA 2004-2009 Sector Program, February 2009.

Other Documents and Publications

1.    Flash I 2008 Report, DOE.
2.    Unequal Citizens, Gender, Caste and Ethnic Exclusion in Nepal, Summary, The World
      Bank, 2008.
3.    Impact Evaluation for School-Based Management Reform, The World Bank, December
      2007.
4.    Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing (Grant) to Nepal for the Education for
      All Project, Report No. 41346-NP, November 2007.
5.    Nepal, Joint Bank Group Draft Interim Strategy Note, FY2010-2011, The World Bank
      Group, South Asia Region, February 2009.




                                               34

