                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 55407




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                   NEPAL



                            SCHOOL
                     COMMUNITY            PROJECT
                                    SUPPORT
                             (CR. 3808)




                                    28,2010
                                 JUNE




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group
Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = (rupee)
Community School Support Project
As of March 2003 (Months before Appraisal)                         As of September 30,2008
US$1 =NPR78.3                                                      US$1     = NPR73.22
NPR 1 = US$0.0133                                                  NPRl      = US$0.013657


Abbreviations and Acronyms
BPEP      Basic and Primary Education Project     NGO          Nongovernmental organization

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy            NLSS         Nepal Living Standards Survey
CERID      Center of Educational Innovation and   NORAD        Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
           Development
CSSP       Community Schools Support Project      OECD         Organ`ization for Economic Cooperation and
                                                               Development
DANIDA     Danish International Development       PAD          Project Appraisal Document
           Agency
DCA        Development Credit Agreement           PCU          Project Coordination Unit

DDC        District Development Committees        PISA         Programme for International Student Assessment

DFID       United Kingdom Department for          PIU          Project Implementation Unit
           International Development

EFA        Education for All                      PHRD         Policy and Human Resources Development

EMIS       Educational Management information     PPAR         Project Performance Assessment Report
           system

EU         European Union                         PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

FTI       Fast-Track Initiative to achieve        PRSC         Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
          Education for All
GDP       Gross domestic product                  QAG          Quality Assurance Group

ICR       Implementation Completion Report        SAR          Staff Appraisal Report

IDA       International Development Association   SMC          School management committee
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group            SWAP         Sector-Wide Approach

ISR       Implementation Status and Results       TIMSS        Trends in International Mathematics and Science
          Report                                               Study
JICA      Japan International Cooperation         VDC          Village Development Committees
          Agency
LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan            UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific, and
                                                               Cultural Organization
MoES      Ministry of Education and Science       UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund


Fiscal Year
Government:                 January 1 -December 3 1
Director-General, Evaluation                               :    Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group, World Bank         :    Ms. CherylGray
Manager, Sector Evaluation Division                        :    Ms. Monika Huppi
Task Manager                                               :    Ms. Helen Abadzi
                                                           1



 IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.

About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Banks work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Banks lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The operations, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger
evaluation studies.
       A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEGWB. To prepare
PPARs, IEGWB staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases
visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with staff of the Bank and the government, other stakeholders,
and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well
as examine issues of special interest to broader IEGWB studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to peer review and IEGWB management approval. Once cleared internally, the PPAR
is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent to
the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEGWB are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following
is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional information is available on the
 IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance of objectives, efficacy, and efficiency.
Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
(expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be
achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the extent to which the project achieved, or is
expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to
alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment operations. Possible ratings: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings: High, Significant, Moderate, Negligible to
Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loanlcredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision
Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and .agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency performance. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
                                                                       ..
                                                                       11




Table of Contents
Table of Contents           ..............................................................................................................    ..
                                                                                                                                              11


Principal Ratings ..............................................................................................................             ...
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                             11


Key Staff Responsible ......................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                             ...
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                             11

Preface .................................................................................................................................     v

Summary ..........................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                              ..
                                                                                                                                             v11

1. Background ..................................................................................................................              1

2. Project Objectives, Relevance, and Implementation ................................................                                         3

3. Achievement of objectives ...........................................................................................                      9

4. Ratings ........................................................................................................................          17

5. Issues: Sectoral Strategy and Community Management .......................................                                                21

6 . Lessons ........................................................................................................................         23

References .........................................................................................................................         25

Annex A.Implementation of project components ........................................................                                        31

Annex B . Supplementary Tables ....................................................................................                          33

               .
Annex C An Ongoing Impact Evaluation of the Formal Transfer of School
  Management in Nepal   ................................................................................................                     39
Annex D. Basic Data Sheet ..............................................................................................                     41

Annex E. Borrower's Comments ....................................................................................                            43

Figures
Figure 3-1 : Resource Generation from Different Sources for Physical Facilities Development ... 15



Table 2-1: Objectives of the Community School Support Project (Cr. 3808) .................................                                    6
Table 3-1: Funds raised by source in 30 selected schools .............................................................                       15


 This report was prepared by Helen Abadzi. who assessed the project in September 2008 . Marie-Jeanne
 Ndiaye provided administrative support .
                                                                   ...
                                                                   111



   Principal Ratings
                                               ICR *                         ICR Review *                            PPAR
  Community
  ~- School Support Project (Cr. 3808)                                                                                                ~




  Outcome               Satisfactory                                        Unsatisfactory                      Unsatisfactory
  Risk to Development Negligible to low                                      Significant                         Significant
  Outcome
  Bank Performance      Satisfactory                                        Unsatisfactory                      Unsatisfactory
  Borrower              Satisfactory                                         Moderately                          Moderately
  Performance                                                                Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
   * The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank. The ICR
   Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
   ** According to the 2006 harmonization guidelines, sustainability has been replaced with a "risk to development outcome" rating.


   Key Staff Responsible
                                             Task Manager/                       Division Chief/                Country Director
~-                                                Leader                         Sector Director
 Community School Support Project (Cr. 3808)
 Appraisal                               Rajendra Dhoj Joshi                 Michelle Riboud                  Kenichi Ohashi
 Completion                              Rajendra Dhoj Joshi                 Amit Dar                          Susan Goldmark
                                             V



Preface
        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on an education
project in Nepal. The Community School Support Project (Cr. 3808) in the amount of
US$5 million equivalent was approved on June 30,2003. The credit closed on September
30, 2008 after two extensions totaling 24 months, and fully disbursed.

        The PPAR was conducted to assess the outcomes of Bank policy and investments
in a low-income country that underwent a period of civil conflict and political upheaval.

        The document is based on the following sources: Implementation Completion
Report (ICR), Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Development Credit Agreement
(DCA), PHRD Grant Agreement, and project files, particularly the supervision reports.
Also, IEG consulted the research literature, reports on Nepal, and data on schooling
trends. An IEG mission visited Nepal in September 2008 to interview officials, donors,
and beneficiaries, observe instruction in schools, and collect other pertinent information.
Field visits took place in Kathmandu, Dulikhel, Okhreni, and Charikot districts. The
author thanks the government officials who received the mission for their extensive
cooperation.

       Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to
government officials and agencies for their review and comments. The Borrower's
response has been taken into account in the report and included as Annex E.
                                           vii


Summary
        This document reviews the performance of the Community School Support
Project (Cr. 3808) approved in FY03.

        The Community School Support Project was supported by a Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL) that aimed to develop a knowledge base for the successful transfer
of school management responsibility to local communities following legislation that
devolved decision-making powers to that level. The project financed social mobilization
and a menu of grants as incentives for school committees to accept formal management
of their schools. According to the project design, the committees that agreed to do so
were expected to raise funds, enroll out-of-school children, and be accountable to other
school committees, such as parent-teacher associations and monitoring committees. The
project surpassed its target of formally transferring 1,500 schools to community
management. However, implementation suffered from fiduciary challenges and resistance
by teachers' unions and insurgents. Deficiencies in the evaluation design impeded
formation of the knowledge base needed to learn what could help communities manage
schools effectively.

        The development objectives of this project were substantially relevant to the
country's human resource development, but the relevance of project design was
negligible. Project objectives were not clearly stated and design documents did not
specify which responsibilities would be transferred to communities. There was no
evaluation design on the basis of which the formal school transfer could be assessed. The
overall rating for relevance was modest.

        The outcome of the Community School Support Project is rated unsatisfactory.
                            the
Despite the use of a LILY project did not generate the knowledge base needed to
determine what makes for successful transfer of school management responsibility to
local communities and to determine what the effects of transfers are on quality of
learning and efficiency of resource use. Risk to development outcome is rated
signijkant, because community involvement in poorer areas may be limited or financially
unsustainable without extra funding. Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. The
Bank used a LIL to test certain incentives in promoting school management, but failed to
design an evaluation system that would establish cause-effect relationships; instead it
financed in subsequent projects a scale up of the experiment before adequately evaluating
the results. Also, it did not sufficiently consult with all key stakeholders on project
design. Finally, borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory; the government
agreed to the project strategy but many implementation arrangements did not materialize,
and district education staff often had limited knowledge about the grants and terms
offered under the project.

       This assessment provides a number of lessons for the education sector:

   Community management of schools offers many potential benefits, but it is important
   to understand what communities of different educational and income levels are likely
   to implement. The education of the poorest children should not depend heavily on the
   means available to the very poor communities.
                                           ...
                                         Vlll



Before scaling up pilot activities, it is important to evaluate those pilots using robust
evaluation designs. In particular, LILs should strive to create best practice in
evaluation in order to maximize learning.

Major educational reforms should be based on solid analytical work and take into
account relevant research and evaluations of similar experiences elsewhere. There is
little evidence that the design of the CSSP drew on research and evaluation findings
of experiences with community management of schools, particularly as it relates to
learning quality and outcomes, further compounding the lack of robust evaluation
carried out under the LIL itself.




                                                                   Vinod Thomas
                                                                  Director-General
                                                                     Evaluation
                                                          1



 1. Background
1.1 Nepal is a largely mountainous, predominantly agricultural country with a US$340
per capita income. The terrain and the country's cultural norms have impeded access to
education for women, minority ethnic groups Oanjatis) and lower-caste Hindus (dalits). I
Schooling opportunities for women have improved over time, but social disparities in
access to education have remained high; in 2001, gross primary enrollment in the poorest
fifth of households was only 22 percent compared to 90 percent enrollment in the
wealthiest fifth.'

1.2 Alleviating the poverty of socially excluded groups, particularly women, became an
important goal of Bank and donor strategy. Lending started in 1978 with two technical
education projects, but the Bank soon focused on access to primary education through the
Education I11 project; it then continued with the first and second Basic and Primary
Education Projects (BPEP 1-11), Following the completion of BPEP I1 in 2004, the Bank
co-financed, along with eight other donors, an Education for All (EFA) project (to be
completed in January 20 lo), and it approved a School Sector Reform Program project in
September 2009 (Annex ByTable 1).

 1.3 Community management and user groups have been Nepalese traditions in multiple
sectors. Until 1971, the country's educational system consisted of about 4,000 schools,
mainly for the upper castes, which were managed by community committee^.^ In 1971 the
National Education System Plan made all schools public, and the lower castes were
eventually permitted to enroll. Generally school management committees that had
traditionally run schools continued to exist, though they were often politically appointed
(Carney and Shrestha 2009).

1.4 Social inequities gave rise to a civil war that started in 1996, intensified in 1999,
and ended effectively in 2007. The projects implemented in Nepal in the early 2000s were
affected at various times by the civil war. About 2,000 schools (out of about 2S,OOO)
closed at some point. The need to flee conflict areas affected the education of about
250,000 children that often crowded classrooms in the Tarai region. Many supervisors
could not visit their posts or visited only those close to roads. Some regional education
offices were damaged, and records were destroyed.

1.5 Institutional weaknesses, geographical isolation, and the civil war revived
government interest in community management of schools. In 1999, a Self Governance
Act was passed, decentralizing the management of services to sub-national level of

  World Bank Country at a Glance, 2008; Janjatis account for about 37 percent of the population, and dalits for about
13 percent (Gurung 2002). About 42 percent ofNepalis are illiterate, 28 percent have only primary education, 32
gercent secondary and 1.6 percent higher education (Yadav 2008).
  World Bank (2001), p. 7 and Basic and Primary Education Project 11 (BPEP 11) Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
p.58. Nepalese schools offer primary education (grades 1-5), lower secondary education (grades 6-8), secondary
education (grades 9-10) and higher secondary education (grades 11-12). The Department of Education regulates grades
1 to 10, and the Higher Secondary Education Board grades 11-12. Schools tend to have primary and secondary grades
in one facility.
  G. Shrestha et al. 2002.
                                                          2

government (municipalities/villages and district levels) and strengthening community
participation in their management for sectors such as education, health, drinking water,
irrigation and forestry. Support for decentralized decisions in education has become an
integral part of the government and donors' education strategy. The Bank has also
supported community management in almost all sectors through investment credits and
the First Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC; FY06).4 Furthermore, the Basic and
Primary Education Project (BPEP II), approved in 1999, supported community
management in all schools of the country and built capacity at the central, district and
local levels to support all committees (IEG 2009). Under BPEP 11, the Department of
Education undertook extensive training to promote decentralization policies and
strengthen field staff competencies at district and local education offices (e.g. inspectors
and supervisors were trained on financial management). A number of evaluative studies
were also undertaken to study the effects of community management vis-a-vis other
factors influencing student learning.

 1.6 In 2001 the Education Act was amended to provide a legal framework for
partnerships between elected local governments (municipalities for urban areas, Village
Development Committees (VDC) for rural areas and District Development Committees
(DDC)) and the central government at the national and sub-national levels (mostly district
level administration of line ministries). All public schools were designated as
"community schools" and were to be managed by a School Management Committee
(SMC). The regulations provided for a committee consisting of one chair and three
parental members, including one female, to be selected by the parents from among
themselves. Members include the Ward president of the VDC or Municipality where the
school is situated, one person nominated from among the founders of the school or donors
to the school, one teacher selected by the teachers, and the headmaster, who is also the
secretary.' The Act did not specify the procedures for committee member selection.

1.7 Before the BPEP I1 appraisal there was a pilot of organizing committees consisting
mainly of parents, including mothers. Community responsibilities included hiring and
paying temporary teachers, reviewing annual school performance, controlling school
finance, managing school property and funds, mobilizing additional resources, distributing
textbooks and scholarships, nominating teachers for training, and drawing up school
improvement plans. These tasks would be performed through the head master (BPEP I1
PAD, p. 60).

1.8 A 2006 study of schools in three districts (regular and transferred) found that
community-based monitoring was functional in many schools (CERID 2006; also see
Annex B Table 3), but overall had many limitations. There were no conceptual
frameworks or minimum standards, training for committees had been insufficient, and the
task was perceived differently by different people. In particular, the study found that
committees did little monitoring or supervision of classroom instruction. The better
educated committees tried to ensure that students did homework, but less educated
communities had little interest in the school. School development initiatives were taken by

  PRSC ICR, p. I . The PRSC priorities included strengthening community user groups in irrigation and rural roads and
also a handover of sub-health posts to management committees.
  Nepal Education Act 2028 (l971), as amended by the Seventh Amendment 2058 (2001) and in effect since 2002.
individual committee chairs rather than member teams, but many chairmen were not
guardians of students, and their interests in education were unclear. For example, only 34
percent of preschool chairmen were actual guardians of children in the school. The study
also found that leadership of the head teacher was cruciaL6 The findings raised questions
regarding the effectiveness of school management committees as the central strategy for
improving educational quality, particularly in low-income areas.

1.9 A longitudinal study (2002-2006) found that in general, school-level planning had a
positive and significant effect on student promotion rates, even controlling for
socioeconomic status (CERID 2007). The effect may to some extent indicate teacher
quality; teachers were involved heavily in formulating school improvement plans, and it is
possible that the schools with more task-oriented teachers were able to plan better and also
help students learn more. Also, school-level expenditures had a highly positive effect on
examination score and promotion, although controlling for students' background reduced
the magnitude of the effect. This finding suggests that community fundraising may
significantly contribute to learning outcomes. Thus better-off communities may give their
students an advantage separate from management effects.

1-10 The projects after BPEP I1 (see para. 1.2) continued to fund various initiatives in all
schools, but emphasis was placed on empowering communities by offering them a formal
transfer of responsibility along with various incentives. This methodology was piloted
through the Community Schools Support Project (CSSP) and adopted by subsequent
projects. Various sections of this report discuss relevance, implementation experience,
mission visits, ' and evidence regarding the extent to which the activities and inputs of the
Community Schools Support Project may have contributed to outputs, outcomes, and
impacts.

2, Project Objectives, Relevance, and Implementation
2.1     The Community School Support Project was a US$5 million LIL that became
effective in 2003. As mentioned earlier, BPEP I1 financed training and inputs to help
management committees in all schools of the country operate schools more effectively
(IEG 2009). By contrast, this LIL tested a model that was applicable only to committees
in the entire country that agreed, after an advocacy process, to take over formally the
responsibility of managing their schools (objectives in Table 2-1). As an incentive,
committees would receive a one-time grant of about US$1,200 (NRS 100,000) to use as
they saw fit and become eligible to apply for a menu of other grants. The committees
would have to be democratically elected, prepare action plans for the school, raise funds,
and be accountable for expenditures to other school committees that would be formed for


  CERID 2006, p, 6.
' The IEG mission visited nine schools in Kathmandu, Dulikhel, Okhreni, and Charikot districts: Viswaniketan primary
and secondary school, Kathmandu; Samajik Kalyan primary school, Dulikhel; Kalika Praveen school, Manthali; Sri
Janakalyan, Okhreni district; Gaurishankar higher secondary school, Ramechhap; Banghari primary and lower
secondary school, Ramechhap; Bhimeshwar primary school, Ramechhap; Sri Janavijaya primary, rural Charikot,
Bhairawi secondary school, Sunarpani, Charikot. This was a convenience sample and was used for illustration rather
than rating projects. Nearly all schools were in poor rural areas of hilly terrain. Classes were extensively observed, and
interviews were held with teachers, principals, and some management committee members. Pertinent mission findings
are discussed in various sections.
                                                            4

this purpose (a process called a "social audit"). However, some important details were
not clarified.8
2.2     In 2001 , the Education Act had just passed, and means were being sought to
implement it effectively. According to project documents, the Bank and the Government
started discussing the concept of "formally" transferring schools to community
management in late 200 1. In the 2003 Country Assistance Strategy, the transfer of
schools to community management became the Bank's main strategy for quality
improvement in primary education in Nepal, along with provision of textbook^.^
According to some officials interviewed, there was limited government interest, partly
because the insurrection made it difficult to reach out to some communities. In 2002 the
Ministry of Education and Sports (MoES) adopted the formal transfer of schools to
community management as a policy and committed to targets on the number of formal
transfers (PRSC ICR 2006, p. 12).

2.3     A comparison of the DCA and the PAD reveals a lack of clarity about project
objectives (Table 2- l), the definition of a "community-managed school", the additional
responsibilities to be transferred to communities beyond those given to other community-
managed schools, and the relationship between the objectives and components.
Specifically, the following issues have arisen:

(a) The definition of community-managed schools in the PAD is unclear. l o Technically
    speaking, all Nepalese schools are managed by communities in the sense that all
    government-funded schools are supervised by a School Management Committee
    (SMC) which included community representatives. It is likely that committees have
    varying levels of activity, but the PAD did not make the distinction between the
    existing government-funded schools supervised by a SMC and those that were
    supported by the project. Readers may thus get the impression that only certain schools
    are community-managed. The PAD and subsequent project documents also failed to
    clarify that the regular community schools and the formally transferred schools
    essentially differed in just two items: a letter of transfer (Figure 3-6) and a one-time
    grant of about US$1,200. Further grants required an application. The IEG mission


   School catchment boundaries are often unclear, and it is uncertain who can vote in an election, how many votes a
family has, or whether the ballot will be secret. Parents and guardians would participate, but voting participation rates
were not reported. In principle, anyone can sponsor a child and run for committee membership. The MoES Flash report
showed that only 5 percent of schools had actual elections for committees in 2006, and the remaining schools selected
the committee members. The 2008 Flash report showed that 65 percent of management committees and 63 percent of
garent-teacher associations were selected rather than elected.
   CAS 2003. For primary and secondary education, the Bank's strategy for improving access and quality was to (a)
ensure efficient and timely textbook distribution to all students in the beginning of the year; and (b) convince
management committees of schools throughout the country to take up formally the responsibility of managing schools.
By the end of the 2003 CAS period, the expected outcome was that 25% of schools would be under community
management and that the management would provide (a) inclusive and (b) higher quality education (World Bank 2003,
Annex B IO).
l o The Nepal Country Assistance Evaluation states on p. 58:"In principle, since 2002, the management of all
government-funded schools is supervised by an SMC. The "formally transferred" schools refer to government-funded
schools for which the SMC has entered in a formal agreement with the DEOs that stipulates respective parties'
responsibilities. In exchange for more responsibilities and autonomy (hire and pay temporary teachers, review annual
school performance, control school finance, mobilize additional resources, distribute textbooks and scholarships,
nominate teachers for training, and prepare school improvement plans), these communities would receive a grant of
approximately US$1,200 and eligibility for a menu of additional supporting grants."
                                                           5


     verified in discussions with the task team and Nepalese educators that the schools
     participating in the formal transfer process received no additional authority or resources
     over other schools, beyond the one-time transfer.

(b) The responsibilities to be transferred to communities are not described in the DCA or in
    the PAD. Since the government has stated that it has not withdrawn from any
    responsibilities, it is unclear what responsibilities were supposed to be transferred to
    communities, if any. It is also unclear how one would define a successful transfer of
    responsibility. l 2

(c) The objectives in the PAD and the DCA differ in several key points. The DCA refers
    to the formation of a knowledge base on transferring management to communities,
    whereas the PAD has two formulations that are different: one, which refers to mere
    acquisition of critical experience prior to scaling up management transfer, and a second
    that defines the development objective as testing "whether community management of
    schools can better contribute to enhance (i) participation rates, (ii) quality and
    efficiency, and (iii) accountability." If the development objective was simply to
    acquire critical experience without formal documentation, then the project did not
    conform to the LIL guidelines. Also the PAD did not specify what topics a
    knowledge base would contain or what format it would have.

(d) The financed activities and numerous statements in the project files suggest that the
    project de facto had an implementation rather than an experimentation and learning
    goal. Every implementation status and results (ISR) report mentions as targets the
    numbers of schools transferred to community management rather than the development
    of a knowledge base. Rather than use the LIL for experimentation and evaluation, the
    credit proceeds were used to scale up the formal transfer of schools to community
    management before the concept could be evaluated. l3




    During appraisal, the government had reportedly planned to give transferred schools extra resources for temporary
teachers, but finally other schools received temporary teachers as well. Also, the Eighth Amendment of the Education
Act (2005) was passed to suspend central recruitment of teachers and enable transferred schools to hire all teachers
locally, but this has not been implemented. The ICR of the project (finalized six months after the PPAR mission, p. 1)
states that transferred schools may appoint head teachers and release non-performing permanent teachers, but the
exclusivity of these functions was unclear.
    No regulations show the government withdrawing from oversight responsibilities, as also discussed in project
documents. During interviews, the IEG mission verified this.
l 3 The EFA project included US$7 million for incentive grants, and the Additional Financing for the EFA project
included another US$25 million (World Bank 2007b, p. 24).
                                                     6

Table 2-1: Objectives of the Community School Support Project (Cr. 3808)
Objectives                                              Components
Development Credit Agreement:                           a School grants (US$3.66 m at appraisal, US$4.9 m
The objective of the Project is to develop a              final) for (i) incentive grants for committees taking
knowledge base needed for successful                      over management of government-funded schools; (ii)
transfer of responsibility for management of              block grants tied to performance for post-primary
government-funded community schools to                    schools transferred to community management; (iii)
local communities.                                        performance grants for improving access to primary
                                                          education and promotion rates; (iv) supplementary
Project Appraisal Document:                               grants to community schools for expanding
The objective of the proposed Community School            enrollment to cover additional costs; and (v) other
Support Project (CSSP), a Learning Innovation Loan        grants for support to marginalized communities, and
(LIL) was to assist the government to gain critical       piloting of innovative approaches.
experience for successfully up-scaling the transfer of 3 Scholarships (US$0.44 m at appraisal, US$0.13 m
management of government-funded schools to                final) for scholarships to poor out-of-school children
communities (p. 2).                                       (Rs. 500-1000 for the first child of disadvantaged
                                                          families in primary and secondary schools and Rs.
Note: PAD Annex 1, p. 16 lists the DCA objective          250 for subsequent children.
as a "follow-on development objective" and
includes a new "project development objective:"         3 Capacity building (US0.42 m at appraisal, US$0.3
To test whether community management of schools           m final) for (i) assistance to communities for
can better contribute to enhance (a) participation        managing schools; (ii) need-based training for
rates, (b) quality and efficiency, and (c)                teachers and committee members; (iii) orientation for
accountability. The DCA, Annex 2, under Part D of         civil servants, local government officials and
the project also specifies the following activity to be   resource persons; and (iv) policy communications.
undertaken: "Developing a system of Project             zMonitoring and Evaluation (US$0.48 m at
monitoring and developmental impact evaluation"           appraisal, US$O. 10 m final) for a well-established
(P. 14).                                                  and smoothly operating M&E system that could
                                                          support periodic improvements in the experimental
                                                          design of the LIL.

2.4      In 2005, a recipient-executed PHRD grant (TF055 146), was approved for the
project. It was a Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) implementation
grant for US$699,600, which disbursed US$633,206.18 for: (a) community awareness
and social mobilization, (b) monitoring system for school enrollments, retention and
completion, (c) quality monitoring system for decentralized schools, (d) study on the role
of community characteristics on project take-up and recommendations for strengthening
of capacities, (e) best-practice handbook and network peer-to-peer support activities, and
(f) project implementation plan. Project documents also show that the grant paid for
other activities, such as NRS 50,000 to each of 30 schools to buy computers. The grant
application uses a different statement of objectives from others found in the PAD: "The
project's short-term objective is to put in place the set of conditions needed to ensure an
effective management of schools by communities and thus, to permit a successful .
implementation and scaling-up of the decentralization policy."

2.5     This PPAR presents results on achievement of two objectives: (a) the DCA
objective that has a relatively specific output, a knowledge base; and (b) the objective
mentioned in the Annex 1 of the PAD, which is more specific and was used for the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and in the project's supervision reports.
                                                            7


RELEVANCE
2.6     The relevance of objective(s) for this project is rated substantial. Community
management is a Nepalese tradition and reflects a government strategy for improved
services in many sectors. The 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) focused on community management of schools as the
primary means of improving quality of education. Therefore a knowledge base would be
important for successful implementation as would be an assessment on whether
community-managed schools enhance participation, quality, efficiency, and
accountability to citizens.

2.7     The relevance of project design is rated negligible. According to Bank
guidelines, a LIL should last about 3.5 years and focus "on experimentation, learning and
piloting in search of possible developmental solutions, prior to potential larger-scale
operations." l 4 However, the formal transfer of schools to community management was
not tested against a control group. No clear rationale was given for the grant amounts
chosen. l5 The eligible schools were self-selected on willingness to undertake this process,
but the project did not monitor the characteristics of schools that rejected the offer.

2.8      It would have been wise to assess the incidence and level of activity of school
committees in the country during or shortly after project appraisal and to adjust project
design accordingly. A sample of 80 schools surveyed in 2004 showed committees in all
schools (New Era 2005, p. 39). But another survey available the time of project
effectiveness showed very poor preparation of the committees for the tasks envisaged for
them.16However, the study received no attention in modifying the project design. Thus,
the population of schools formally transferred to community management was the result of
a selection process whose determinants were unknown. Financing, socioeconomic status,
and the $1200 financial incentive became confounding variables. Given these design
faults, the LIL could not evaluate the effectiveness of the CAS strategy to use community
management as a means to improve quality of education in Nepal (paras. 2.2,2.6).

2.9    Bank staff interviewed by the IEG mission expressed a strong belief that
democratically elected management committees would be accountable to citizens and
perform better than formally or informally appointed committees. " However, the Bank


14
    According to Operations Policy and Country Services (OPCS) guidelines, LILs are loans of $5 million or less
financing small, experimental, risky and/or time-sensitive projects in order to pilot promising initiatives and build
consensus around them, or experiment with an approach in order to develop locally based interventions prior to
widespread implementation. A LIL focuses on experimentation, learning and piloting in search of possible
developmental solutions, prior to potential larger-scale operations. Clarity of the learning objectives and the system to
monitor and evaluate them are vital to the purpose of the project (Operations Manual, dated since 1998).
l 5 "...the proposed incentive grants together with performance grants described below, will be kept within the range of
the supports schools are receiving from the development budget (PAD p. 23)." However this range was not provided,
and there was no piloting to determine which amounts would be sufficient to motivate communities.
l 6 CSNN 2005 (p. 11) cites a 2003 CERID of Ilan and Morang districts ("Management Transfer of Public Schools
under Formative Research Project") which presaged the problems that later became salient.
I 7 The PAD states that "Community-managed schools are expected to perform better than government-managed
schools, as such schools will be accountable to the community, whereas the latter is accountable only to the
Government" (PAD p. 22). Annex 2, p. 27 states that "The main hypothesis of the project is that community
management of government-funded schools can better enhance access to schools for all children, including children
                                                             8

did not offer behavioral or other research to support the hypothesis that a nominal transfer
to community management in Nepal would increase motivation among community
members. Some behavioral research findings might predict positive outcomes, but other
research suggests that nine-member committees lacking individual responsibility may fall
victims to `social loafing' (e.g., Latane et al. 1979). The project had no plan to test the
sustainability of committee activities.

2.10 The LIL design did not consider the likely effects of the insurgency on the project
or the lessons of earlier Bank projects. Some operations completed in Nepal before,the LIL
appraisal raised questions regarding elite ca ture and the ability of the very poor to build
schools or use communal forest resources.` Yet the PAD did not explore the possibility
that community management might have an adverse impact on equity. Also the risk
assessment made no mention of the possible impact of the insurgency or of the political
risk that the teachers' unions would prevent the local hiring and management of teachers.
The only risk seen with respect to communities was the inability to mobilize additional
resources (PAD p. 14).

2.1 1 The design was also weak in fiduciary aspects. Various administrative
arrangements (e.g. how the budget was to flow to schools) were outlined in the PAD in
great detail, but fiduciary checks and balances relied on a set of four committees per
school that did not exist during appraisal and were not formed later. The feasibility of
their establishment was not explored. (See quality at entry rating in para. 4.4).

Implementation Experience

2.12 The project experienced considerable problems in all aspects of its operation. The
most important are discussed below.

2.13 Several administrative arrangements foreseen in the PAD did not materialize.
The implementing agency was the Department of Education, as with BPEP 11, and a
project council should have been constituted in the MoES, but a council was not active.
District Education Offices did not act with the expected degree of attention to the
program and gave limited counterpart funds. Project documents show that some district
staff were confused by the multiple grant options. l9

2.14 Internal controls remained weak during most of the project life. Most of the
schools did not maintain the required information to the level of detail agreed (New Era
2008). Project documents and audit reports show repeated warnings for delayed audits,
including a warning by the Auditor General in 2008. In 2007, about 70 percent of the


from disadvantaged communities, and better improve efficiency and quality of school education compared to schools
not transferred to community management".
l8 E.g. the Earthquake Schools Rehabilitation project (Cr. 2048) ICR and the Project Performance Audit Reports of the
Hill Community Forestry Project (Credit 2028-NEP) and the Second Forestry Project (Credit 1400-NEP) 2001, OED
Report No 22438.
   A 2007 supervision document for example stated that district education office staff, including resource persons, did
not have clear a understanding about the objectives, justification and implementation detaiEs of the policy of transfer of
schools to community management and that they were thus not able to confront arguments against community
management of schools put forward by the opponents of the policy.
                                                          9

transferred schools were completing social audits. 2o Action plans for improving financial
management and procurement practices were to be developed, but it is unclear what
remedies were applied. Some teachers filed a corruption case with the government
against some district office staff in August 2005.

2.15 Some Bank procurement practices in the project also raise management questions.
The Bank financed consultant contracts for school surveys to the Community Schools
National Network (CSNN), an organization purportedly consisting of school committee
members. CSNN was also hired by the government with PHRD grant funds to conduct
surveys. However, the PHRD grant agreement has a condition that consultants paid by
the grant would not also be paid by the Bank during the grant period.21 Informants raised
questions regarding a potential conflict of interest in the use of CSNN as an entity for
designing and conducting surveys; a 2006 supervision report mentions concerns that
those collecting the data were over-reporting enrollments of poor children (para. 3.7).

2.16 According to project documents and IEG mission interviews, opposition by
teachers, educational researchers, academics, and the Maoist insurgents to the concept of
handing schools over to communities delayed implementation. The project was extended
twice by a total of 27 months, and the Bank funded a public information campaign2'.

3. Achievement of objectives
3.1     The project financed the transfer of 2,035 schools to community management,
exceeding the planned 1,500 referred to in the PAD, and an,additional5,216 schools were
transferred under the subsequent Education for All            As there were roughly
38,000 schools in Nepal in 2006-7, the CSSP covered about 7 percent of the total (Annex
ByTable 6). This chapter reviews the evidence on the extent to which the objectives of
the project were achieved in these formally transferred schools.




2o The MoES management information system recorded in 2007/08 that nationwide 62.3 percent of schools completed
social audits, whereas among the formally transferred schools 70 percent completed social audits (ISR 9/21/07). The
Ministry formed a committee chaired by the Director of Administration and Physical Service Division to oversee the
social and financial audits of schools.
*' The Community Schools National Network (CSNN) was set up in 2004 with technical assistance paid by the Bank's
budget, and has received money from other donors as well. It only represents the `transferred' schools rather than
management committees in general. According to informants, an undetermined number of management committee
members are not parents per se but have `adopted' children to become eligible for membership.
" A team of consultants specializing on political economy of reforms was engaged to work with schools and to help
strengthen the capacity of Community School National Network - an umbrella organization of community-managed
schools" (Excerpt from project documents, 9/27/07). In 2004 -2007, Bank funds were used to hire a consultant group
referred to as the Educational Journalist Group to document and disseminate project outcomes through television,
radio, and print media.
23 World Bank (2009), p. iii and Annex 2. Schools in Nepal often have grades 1-10 together; primary, lower secondary,
and middle secondary count as one unit each. At the end of the project, 6,590 school units had agreed to the formal
transfer process.
                                                         10

Develop a knowledge base needed for successful transfer of responsibility for
management of government-funded community schools to local communities
(modest)

3.2      The project and the PHRD grant financed several thoughtful and innovative
activities that in principle could help make school committees throughout the country
more effective. Supporting organizations, such as local NGOs, assisted in
implementation. The activities notably included (a) advocacy to children's guardians
about their roles in school management; (b) peer-to-peer networks and internal study
        that (according to reports) resulted in useful information exchange among
committee members; (c) a report card to 100 schools that described their conditions and
challenges; and (d) a best-practice handbook. Other outputs included a case study of
successful and not so successful community schools and a study on the role of
community characteristics on project take-up and recommendations for strengthening of
capacities.''

3.3     The activities produced some important lessons regarding service delivery to the
poor. The cooperation of teachers and headmasters in the handover process was crucial
(CRPeC 2008). The evaluation of an operations manual showed that many committees
depended on the headmaster for reporting and handling committee financial accounts (a
potential conflict of interest). Financial reporting requirements were complex, and
committee members needed accountancy training. The educational level needed to read
the operations manual and follow its directives suggest that many of the transferred
schools belong to communities with educated residents. Poorer communities might be
unable to handle the accounting and reporting demands of formal management. Some
NGO staff lacked sufficient training for effective social mobilization, and many district
education officers had conflictive relations with committees. Other studies (CERID
2006) also resonated on the difficulties of managing poor schools effectively (para. 1.7).

3.4     The studies conducted by the project could have given considerable insight on
community decisions, but most were poorly designed and could offer little specific
information. (See monitoring and evaluation section.) Some appeared to be advocacy
pieces, with unsubstantiated statements about the schools being `transformed'.26The
studies focused on the transferred schools, thus missing the opportunity to learn how the
regular community-managed schools operated across time and how the two types of
schools differed in inputs, outputs, and outcomes.

3.5    An important argument made in the PAD in favor of formal transfer to
community management was the expectation that committees would lower teacher
absenteeism and delays because of increased accountability of the schools to the
communities. Thus, parents would normally be expected to monitor teacher absenteeism

24 World Bank (2006). Study visits were arranged to effectively managed schools so that others could learn from them
 Upadhyay et al. 2008).
15
   CPReC 2008, Chapter 1.
26 For example, a follow-up of 10 schools contains comments such as `Once the agreement between the SMC [School
Management Committee] ... and the D E 0 [District Education Officer] is signed which transfers the management of
school to the community, the school gains a new status and new sense of belonging. The school finds itself in a new
context of responsibility and a compelling reason to take a new direction.' (G. Shrestha 2005).
                                                           11

        The
ratesa2? project would have also been expected to monitor the plans made by
communities for vigilance.of teacher performance as well as the number of teachers fired
or transferred due to community vigilance. However, MoES confirmed that these data
were not collected. Some self-reported teacher attendance data are available from a set of
30 selected schools, but their reliability is unknown.28Overall, the project collected little
generalizeable information that would serve as a knowledge base. Lack of pertinent
knowledge handicaps the government?sintent to scale up citizen involvement in schools in
an effective and efficient manner.

Test whether community management of schools can better contribute to enhance:
(a) participation rates, (b) quality and efficiency, and (c) accountability (negligible).

3.6     The project limited this test to schools self-selected for transfer to community
management, so this objective was not met for community management in general. Also,
the project?s de facto evaluation design - which involved baseline and endline surveys --
did not take the self-selection of communities for formal transfers into account, nor did
these surveys track the same communities over time. Nevertheless, this section presents
the evidence collected with respect to this subset of schools.

Part (a): Enhancing participation rates

3.7      The term ?participation? refers to enrollment rates. In communities that agreed to
the formal transfer of school management, students? guardians were eligible for various
types of grants if the schools (i) mainstreamed out-of-school children; (ii) mobilized in
order to include indigenous, disadvantaged and dalit communities; and (iii) improved
student promotion rates.29A follow-up study of 30 selected schools in 2004-06 found that
out-of-school children in the service areas of formally-transferred schools dropped from
41 to 15 percent, out-of-school girls from 44 to 15 percent, while out-of-school janjatis
and dalits dropped from 44 to 15 percent and from 50 to 18 percent, respectively. This
met or exceeded the project?s targets set in the PAD (p. 19). However, the ?service area?
was in fact a selected sample of intensely supported schools where the highest levels of
interventions were provided. Furthermore, concerns were raised about the reliability of
the underlying data. 30 Another report stated that enrollments had fallen short of PAD
targets. The latter study also reported discrepancies between household data and school
survey data as well as between school and MoES figures, so the magnitude of the

27 Management committees are not authorized to fire permanent teachers or principals, but they may request their
transfer. According to informants interviewed during the mission, head teachers often agreed to the ?transfer? of only
one school unit (e.g. the primary or lower secondary section of a K-10 school); this would ensure that they would keep
their position.
28 A study of 220 ?regular? community schools showed that only 40 and 54 percent of schools had all teachers present
on each of two surprise visits. Teacher absenteeism rate was 17.8 percent on the first visit and 12.8 percent on the
second. About 50 percent of principals had taken no action on absenteeism, and only 5 percent had requested a
teacher?s dismissal (New Era 2008).
29 DCA p. 3. According to the ICR, 335 supplementary grants were given, some to multiple schools. At least 160
schools received ?intensive support?, that is, multiple grants, based on a first-come-first served basis.
30 World Bank (2006b), Table 4.1 and Figure 4.3. Aide-memoires also express concerns about exaggerated self-
reporting ofjanjati and dalit enrollments by school management committees. If the figures are correct, then the 41
percent out-of-school children in the catchment area seemed inordinately high given the approximately 20 percent
recorded by New Era (2005, p. 19) and an average net enrollment ratio of 88 percent for the rest of the country in 2005.
The ICR offered no evidence that community management rather than other factors were responsible for this change.
                                                         12

reduction attributable to the transfer to community management, if any, is unclear (World
Bank 2006b). In any event, the effect of formal transfer on results could not be
established without comparing the results to those of an adequate control group. Further
studies were to be undertaken in 2009- 10.

3.8     To encourage committees to enroll out-of-school children in their schools, the
government pays to all schools block grants on the basis of the number enrolled. Grants
are small and barely cover teacher salaries. There is no money to buy any educational
materials or repair premises (Vaux 2006). Management committees may find it necessary
to charge school fees (called exam or entry rather than tuition fees), but in Nepal
education is free for the primary grades, so this practice is strictly speaking illegal.31
Funding limitations have created disappointment, and may have also encouraged
overstatement of enrollments and charges of fees. Important equity issues arise when the
poor must raise money to send other poor children to school (Section 4).

3.9      During IEG mission visits, significant absenteeism rates were noted in all poor
schools, transferred or otherwise. (Three schools, two of them transferred, where a
complete count could be made had average attendance of 57-67 percent; the 2008 MoES
statistical report ("Flash report") showed grade-wise average attendance of 58-67
percent.) Two committee chairmen of formally transferred schools who were asked about
the absenteeism rates replied that it was not possible to bring certain children to school
every day. Some lived too far, or parents were not yet conscious of schooling need.
Overall, the extent to which participation rates were raised as a result of community
management is unknown, and the difficulties in raising them were not investigated.

Part (b):Enhancing quality

3.10 Project reports suggest that a number of schools taken over by committees function
as envisaged. Many of the communities that chose to take over schools had the financial
or intellectual means to manage them.32 They could provide a "separate room for each
grade/section, library, computer class and office room. In some schools, there was
provision of separate office room for the committee. Similarly, because of plastered walls
in all rooms, display of different records in the office and display of student and teacher-
made materials in the classrooms were possible. In well-partitioned and spacious
classrooms, teachers felt comfortable to conduct class activities in an interactive way."


31 See reports in Annex C; according to Carney et ai. (2006) there were cases of parents forced to withdraw children
from certain schools because of fees.
32 About 88 percent of committee members were literate, about 55 had more than primary education (New Era 2005 p.
128). Also, according to a survey of a'stratified random sample of 220 regular community-managed schools that had
not yet been transferred, in 16 districts (New Era 2008), a third of management committee members had some primary
education, 11 percent had completed primary, 28 percent had completed secondary, and 11 percent had higher
education. They were 83 percent male and held about 10 meetings annually. In meetings the most frequent discussion
topics were improving school infrastructure (91%), finances (85.2%) and enrollment of out of school children in
schools (85.2%). Less frequently discussed matters were: improving quality of teaching and learning (83.3%), school
administrative issues (75.7%), mobilizing local resources for school (69%) and community participation in school
affairs (61.9%) (New ERA 2008, pp. 35-37). About 23 percent of household heads reported participating in a meeting,
nearly 68 percent of respondents reported that they had donated in one way or the other to the school in their
community, and in 86 percent of the cases it was physical labor. About 48 percent of the respondents thought the
school was good or very good, 36 percent thought it was average, and 13.8 percent thought it was bad; 79.4 percent
were satisfied with teachers' performance and 77 percent thought teachers were dedicated (New ERA 2008, p. 47-50).
                                                     13

(World Bank 2007d). Some schools in the Ilam district provided computers and email
service. Some other districts introduced English-medium instruction in grades 1-3.33
After such improvements, some students reportedly moved from private to community
schools. Project documents report such cases as evidence of improving quality, but
generalizeable evidence was not obtained.

3.1 1 A lot of student performance data were collected, though the datasets have
weaknesses. The differences by school type may reflect the different socioeconomic
levels of the communities electing to participate in the formal transfer, plus effects of
additional financing. Also, self-selection bias may exist independently of advocacy
efforts. Background variables did not include consistent measurements of variables
necessary for improved information processing, such as instructional time use, textbook
availability, and teacher knowledge. Thus, individual studies could not provide conclusive
evidence that changes in test scores are due to formal transfer to community management.
Below is a summary of the main studies and findings (also see Annex B, Table 5).

3.12 An initial purposive sample was taken of 80 transferred and not transferred
schools (data collected in May-October 2004; New Era 2005). Test scores of over 1300
students showed baseline differences among schools receiving an incentive vs. additional
types of grants. The latter, as well as their controls, often scored higher than the
incentive grants schools, but there was much variation in Nepali, math, and social studies
among grades. The test was not comparable to the many achievement tests given earlier
(Annex ByTable 2), so it was not possible to compare the performance level of this
sample with that of other schools of Nepal. This dataset showed that all schools had
management committees and that in most characteristics the `transferred' and `regular'
schools did not significantly differ (New Era 2005). This dataset was apparently not used
further.

3.13 A subsequent pilot impact evaluation study was carried out by a research team
using a random sample of 80 communities/schools from six districts in the country, none
of which had yet undergone the formal transfer; 40 were randomly "treated" with NGO
advocacy and 40 were controls (did not receive advocacy; see Chaudhury and Parajuli
(2009). The objective of the pilot was to ascertain roughly what share of the schools that
received advocacy were likely to transfer, as the basis for designing the subsequent main
impact evaluation in 220 communities/schools nationwide. Between the baseline of the
pilot impact evaluation study (December 2005-February 2006) and the follow-up survey
(August-November 2007), 15 of the 40 schools in the treatment group and 5 of the 40
schools in the control group agreed to be transferred to formal community management.
The pilot baseline and follow-up surveys included an achievement test for 1300 5th
graders in 65 schools. Initial evidence suggested that 18 months of formal community
management in this sample made no difference in the learning outcomes except in
science. However, the sample size of the pilot study was too small (only 80 schools) to
draw any robust conclusions about the impact of the formal transfer of school
management. The results of the much larger impact evaluation research project (not
financed under this project), launched in 2007, will be able to address this question,

33 Sumansinh Tamang. Kantipur, September 23, 2008. Samudayak vidyalaya angrezi madiam (Community schools go
English medium.)
                                                              14

    controlling for the self-selection bias inherent in the voluntary nature of the formal
    transfer (see Annex C).34

    3.14 A different test was administered once to students of grades 1, 3, 5 in 300 schools
    during 2008; it showed small and inconsistent differences between regular and
    transferred           In addition, a cross-sectional achievement test given to a sample of
    Nepalese schools in 2008 showed small differences between schools that were formally
    transferred to community management and regular schools (1.9-3 percentage points;
    EDSC 2008; Annex B, Table 7). However, the simple comparison of outcomes between
    formally transferred and non-transferred schools cannot be interpreted as the impact of
    the formal transfer because they do not take into account the selection bias of
    communities electing to formally transfer. Also it is not known how each type of school
    performed prior to the transfer.

    3.15 According to the PAD, teachers of transferred schools were to receive customized
    training, but reports do not mention whether the training took place, what it consisted of,
    and whether it resulted in improved classroom behaviors. Committees often gave first
    priority to financing buildings and furniture,36so it is unclear how much attention
    teaching quality received (Annex B, Table 8). Furthermore, tests given to the teachers of
    a selected sample of schools showed that teachers in transferred schools did not score
    better than those of regular schools. In Nepali, teachers in the two sets of schools had
    essentially the same scores (55.6 vs. 55 percent respectively), whereas in English and
    math, teachers of regular schools scored better (41.2 vs. 44.8 percent and 54.1 vs. 5 1.3
    per~ent).~'  Perhaps teachers of transferred schools had lower baseline knowledge. But
    baseline data did not exist, so the benefits of formal community management transfer on
    teacher knowledge could not be documented.

    3.16 The IEG mission visited four schools formally transferred to community
    management, all in poor rural areas3* Two committee chairmen who were present showed
    little surprise at the teacher absenteeism and delays, student absenteeism, lack of teaching
    aids or noise from other classrooms coming through open transoms. In IEG interviews,
    chairmen were found to consider the way schools operate in poor areas as their norm. It
    was unclear, from these interviews, how management in these communities would result in
    improved quality.

.   Part (c): Enhancing efficiency

    3.17 The PAD did not specify whether the efficiency objective of transferring school
    management to communities was to enhance internal efficiency (dropout and graduation

    34 The impact evaluation research was funded by the Education Program Development Fund (EPDF) of the Fast Track
    Initiative, and was independent of the CSSP project. The results measuring the impact of formal transfers are expected
    in 2010.
    35 Full Bright (2008), tables 5.7-5.10, p. 67-68, 82. In English, Nepali, and math, the two types of schools had
    differences of 1-2 percentage points, with regular schools often scoring higher. The magnitude and direction of
    selection effects are unclear.
    36 World Bank 2007 (draft p. 36). Also CERID 2006.
    37 Full Bright (2008).
    38 See the school observations in IEG (2009), Chapter 2.
                                                       15

rates) or to improve the efficient use of public funds. The key performance indicators in
the PAD include transition, repetition, and dropout rates. The ICR did not present data on
these and had no indicators of management efficiency or cost-effectiveness. The various
evaluation reports had limited evidence regarding either type of efficiency.

3.18 An important project expectation was that committees would raise funds and
supplement the government's funding. The ICR (p. 11) argues that one rupee of
investment generated 1.5 additional rupees, which might increase the efficiency of
government funds use. The survey of 30 selected schools showed that committees did
raise funds (CSNN 2007), though most resources were obtained from international
NGOs. Only about 15 percent of the funds raised were generated by community members
(Table 3-1). Furthermore, all schools visited by the IEG mission, both transferred and
otherwise, reported that they were raising funds and paying contract teachers and other
small expenses. It is unknown whether transferred schools raised more funds than
regular schools, if the socioeconomic status of the community were held constant.
Table 3-1: Funds raised by source in 30 selected schools         Figure 3-1: Resource Generation from Different
                                                                 Sources for Physical Facilities Development

 Sources
 International
                    2004       2005        2006       Total
                                                                 I            DDC.   7
                                                                                               Local
                                                                                               NGQ,

 NGO                  429     90,710     140,439 231,577
 National
 NGO               13,787       9,344      1,852     24,983
 Local
 Agencies          18,495     19,621      17,979     56,095

 Community         56,279     92,495      82,006    230,779                                                        71.2

 Total             88,989    212,170     242,276    543,434
                                                                              Local NGOm VDC     INGO Corn   DDC

Conversion in 2008 US$ dollars                                   Note: DDC: District Development Committee; VDC: Village
                                                                 Development Committee; INGO: international NGO; Com:
                                                                 Community



3.19 Earlier efforts to encourage poor communities to complete or repair schools had
limited outcomes because of limited capacity and resources (e.g. the Earthquake Schools
Rehabilitation Project, Cr. 2047). Some of the schools visited by the IEG mission clearly
did not have the means or organization to carry out civil works satisfactorily. A 2006
survey of selected transferred schools showed that many did not spend the incentive grant
on any activities and just deposited in a bank account (World Bank 2006b). This may
have been due to the fact that US$1,200 is a small amount given the schools' needs. (A
block of classrooms costs about four times that amount.) However, well-to-do schools
may have had little need for it, while poor schools may have been unable to spend it.
About 7 percent of the communities lent the project grant money at high


39 Annex Table B-11, rates and conditions were unknown (World Bank 2006b, Community Managed Schools in
Nepal, final version 2007). By contrast, in 2004, 55% of schools surveyed by CSNN (2005) used the money for
construction and only 11% deposited it in the Bank. But also New Era (2005; annex 5.1, p. 121) shows that
communities contributed only about 1.5% of expenses, and it is described as negligible (p. 43).
                                                          16

Part (d): Enhancing accountability

3.20 The wording of the PAD and the DCA does not precisely specify toward whom
accountability would be enhanced and what evidence would be pr~vided.~'      Project
documents suggest that management committees would be accountable to other school
committees through social audits (para. 2.1). MoES Flash reports showed that social
audits were conducted in about 70 percent of the transferred schools, but they often did
not function as expected (para. 2.13). One reason may be the poor-quality questionnaire
disseminated to schools by the government, which also required high-level literacy41.
Furthermore, the four-committee structure envisaged in the PAD for schools was too
complex to be set up. As a result, evidence of enhanced accountability was very limited.
Furthermore, the fact that this complex structure could not be generalized does not bode
well for accountability arrangements in the long term.

3.21 Overall the tests intended by the alternative objective are inconclusive on
participation rates, quality, efficiency, and accountability. The evaluation framework
necessary to discover whether the formally transferred schools (with and without
intensive support) performed better than other community-managed schools was not
proposed at the design stage or subsequently incorporated into the project. The studies
raise the concern that a considerable amount of money was spent on monitoring and
evaluation activities without creating interpretable experimental designs and obtaining
interpretable findings. An impact evaluation financed by the Education for All-Fast Track
Initiative (EFA-FTI), Education Program Development Fund (EPDF), and the Bank-
Netherlands Partnership Program (BNPP) is underway and may be able to answer some
of these questions in 20 10 (see Annex C for details.)

Stakeholder Concerns on the Transfer of Schools to Community Management

3.22 The IEG mission interviewed 26 persons (teachers, parents, academics, MoES
staff and consultants, journalists, NGO and donor staff) regarding the effects of the policy
of transferring school management to communities. Everyone agreed that the general
concept of community-managed schools has potential benefits, but there was much
skepticism about the specific transfer concept. Interviewees made references to articles,
cartoons, and even a television program that questioned this concept.42The main issues
raised were:

           unclear portrayal of the formal transfer concept as community management of
           schools, given that all schools in Nepal are technically community-managed.




40 See Reinikka and Smith 2004.
41 CERID  (2007b) found a disconnect between authority and accountability at the school levels. Accountability
remained at a moral rather than at a legal level, and the report advocated that the law should be amended to strengthen
legal means for accountability. The report also found that community mobilization efforts had limited significance.
There are similar reports that NGOs do not provide assurance of quality. Staff and management are often, in effect,
contractors, rather than nonprofit organizations per se, and social mobilizers may themselves be disempowered (Hobley
and Paudyal2008
42 Sagarmatha TV programs September 26 and October 4, 2008, Shah 2008; K. Shrestha 2003.
                                                         17

          lack of clarity regarding the duties of the transfer; a lack of provisions for handing
          schools back to the government if future committees refuse the responsibility or
          stop functioning; lack of a venue for appealing committee decisions.
          the political role of the committee chairmanship and the importance of this post as
          a stepping stone into politics;
          risks of arbitrary teacher dismissals in favor of teachers preferred by committee
          members, or demand of rent^."^
     0    anxiety by poorer communities about managing the schools and concerns about
          funding once the US$1200 are spent. Resource persons and head teachers
          reported to the BPEP I1 evaluation mission that communities with limited
          education found it hard to understand what must be done and hesitated to take up
          school management. Many viewed the transfer as an additional financial burden
          and risk to the community (Also see Parajuli 2007). Limited communications
          from district offices contributed to m i ~ ~ ~ n ~ e p t i o n ~ . ~ ~
          Allegations of imposition of illegal school fees.

4. Ratings
Outcome

4.1     Overall, project outcome is rated unsatisfactory. Relevance is rated modest
(average of substantial relevance of objectives and negligible relevance of design; para.
2.1). Efficacy is rated modest. The project was not designed to develop a knowledge
base for community-managed schools in general or transferred schools in particular.
Although the project exceeded its targets of transferring schools to community
management, it did not test whether and under what circumstances the formal transfer of
schools improved or detracted from enrollment, efficiency, quality, or accountability, as
stated in the objectives. Neither the project documents nor the ICR provided sufficient
information to assess whether the management transfer was more efficient than regular
community management or how well the project funds were used. The project spent $5
million to learn whether the formal transfer of schools to community management raised
schooling outcomes and accountability relative to schools that were not formally
transferred, but it did not finance an evaluation that could answer the question. Instead,
many other studies were financed, most not comparable, that could not address the
project objective, and resources were used to transfer more schools than was planned,
even though the efficacy of the intervention had not been demonstrated. Therefore,
overall, efficiency is rated negligible.

4.2    Formal transfers were scaled up as a policy during the CSSP and in the follow-on
Education for All (EFA) project without further evidence of their effectiveness or equity

43 There have been newspaper reports suggesting demands for payments or removals for political reasons. For
    example, in the Kaski district the chairman of the Maoist party was named head teacher (Kantipur September 30,
    2008). However, according to several sources, no teachers are known to have been fired or transferred for
    incompetence.
44 DANIDA 2004, vol2, p. 13; footnote of para. 2.12.
                                                          18

impact. Incentive grants accounted for US$1 million during CSSP, US$7 million during
the EFA project, and US$25 million during the EFA additional financing. The follow-on
School.Sector Reform Project aims to transfer all schools to formal community
management by 2014 (World Bank 2009b). The project PAD refers to the formal
community transfer as a radical reform that was independently

Risk to Development Outcome

4.3     Risk to development outcome is rated significant. Popular resistance and the
governance problems found during implementation do not bode well for a long-term
strategy of transferring school management to communities. The transferred schools
supported by the project were to be managed by committees whose members' tenure
would be limited to three years. Inevitably other community members may succeed them,
whose views and dedication are not ensured.46 It is unclear how closely and who will
monitor committee actions and ensure good governance and fair treatment towards
teachers and students. The risk to development outcome goes beyond the purpose of the
LIL, since formal transfer of school management to communities is supported by the
government and is the cornerstone of Bank strategy for improving school quality and
access. The failure to evaluate the impact of formal transfers to community management
on accountability and educational outcomes before scaling up the intervention could
adversely affect country strategy.

Bank Performance

4.4     Overall, Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. The quality at entry of the
project was highly unsatisfactory because there was no evaluation design for the project
or risk assessment with respect to the insurgency or the teachers' unions, objectives were
poorly articulated, and systemic obstacles had not been identified. The envisaged four-
committee implementation structure did not exist during appraisal. The Bank also
disregarded multiple worrisome lessons regarding the ability of poor communities to
implement complex schemes (e.g. World Bank 2002, CSNN 2005). While the project
proposed a new strategy - the formal transfer of schools to community management - it
was not based on prior analytic work that documented the problems and outcomes of the
preceding strategy. This led critics to suggest that the Bank had a privatization agenda
and was downplaying the primary education achievements of the last two decades (para.
4.6).

4.5     Supervision is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Teams of Bank staff and
consultants regularly visited schools during supervision missions. A parents'
organization (the Community Schools National Network) was contracted to visit schools
and collect data to be used for supervision missions, but some project documents express
concerns regarding the reliability of these data. Survey findings of poor attendance in the

45 World Bank 2009b, p. 52 states "Recently completed EFA evaluation report has independently verified that the
transfer of schools to community management has been a successful initiative and has already led to positive
outcomes." The evaluation team of NORAD 2009, however, reported to the IEG mission that they had relied on CSSP
documents and consultants.
46 One implication is a constant need for training of new committees. Expenditures can be large, as Bank projects from
Tanzania and Honduras have shown (World Bank 2008 b, c ) ,
                                                           19


2005 CSNN report were disregarded. Aides-memoire focused on interactions with
specific schools that agreed to be transferred and paid little attention to evaluation
deficiencies. When it became obvious that all schools in Nepal would operate essentially
under the same rules, the project design was not revised to assess the specific effects of
the transfer incentives. Also, the Bank seemed unable to deal with the auditing and
fiduciary aspects of the project. It did not deal with the conflicts of interest involving
contracts for the Community Schools National Network that also received grant funds
(para. 2.14-2.15). Some informants expressed concerns to the IEG mission that there was
no dialogue with the education community on these perception^,^' that Bank documents                                     .
made unsupported allusions regarding the effectiveness of the government's strategy
preceding CSSP.48

4.6     Donor and government staff interviewed by the IEG mission stated satisfaction
and appreciation with Bank performance in terms of donor coordination, prompt action,
and support for government programs. Some donors, however, expressed a concern that
the Bank brings to Nepal limited technical knowledge on education issues as well as a
private-sector bias and that it did not sufficiently consult with stakeholders. Information
on the project was not adequately shared with donors, and they were not consulted when
the funding guidelines were developed. Furthermore, unclear portrayal of the concept
during the CSSP has confused staff from other donor agencies, creating in many the
erroneous impression that there are two types of schools -- regular and community-
                                                                             the
managed. 49 Some respondents raised concerns that by financing this LILY Bank failed
to study alternatives, such as strengthening management in all communities, particularly
the poorest.

Borrower Performance

4.7     Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The government was
supportive through policies and legislation, and government performance is rated
satisfactory. The implementing agency performance is rated moderately satisfactory.
For much of the implementation period the project was administered by the Department
of Education without specially assigned staff, and administrative arrangements fell short
of the scheme envisaged in the PAD. Audits and financial monitoring reports were often
late. Given the project design faults, it is unclear to what extent the government intended
to learn more about the capacities of communities to manage schools from the operation,
as opposed to the ability of schools to absorb cash grants.

47 This concern is also expressed in a a peer-reviewed publication which stated: "It appears that the World Bank is
engaged in a concerted effort to re-write Nepal's recent educational history, eulogizing the earlier period of locally
owned (but small-scale) `community' schools and portraying the State as a major impediment to change" (Carney et al.
2006).
48 Examples cited were articles and reports such as G. Shrestha (2005). According to the latter report, the transfer
strategy aimed to mitigate a deteriorating performance of public primary schools in spite of heavy government
investment. Also, the 2007 Public Sector Expenditure Review stated that education has deteriorated over time (p. 27-
28). However, no data are provided on the performance of the 4000 schools that existed in 1971, and it is difficult to
assess the validity of comment in the absence of evidence. Overall achievement trends have been positive in
comparable tests (EDSC and CERID, Annex Table B-2).
49 Teachers' unions were not consulted in the development of the Operation Manual for Community-Managed schools
(Vaux et al. 2006, p. 25). Adhikari (2007) expresses the erroneous belief that the Community Schools National
Network serves all schools and is a volunteer network. The Joint Evaluation of the EFA project also incorrectly
presented the role of public sector and community management (NORAD 2009, p. xvi, 50).
                                                            20

Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization

4.8     The monitoring and evaluation design is rated negligible. The project required a
carefully tailored research design to establish cause-effect relationships. The PAD
outlined the need for some treatment and control groups, 50 but the design did not take into
account the systematic differences between communities choosing to transfer and receive
additional grants. There was no effort to use designs that would statistically control
selection decisions in the transfer process (e.g. pair-wise matching or propensity score
matching). Any differences in outcomes between these groups could be due to the
factors leading them to participate, rather than to the interventions.

4.9      Monitoring and evaluation implementation is rated modest. As prescribed in the
PAD, pilot baseline data were collected but two different datasets were abandoned. The
first (New Era 2005) used purposive sampling, but the next selected schools at random. 5 1
Neither the mid-term review documents (May-June 2005) nor supervision documents in
early 2006 (6 months before the original closing date), mention any concerns about the
inadequacy of the pre-post survey evaluation strategy for measuring the impact of the
 intervention^.^^ Aside from the baseline and end line surveys, multiple other studies were
conducted through the PHRD grant and the project itself, but most were qualitative
narratives, with information mainly obtained through self-reports and one-time surveys.53
There was little longitudinal follow-up other than self-reports, statistical analyses were
few, and the studies were not linked or coordinated into an evaluation design. They used
purposive samples of 10-100 schools chosen on the basis of unclear criteria.

4.10 Finally, the introduction of new achievement tests made it impossible to compare
achievement with that of earlier cohorts and other sample^.'^ Survey validity and
reliability were also issues of concern; several survey questions focused on accounting
issues, but few inquired about the educational level of committee members, involvement
level in decisions-making, amount of time available, and distance from school. Some
questionnaires (notably the 2005 CSNN-managed study) asked questions regarding
community activities that only permitted positive answers. Crucial details were missing,

    "For the purpose of the outcome-level testing, a baseline will be established in a sample of government-funded
                              -
community-managed schools treatment group, government-funded schools transferred to community but not
receiving project support except for the incentive grant - partial treatment group, and government-funded schools
managed by the Government-control group. The achievement of these groups of schools at the end of the project will
be compared with the baseline to find out whether community-management leads to better outcomes." (PAD p. 23).
5 1 The New Era 2005 survey surveyed 80 purposefully schools classified as `incentive', `performance', and `control."
It took place shortly after a CSNN survey of 95 schools.
52 In March-April 2008, the CSSP endline survey was conducted for 300 schools and their teachers, children in the
catchment areas, and SMCs, for which new achievement tests were developed for Nepali language and math in grades
 1,3, and 5. This survey had a completely different design than the baseline, with four types of schools in each of 15
districts - community aided, community-managed, community-managed unaided, and institutional (Full Bright 2008).
As mentioned earlier, the learning assessments were not comparable with any previous learning assessments in Nepal.
53 For example, the Community Schools National Network (CSNN) did a survey of 95 purposively sampled
transferred schools (CSNN 2005, April 17), while the Center for Policy research and Consultancy (CPReC 2008, p. 2,
volume 2) studied another 100 schools that chose community management voluntarily, after advocacy, after rigorous
advocacy, or rejected even after advocacy. However, it is mainly an advocacy piece itself and offers limited data.
54 New Era 2008 and Full Bright 2008. Both documents refer to a `TIMSS type test' without clarifying in what way
that test was different from earlier tests conducted in Nepal. New Era (2008) analyzed data of the 220 baseline schools
in terms of percentiles rather than by using the TIMSS scale. The report also stated that some of the students taking this
test did not live in the sampled school catchments areas.
                                                          21

such as the means whereby likely children's guardians were identified, or what the social
mobilization included. No survey questions were found on school fees and on whether
the poor could afford them. Some surveys had questions with unclear definitions, such as
"lower socioeconomic condition of school".

4.1 1 The 2005 PHRD grant financed a number of studies. The grant application stated
that the government's monitoring systems were weak and requested funds to install a new
monitoring and evaluation system for 1,500 schools, although the MoES flash reports
were working reasonably well. It also stated incorrectly that Nepal had no achievement
tests; it proposed to develop them and administer three rounds of tests, but only two were
conducted. Overall, about US$633,206 from the trust fund was spent for monitoring and
evaluation functions, but only a fraction of the planned activities took place.

4.12 The use of data to guide policy is rated negligible. Project documents and reports
to external bodies show a focus on the number of schools that were transferred, and the
                                                                 For
many reports generated did not seem to influence ~trategy.'~ example, one study
found that the vast majority of regular schools also had functional committees, but the
finding did not instigate a change in strategies or research design. The Bank did not issue
a synopsis of the information obtained through all the studies by the end of the project,
and dissemination promised in the ICR in the first half of 2009 was not carried out. There
is little evidence that test results were taken into account for quality improvement
purposes. Aside from a May 2008 internal World Bank workshop, data on students' and
teachers' test scores were not discussed or presented extensively. The outcomes and
evaluation design issues were also not discussed in the PAD of the follow-on operation,
the Schools Sector Reform Project (World Bank 2009b).

4.13 Because of major deficiencies in design implementation and use of findings, the
monitoring and evaluation of the project is rated negligible.

5. Issues: Sectoral Strategy and Community
   Management
5.1    The aim of the 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was to improve
education quality and learning outcomes. The 2002 CAS progress report included a
"pulse-taking" exercise which showed considerable concerns regarding the ability of poor
communities to deal with complex implementation issues.56 Nevertheless, the CSSP was
appraised at about the same time without any special concerns for the poor. The 2003
CAS did not attempt to strengthen all community organizations through some means
known from the vast community-driven development literature. Instead it focused only




" See for example Shrestha and Joshi 2007, report to a Quality of Education Conference in New Delhi.
   "User groups-which have proliferated-tend to be more participatory and successful in the delivery of services. They
are by and large still dominated by local elites and, hence not inclusive (of the poorest)." "NGOs.. . use much of the
money themselves and do not reach the poorest of the poor (except for some dalit NGOs). " `The poorest of the poor
are excluded. As a local official said "they (the poor) are not coming to us so we cannot help them and we have our
hands full.' "(Appendix 11, p. 3).
                                                           22

                                The
on the willing comm~nities.~? official transfer to community management became a
development objective in its own right5*and the cornerstone of the Bank?s education
strategy. Without obtaining further evidence, the ICR of the first PRSC (World Bank
2006a, p. 12) stated that the handover pace had exceeded all previous expectations and
was interpreted as ?symptomatic of the demand that existed for this reform.?

5.2       Some informants interviewed by IEG raised a concern that the selective transfer
of schools to communities may create equity issues. Communities have social
stratifications and informal relations that determine who gets benefits (Hobley and
Paudyal2008). When committee members determine how to use resources, local elites
may benefit disproportionately. The poorest may live too far or lack the needed time to
attend meetings, and may not even know what their rights are (Carney at al. 2006).?
Certainly unleashing the power of communities who can safeguard their own interests is
useful, but efforts to do so should build on the knowledge base established through
research and evaluation from similar experiences elsewhere. Research from Latin
America to Indonesia on the effectiveness of community management for promoting
education quality suggests that community participation does not automatically lead to
improvements in education quality and learning outcomes.60 These and other issues
should have been explored during the preparation and implementation of the CSSP.

5.3     Ultimately, it may be difficult to generalize the model of community transfer. If
all schools received the grant amounts given to transferred schools, public expenditures
for education might become unsustainable. As mentioned in Chapter 1, merely increasing
the expenditures per student may improve learning outcomes irrespective of school
management. In a budget constrained environment, targeting low performing schools in
the poorest area might be called for (also see conclusions of CERID 2007a in para 1.9).
Currently resources are spent to encourage communities to take over, without explicitly
targeting lower performing schools in poorer areas.

5.4    Research shows that people?s prior experiences determine their expectations, so
the poorest may be satisfied with low-quality education61. To help poor communities

57 In some respects, the ?transfer?program worked like a school-level voucher system. Students? vouchers have
produced social stratification (e.g. Chile) but not much better learning outcomes. (E.g. Perry and Leipziger 1999;
Mizala and Romaguera 1998, Carnoy and McEwan 1997 are included in Perry and Leipziger 1999).
5 8 ?This process at the primary level-a fundamental shift from the currently centrally-managed system-has begun over
the past year with over 250 schools transferred by end-September 2003 and an additional 500 applications pending
a proval.? (World Bank 2003, p. 13).
59
     Sowton, circa 2004. The author raises concerns about decision-makers being from influential families and deciding
on educational matters according to their socioeconomic experiences. Studies such as Sibieta et al. 2008 also suggest
that a successful funding system for schools needs to encourage equity, targeting resources where they are most
required, and be reasonably comprehensible to all stakeholders.
6o Banerjee et al. 2008, found that interventions to encourage beneficiaries? participation, such as providing
information, training community members in a new testing tool, had no impact on community involvement in public
schools, and no impact on teacher effort or learning outcomes in those schools. Gunnarsson et al. 2004, in LAC study
found no impact of local control on learning. An Indonesian study found limited community management capacity
(SGP 2002). A study showed that Honduran rural schools were open for 154 days a year, but PROHECO schools
operated for 180 days out of the 200 official days. However, the study also found little difference in learning outcomes.
(Programa Hondurefio de Educacidn Comunitaria, Honduran Program of Community Education; PROHECO ICR,
World Bank 2008).
  See Abadzi 2009 for a review
                                                23

effectively manage schools, such communities might benefit from training on what to
expect and monitor. Means to raise citizens' interest and expectations in schools could
include radio broadcasts on school activities and committee decisions, and instructions to
parents on how well their children should be reading or calculating. Nepal can benefit
from the research that already exists on the opportunities and challenges related to
community based school management, including its equity implications.

6 . Lessons
6.1      This assessment provides a number of lessons for the education sector:

      Community management of schools offers many potential benefits, but it is important
      to understand what communities of different educational and income levels are likely
      to implement. The education of the poorest children should not depend heavily on the
      means available to the very poor communities.

      Before scaling up pilot activities, it is important to evaluate those pilots using robust
      evaluation designs. In particular, LILs should strive to create best practice in
      evaluation in order to maximize learning.

0     Major educational reforms should be based on solid analytical work and take into
      account relevant research and evaluation from similar experiences elsewhere. There
      is little evidence that the design of the CSSP drew on research and evaluation findings
      of experiences with community management of schools, particularly as it relates to
      learning quality and outcomes, further compounding the lack of robust evaluation
      carried out under the LIL itself.
                                             25


References
Abadzi, H. 2009. "Community management as a development tool in the social sectors: Why
       more should be known before its use is scaled up." Paper submitted for publication.
Abadzi, H. 2006. Eficient Learning for the Poor. Washington DC: World Bank.
Abadzi, H. 2003. Adult Literacy Outcomes. Washington, DC. World Bank
Acharya, Sushan and Bal Chandra Luitel. 2006. "Functioning and Effectiveness of
      Scholarship and Incentive Schemes". UNESCO, Kathmandu. Series of
      Monographs and Working Papers no. 9.
Adhikari, Prakash Singh. 2007. "Analysis: Danish Aid for Education and Civil Society
      Involvement in Nepal." Unpublished report submitted to DANIDA.
Ammenwerth, E., C. Iller, and U. Mansmann. 2003. "Can evaluation studies benefit from
     triangulation? A case study." International Journal of Medical Informatics 70(2-
     3):237-48.
Aryal, Mohan Prasad. 2005. "Higher and higher secondary education in Nepal -
       Institutions, Enrollment, Financing and Performances." Final report, June.
       Ministry of Education, Kathmandu.
Asian Development Bank. 2004. "Nepal Education Sector Policy and Strategy." ADB TA
       4326. September.
Asian Development Bank. 2008. "Community Driven Development. Nepal: Country
       Profile." Kathmandu.
Bayne, Sarah. 2005. "Background paper and analytical framework for a conflict
       assessment of the Education for All Programme in Nepal". International Alert.
Banerjee, Abhijit V., Rukmini Banerji, Esther Duflo, Rachel Glennerster, and Stuti
       Khemani. 2008. "Pitfalls of participatory programs: Evidence from a randomized
       evaluation in education in India." World Bank Policy Research Working Paper,
       no. 4584. World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Bista, Min Bahadur. 2006. "Status of Female Teachers in Nepal." UNESCO.
Bista, Min Bahadur, and Stephen Carney. 2004, 2006. "Reforming the Ministry to
        Improve Education: An Institutional Analysis of the Ministry of Education and
        Sports (MoES) of Nepal" ED499633, International Institute for Educational
        Planning (IIEP), UNESCO.
Carney, S., M. B. Bista, and J. Agergaard. 2006. `"Empowering' the `Local' through
       Education? Exploring Community-Managed Schooling in Nepal". Oxford Review
       of Education, 33(5): 61 1-628.
Carney, S., and M. B. Bista. 2009. "Community Schooling in Nepal: A Genealogy of
       Education Reform since 1990." Comparative Education Review 53(2): 189-211.
CERID. 2006. "Education for All Formative Research Report. Synthesis Report of the
     case studies conducted in 2006." Tribhuvan University. Research Centre for
     Educational Innovation and Development (CERID).
                                         26

CERID. 2007a. "Education for All Formative Research Report. Longitudinal Study on
     System Indicators: Cohort analysis." Tribhuvan University. Research Centre for
     Educational Innovation and development (CERID).
CERID 2007b. "Understanding School Autonomy: A Study on Enabling Conditions for
     School Effectiveness." Education for All 2009-20 14 Formative Research Project,
     Report no. 14. Kathmandu, Tribhuvan University. Research Centre for
     Educational Innovation and development (CERID).
Community Learning Center (CLC). 2005. "Educational Needs of Internally Displaced
     Persons living in Western Kathmandu." Survey Report prepared for UNICEF.
CPReC. 2008. "Social Mobilization for participation in the Community Managed School
     Project." (PHRD-Package No. 2) GRANT # TF 055 146. Implementation
     Completion Report, Centre for Policy Research and Consultancy, Vols I and I1
     (CPReC) Kathmandu.
CSNN. 2005. "Community Managed Schools (CMSs) Nepal Survey Report - 2005."
     Community Schools National Network. Kathmandu
CSNN. 2007. "Community Managed Schools in Nepal", Kathmandu.
Chaudhury, N. and D. Parajuli. 2009. "Giving it Back: Devolution of School
      Management to Communities". Initial findings from an impact evaluation in
      Nepal. Unpublished report.
DANIDA. 2004/3. "Nepal: Evaluation - Joint Government-Donor Evaluation of Basic
     and Primary Education Programme 11." Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
EDSC. 2003. "National Assessment of Grade 5 Students." Educational and
      Developmental Service Centre for the Ministry of Education and Sports.
EDSC. 2008. "National Assessment of Grade 8 Students." Educational and
      Developmental Service Center of the Ministry of Education and Sports.
FHD and RIDA. 2009. "Improving local service delivery for MDGs in Asia: Country
      case study." Foundation for Human Development (FHD) and Research Inputs and
      Development Action (RIDA).
Gunnarsson, Louise Victoria, Peter Orazem, Mario Sanchez, and Aimee Verdisco. 2004.
      "Does Local School Control Raise Student Outcomes?: Theory and Evidence on
      the Roles of School Autonomy and Community Participation." World Bunk.
      Working Paper no. 04005. World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Gurung, H. 2002. "Janagadana 2001Anusar Jatiya Tyathanka, Prarambhik Lekhajokha"
      (Based on 200 1 Census, Preliminary Investigation on the Number of Caste/Ethnic
      Groups). Kathmandu: Dharmodaya Sabha.
Hobley, Mary, and Bimala Ray Paudyal. 2008. "Study of Income Generating Activities
      in Kapilavastu and Ramechhap Districts, Nepal" (draft report).
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). 2009. "Project Performance Assessment Report:
       Nepal: Basic and Primary Education Project 11." World Bank, Washington, D.C.
                                          27

IEG. 200 1."Nepal: Hill Community Forestry Project (Credit 2028-NEP), Second Forestry
       Project (Credit 1400-NEP)." Project Performance Audit Reports. Washington,
       DC: World Bank. Report No 22438 (IEG was formerly known as OED).
IEG. 2008. Decentralization in Client Countries. An Evaluation o World Bank Support,
                                                                f
       1990-2007.
IEG. 2004. Books, buildings, and learning outcomes: An impact evaluation o World
                                                                          f
       Bank support to basic education in Ghana. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
Johnson, K. and S.E.K. Bradley. 2008. "Trends in Economic Differentials in Population
      and Health Outcomes: Further Analysis of the 2006 Nepal Demographic and
      Health Survey." Calverton, Maryland, USA: Macro International Inc.
Kantipur 14 Asoj, 2065 (September 30,2008). Anerasvaviyu Krantikari Jhadap (Maoist
       Nepal students' association fight).
Khaniya, T. R. 2004. "Transfer of School Management to Community." Ministry of
      Education.
Khaniya, Tirth Raj, Mana Prasad Wagley, Pramila Rajbhandari, Dr Bijaya Kumar Thapa,
      Shekhar Dhungana. 1999. "National Assessment of Grade 5 Students."
      Educational and Developmental Service Centre (EDSC).
Khaniya, Tirth Raj. 2007. "New Horizons in Education in Nepal." Office Support Service
      Center, Kathmandu.
Khaniya, Tirth Raj. 2008, October 23. "Reform in Higher Education. Key stakeholders
      should be kept informed about the World Bank-funded Higher Education
      Project." Kathmandu Post.
King, Elizabeth M., Peter F. Orazem, and Elizabeth M. Paterno. 2008. "Promotion with
       and without Learning: Effects on Student Enrollment and Dropout Behavior."
       World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series, no. 4722. World Bank,
       Washington, D.C.
Latane, B., K. Williams, and S. Harkins.1979. "Many Hands Make Light The Work: The
       Causes and Consequences of Social Loafing". Journal o Personality and Social
                                                            f
       psycho lo^ 37: 822-832.
Lockheed, M., and A. Harris. 2005. "Beneath Education Production Functions: The Case
      of Primary Education in Jamaica." Peabody Journal o Education 80(1): 6-28.
                                                          f
Mansuri, G. and V. Rao. 2004. "Community Based (and Driven) Development: A
      Critical Review." World Bank Policy Research Working Paper, no. 3209. World
      Bank, Washington, D.C.
Mathieu, Alexandra. 2006. "Reaching Girls in South Asia: Differentiated Needs and
      Responses in Emergencies." UNGEI, March.
Mikhail Samih. 2008. "The Alternative Tertiary Education Sector: More than non-
      University Education." Education Working Paper Series, no. 10. World Bank,
      Washington, D.C.
MoES. 2007a. "Education for All: Mid-Decade Assessment." Kathmandu.
MoES. 2007b. "Annual Strategic Implementation Plan (ASIP) 2007-2008"
                                          28

MoES. 2004. "Nepal Education Sector Development Policy and Strategy. Interim Report
      11." September-December.
MoES. 2005. "School Level Educational Statistics of Nepal." Consolidated Report 2005
      (2062) and 2006 (Flash Reports)
MoES. 2006. "Household Survey of Service Areas of Community Managed Schools."
      Department of Education.
Nepal, Kishore. 2005. "Under the Shadow of Violence." Kathmandu: CJPS.
New Era. 2008. "Baseline and Follow-up Surveys for Nepal Community Managed
      Schools Impact Evaluation." Kathmandu.
New Era. 2005. "Baseline Survey Of Selected Community Managed And Government
      Managed Public Schools In Selected Districts." P.O. Box 722 Rudramati Marga,
      Kalopool, Kathmandu (June).
Nielson, K.A., and T. Bryant. 2000. "Memory Modulation by Intrinsic and Extrinsic
       Reward." Neurobiology of Learning and Memory 84: 42-48.
NORAD 2009. "Joint Evaluation of Nepal's Education for All 2004-2009 Sector
    Programme." Evaluation Report., January.
Parajuli, Mahesh Nath. 2007. "People's participation in school governance? Realities of
        educational decentralization in Nepal." In Holger Daun (Ed.) School
        Decentralization in the Context of Globalizing Governance. New York: Springer
        (pp. 195-211).
Perry, G., and D. Leipziger (Eds). 1999. "Chile: Recent Policy Lessons and Emerging
       Challenges." World Bank Institute, Washington, DC.
Reinikka, Ritva, and Nathanael Smith. 2004. "Public expenditure tracking surveys in
       education." UNESCO-IIEP.
Rivarola, M., and B. Fuller. 1999. "Nicaragua's experiment to decentralise schools:
       Contrasting views of parents, teachers and directors", Comparative Education
       Review 43(4): 489-521.
Sagarmatha TV. 2008. "Samudayak Vidyalaya" (Community School). Aired in
      Kathmandu on September 26 and October 4.
Shrestha, Gajendra Man. 2005. "Community schools in the Process of Transformation."
       Community School Support Project, Kathmandu, May.
Shrestha, Gajendra Man, Ganga Ram Gautam, and Saloni Singh. 2002. "SIP - Based
       Development Programme: A status statement." Paper submitted to the EC
       Education Coordination Office and World Bank/ Nepal. Kathmandu.
Shrestha, Gajendra Man, and Rajendra Dhoj Joshi. 2007. "Community Managed Schools
       in Nepal: Glimpses of Transformation." Paper presented at a World Bank Quality
       of Education conference, New Delhi October 24-26
       (siteresources.worldbank.org/INTINDIA/Resources/Shrestha.ppt   )
Shrestha, Kedar N. 2003. "Transfer of public school to community." Kathmandu Post,
       November 14.
                                          29

Shah, Prakash. 2008. ?Adha talab matra paunchan rahat shikshaharu (Relief teachers
       receive only half the salary).? Shikshak, October.
SIGP. 2002. ?Community participation in the scholarship and grants program (sgp) and
       school improvement grants program.? Jakarta: Independent Monitoring and
       Evaluation of the Scholarships and Grants Program and the School Improvement
       Grants Program.
Sibieta, Luke, Haroon Chowdry, and Alastair Muriel. 2008. ?Level playing field? The
        implications of school funding.? CfBT Trust, UK
        (www.uquebec.ca/observno/fichiers/743 17 2.pdf )
Siprek Kendra. 2007 (2064). Samudayak Vidyalaya Vyavasthapan Sachetna. Hate
       Pustaka 101 (Community School management Advocacy: Handbook 101).
       Kanthmandu, Nepal.
Sowton, C. R. (undated, circa 2004) ?Educational Elitism to ?Education For All?: An
      Analysis and Evaluation of the Nepalese Education System.?
Sultana, Ronald. 2006. ?Facing the hidden dropout challenge in Albania.? Tirana:
       UNICEF.
TRSE. 2003-2006. ?Technical Review of School Education?. Asian Development Bank.
UNESCO. 2006. ?A 10-year year literacy/NFE Policy and Programme Framework.?
     UNESCO. Kathmandu Office. Jawalkhel, Lalitpur Kathmandu 977-1-5554396 /
     769.
UNESCO. 2006. ?Activities in Nepal. Biennium Report. 2004-2005 .??
                                                                 Education Culture
     Communication and Information Sciences.
Upadhyay, Uttam Prasad. 2008. ?Social mobilization for participation in the community
      managed project? (grant TF055 146). Implementation completion report. Centre
      for Policy Research and Consultancy, Kathmandu, June.
Vaux, Tony, Alan Smith, and Sirjana Subba. 2006. ?Nepal Education for All: Review
       from a Conflict Perspective.? International Alert, Embassy of Finland.
World Bank. 1992. ?Nepal: Primary Education Project 111.? Project Completion Report.
World Bank. 2001. ?Nepal: Priorities and Strategies for Education Reform.? Report no.
      22065-NEP. Washington, D.C,
World Bank. 2002. ?Country assistance strategy progress report.? Report No. 24 170-
      NEP
World Bank. 2003. ?A Country Assistance Strategy for the Kingdom of Nepal.? Report
      No. 26509-NEP. Washington, D.C.
World Bank. 2006a. ?First Poverty Reduction Support Credit.? Implementation
      Completion Report. Report No. 35462
World Bank. 2006b. ?A Follow-up Study of ISP Schools?. (draft report).
World Bank, 2007a. ?Managing public finances for a new Nepal.? Report No. 43384-NP
                                         30

World Bank, 2007b. "Nepal: Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing (Grant)
      in the Amount of US$60 million equivalent for the Education for All Project."
      Washington DC, no. 41 346-NP.
World Bank. 2007c "Attaining the Health and Education Millennium Development Goals
      in Nepal South Asia: Human Development Sector", Report No 12.
World Bank. 2007d. "Community Managed Schools in Nepal: A trend in school reform."
      Final report. December.
World Bank. 2008a. "South Asia Region: Ending Poverty in a Region of Growing
      Contrasts." Regional Briefing, South Asia Vice-presidency, SecM2008-0232
      May 29.
World Bank. 2008b. "Honduras: Community-Based Education Project." Implementation
      Completion and Results Report. Washington, D.C.
World Bank. 2008c. "Tanzania: Secondary Education Development Program."
      Implementation Completion and Results Report, Report No: ICR0000744.
      Washington, D.C.
World Bank. 2009a. "Nepal: Community School Support Project", Implementation
      Completion and Results Report. No: ICROOOO 1025, March 23.
World Bank. 2009b. "Nepal. School Sector Reform Program: Project Appraisal
      Document", August 26, Report No: 50157-NP.
World Food Programme. 2006. "Small Area Estimation of Poverty, Caloric Intake, and
      Malnutrition in Nepal." [reports on CBS household survey], National Planning
      Commission Secretariat, Bureau of Statistics.
Yadav, Ram Prakash. 2008. "Relation between Literacy and Poverty." Poverty Outlook.
       PAF ,
                                                       31                                                Annex A


Annex A. Implementation of project components
Table A-1: Community School Support Project (Cr. 3808)
                                                                                                                  Outcomes
   Components/
                          Activities          Targets to be achieved              outputs                   Info obtained during
  subcomponents                                                                                                     mission
                  Grants for transferring     1SO0 schools             About 2035 of about 23.000       8000 schools were expected
                  schools to community                                 schools (according to ICR).      to be transferred to
                  management (about                                    The project funded transfer of   communities by the end of
                  US$1200).                                            1,746, rest funded by            2007
                                                                       Education for All Project
                  Supplementary grants        250                      335                              Matching grants for libraries,
                  (fully supported schools)                                                             computers, science labs
                                                                                                        introduced at midterm review
                                                                                                        (average NRS 82,000).
                                                                                                        Salary grants introduced,
                                                                                                        schools were required to
                                                                                                        monitor attendance of
                                                                                                        students and teachers and to
                                                                                                        recruit teachers competitively
                                                                                                        through a public ad
                  Out-of-school children's    7619                     17250                            Students need to catch up, but
                  scholarships                                                                          coaching classes were not
                                                                                                        found

                  Maintenance scholarships    1972 1                   42640                            The scholarship component
                                                                                                        was apparently successful in
                                                                                                        the primary schools, but less
                                                                                                        so in lower secondary and
                                                                                                        secondary schools.
                  Training NGOs, support      300                      About 146 NGO staff trained      Only a minority of the NGOs
                  organizations                                        in 6-day orientation programs    proved useful; a number were
                                                                                                        in fact private providers of
                                                                                                        services responding to
                                                                                                        demand
                  Customized teacher          1000                     Teacher support grants to        It is uncertain what the
                  training for instruction,                            1047 schools, 45%                customization options
                  community relations                                  achievement of the target        included and how effective
                                                                       (Household community             the training was
                                                                       survey)
                  Training civil servants     1000                     Unsure if target was achieved,   Impact unknown, district
                  and politicians                                      several workshops done           education officers not very
                                                                                                        knowledgeable about the
                                                                                                        program according to project
                                                                                                        files
                  Communication of                                     About 146 NGOs hired,            NGOs may be best for
                  policies to communities                              maybe 50-60 doing                mobilization of enrollments,
                                                                       acceptable work                  not really experienced in
                                                                                                        community school
                                                                                                        management
                  Orienting school            1300                     Total number unknown             In many cases only chairman
                  community members                                    Final US$200,000 of grant        and head teacher were trained
                                                                       spent on dialog with             Three-year terms mean that
                                                                       communities, that according      there must be a constant
                                                                       to the task manager consisted    training program for new
                                                                       of training                      committees
                                                                       Peer to peer networks and        81% of respondents found
                                                                       study visits to efficiently      visits effective
                                                                       managed schools in Nepal         78% subsequently prepared
                                                                       The networking activities        action plans
                                                                       were conducted in 17 districts
                                                                       involving 207 schools and
                                                                       458 participants
                  Staff supported for         10                       -Instead a study tour was        Assignments did not happen,
                  developmental                                        carried out in Latin America                    a
                                                                                                        the Ministry w s not
                  assignments                                                                           interested in sending staff to
                                                                                                        work in schools
                                                            32                                                     Annex A

                                                                                                                             Outcomes
    Components/               Activities                                                                               Info obtained during
   subcomponents                                    Targets to be achieved                  outputs
                                                                                                                              mission
 Monitoring and       Monitoring tasks were        US$699,600 PHRD               About US$633,206.18 ofthe        Impact evaluation not
 evaluation           financed by a PHRD           grant TF055146                grant disbursed for such tasks   completed by project end due
                      grant                                                                                       to poor quality of baseline
                                                                                                                  data
                      Provision of goods and                                     9 computers for the              There was to be participatory
                      consultants' services to                                   Department of Education          monitoring of changes in the
                      facilitate transfer of                                     faxes, computers in schools      school, but most of the
                      management of                                                                               schools did not maintain the
                      government-funded                                                                           required information as
                      community schools to                                                                        demanded by survey
                      communities                                                                                 instruments (New Era 2008).
                      Develop, by June 30,         Pension scheme became         According to the task team,      No effect
                      2004, a policy               Redundant after               communities had no interest
                      framework, acceptable tot    communities were              in providing pensions to their
                      the Bank to establish a      allowed to hire               teachers.
                      pension scheme for           permanent teachers
                      teachers of community-
                      managed schools
                      funded, in part, by
                      teachers' contributions
                      Adopt, by September 30,      If teachers did not           Legislation passed after the     No effect
                      2003, procedures,            perform, the community        expected deadline, but has not
                      acceptable in substance to   could request their           been implemented due to          Removal on transfers of
                      the Association, for         transfer.                     teacher unions' concerns         teachers for incompetence is
                      redeploying MOES-                                          about local biases               virtually unknown, despite
                      appointed teachers from                                    IEG mission found that few if    committee powers to do so
                      community-managed                                          any teachers have been
                      schools based on requests                                  removed for incompetence or      Incompetent teachers may
                      from relevant                                              absence                          still teach or be absent
                      management committees                                                                       extensively
                      within six months from
                      the date of such request
                      Adopt, by December 31,       Formula shall be revised      Block grants adopted, but        To address inequitable
                      2004, a regulatory           on a bi-annual bases and      formula not clearly developed    distribution of resources the
                      framework, acceptable in     include, inter alia, taking   or updated                       government has introduced
                      substance to the             into account the student                                       per capita financing for
                      Association, for formula-    enrollment.                                                    salaries in addition to the
                      based government-                                                                           existing per capita financing
                      provided block grants                                                                       for non-salary costs.
                      funding to eligible
                      schools.
                      Adopt, by October 3 1,                                     Not done                         The effects of delayed and
                      2003, procedures,                                          Budgets are sent three times a   limited payments on teacher
                      acceptable to the                                          year, always delayed, so         performance are unknown
                      Association, for                                           teachers are paid every four
                      releasing grants to                                        months.
                      community-managed                                          Community hired teachers
                      schools on an advance                                      ought to be paid monthly if
                      basis to ensure that                                       communities have sufficient
                      teacher salaries are paid                                  resources
                      in a timely manner
Source: Project documents and information obtained during the PPAR mission
f4
3
E
4




     ??
     s
     0
     4
     .-
     Y
     cd
     rn

     (u

     8
     00
     vi


m
m
     2
     m

     m
     m
     2
     1
     0
     m
     -.
     2

     (u
     m
     z
     P
     v,
     m
     (u


     vi
     m
     m
     13
     z
f4        Y
          m
3         e
E
4
               F
               0
               0
               cu
               z
                6.




               z
               .I



               p3
               Q)
               .?;
               -z
                0
               a
               a
               1
               m
               L
               Q)



          -0
          8
     d
     Q
     3
     z
     El
     .I


     z
     c
     u
      ,
     1
d    a
M    E

     c,
     v)
     v)
     Q)
     c,
     c,


     1
     Q)


     5
     +
     Q
     c,
     8
     a
     1
     c,
     m
     m
     1
     0
     .I
     L
     *
     Q
     43
      0
     z
     L
     8
     ..
     m
     cu
     Q)

     zi
     b
     E9
     pe
     2
     4
X
a2
E
4

                  0    r,
                  9    N




                  -
                  39
                  9
                       N
                       N




     m
     0
     0
     N
         2
         3
                  x
                  9
                       N
                       N
                            I




     N
     0
     0
     N
         39
         z        :
                  :    N
                       N




              R   R
                  10
                       d
                       N




         m             n
         e             N




                       ?
                       N




                            3
                            3




                       I
                                                           36
                                                                                                              Annex B
Annex B Table 5: Datasets with Test Scores Pertinent to Management Transfer
    Monitoring and                    Pertinent Design Features                                 Outcomes
    Evaluation Study
New Era 2005                     Selected sample of 80 transferred schools         Transferred and control schools were
Data collected May-October       and matched controls                              fairly similar; schools given
2004                                                                               performance grants (and their
                                                                                   matched controls) outperformed
                                                                                   others in some tests.
Full Bright 2008                 Cross-sectional survey of 300 primary             In English, Nepali, and math, the two
Student tests given in March-    schools                                           types of schools had differences of 1-
April 2008                       Contractor won bid for an `impact                 2 percentage points, with regular
                                 evaluation study'                                 schools often scoring higher.
Full Bright 2008                 Cross-sectional survey of 300 primary             In Nepali, teachers in the two sets of
Teacher tests given in March-    schools                                           schools had essentially the same
April 2008                                                                         scores (55.6 vs. 55 percent
                                                                                   respectively), whereas in English and
                                                                                   math, teachers of regular schools
                                                                                   scored better (41.2 vs. 44.8 oercent
                                                                                                               A


                                                                                   and 5 1.3 vs. 54. lpercent)
EDSC 2008                        Longitudinal monitoring achievement test          Schools formally transferred to
Tests given in 2008              analyzed data cross-sectionally based on          community management scored 1.9-3
                                 community management type. No baseline            percentage points over regularly
                                 data were compared                                managed schools
Pilot impact evaluation          Random sample of 80 non-transferred               There is no formal report on the
baseline and additional data     schools from six districts; 40 were               results of the pilot - only a
collection                       randomly "treated" with NGO advocacy              preliminary powerpoint presentation
Baseline December 2005-          and 40 were not. The purpose of the pilot         (that does not control for self-
February 2006, follow-up tests   was to ascertain how many schools were            selection of communities) and a
in August -November 2007         likely to transfer in communities with            single table in a research proposal for
Data collection by New Era;      advocacy, as input into the design of a           the larger study that shows results for
results disseminated at a        much larger research project. Both this           only four variables, but controlling for
World Bank workshop in May       pilot and the larger project were designed to     self-selection into the transferred
2008.                            use the random assignment of the advocacy         group (Chaudhury and Parajuli 2009).
                                 as an instrumental variable to obtain             The latter shows higher TIMSS
                                 unbiased estimates of the impact of the           Science Test scores in the 5`h grade, a
                                 transfer (eliminating the self-selection bias).   higher grade 5 promotion rate, a
                                 Over 18 months, 15 of the 40 schools in the       higher net enrollment rate, and higher
                                 treatment group receiving advocacy elected        community participation in daily
                                 to formally transfer, compared with 5 of the      school affairs in transferred schools.
                                 40 control group schools. Dataset collected       However, only the test scores are
                                 with Education for All Fast track Initiative      statistically significant; since the
                                 funds                                             standard errors have not been adjusted
                                                                                   to take into account the clustering of
                                                                                   the sample, the significance is likely
                                                                                   overstated. Results for most of the
                                                                                   variables collected (including math,
                                                                                   Nepali, and English tests in grades 1,
                                                                                   3, and 5 ) were not shown. Because of
                                                                                   the small sample size of the pilot
                                                                                   (only 80 schools), most differences
                                                                                   would not be expected to achieve
                                                                                   statistical significance. That is why
                                                                                   the larger study was launched
                                                                                   (below).
                                                                                   As none of the schools had yet elected
                                                                                   to transfer, all of the test scores are
                                                                                   for non-transferred schools. Test .
                                                                                   scores could not be compared with
                                                                                   earlier datasets
                                                       37
                                                                                                      Annex B
Annex B Table 6: Number of reported schools by typ e and level 2006-07
                                       Lower                        Higher
  Types of schools        Primary
                                     secondary Secondary          secondary
Community aided           20,084        4,3 14        2,627            129
Community managed            1,896       345           143             42
Community unaided          2,239        2,073          893             510
Institutional                3,106      2,147         1,555            194
        Total             27,325        8,879         5,2 18           875
Source: MoES Flash report 11; Formally transferred schools are designated as `community-managed' in comparison to
others that are `community-aided'



            School type               Nepali      English      Math           Social     Science   Health
                                                                             Studies
Community School                        43.8        35.6        30.4           52.3        47.1      46.5

Formally Transferred School             45.1        37.5        33.4          55.0         49.2      49.4

Difference in points                     1.3         1.9        3.0            2.8         2.1       2.9




                                          Communities used finds for the following proposes
Resources         Physical      Instructional  Loan in          School         Teacher        Land            Maintenance
                improvement     improvement      high        construction       salary      purchase
                                               interest
CSSP            25 (17.2%)       76 (52.4%)   10 (6.9%)       18 (12.4%)      11 (7.6%)     2 (1.4%)            3 (2.1%)
Grants
Local           66 (50.4%)       15 (1 1.5%)      3 (2.3%)      36. (27.5%)          11 (8.4%)
Resources
                                            39
                                                                                  Annex C

Annex C. An Ongoing Impact Evaluation of the Formal
Transfer of School Management in Nepal
        In late 2005, researchers launched an impact evaluation to compare the
effectiveness of primary schools whose management was formally transferred to the
community with primary schools whose management had not been formally transferred.
The research design took into account the voluntary nature of the formal transfer by
randomly assigning a sample of schools that had not yet been transferred to an
"intervention" that consisted of an advocacy campaign, providing information to
communities and assistance in submitting the application for formal transfer. The
schools in the "control" group did not receive the advocacy intervention, while those in
the "treatment" group did. However, the design recognized that in both the treatment and
control schools/villages, some will choose to participate in the transfer and some will not.
This created four groups - control schooldvillages that did not transfer, those that did,
treatment schools/villages that did not transfer, and those that did. The random
assignment of the advocacy program served as the instrumental variable allowing
identification of the impact of the transfer, separate from the factors leading to the self-
selection of communities into the program.62

        The evaluation will measure the impact of the formal transfer of school
management to communities on teacher absenteeism, teacher quality, parental and
community participation, enrollment rates and learning outcomes, and the equity impacts
of the intervention, among others. While the design should allow an unbiased estimate of
the impact of the formal transfer to community management, the sample of schools and
communities was selected from among the schools that had not yet transferred as of
2005, which may be systematically different from those that transferred earlier. The
evaluation will measure short-term impacts of the formal transfer, but not long-term
impacts or sustainability, nor will it assess the impact of the "intensive support" offered
to some of the schools in the CSSP.




62 Chaudhury and Parajuli 2009
                                                          41
                                                                                                            Annex D

Annex D. Basic Data Sheet
COMMUNITY SCHOOL SUPPORT PROJECT (CR.                             3808)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                       Appraisal           Actual or              Actual as % of
                                                        estimate        current estimate         appraisal estimate
                                                         (PAD)               (W)
Total project costs                                       5.18                  5.69                     109%
Loan amount                                                 5                  5.3663                    107%
Cancellation                                                                     0


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (CR.3808)
                                            FY04        FY05         FY06        FY07          FY08
                              .~                                              ~-~~
Appraisal estimate (US$M)             1.5                3.8          5 .O
(PAD)
Actual (IJS$M) (SAP)                  0.8                1.9           3.1       4.3          5.3
Actual as % of appraisal             54.7%             49.2%          62.4
Date of final disbursement: 10/16/200864


Project Dates
                                                        Original (Forecast)                   Actual (Actual)
Concept Note                                                   0312712003                        03/27/2003
Negotiations                                                   0611212003                        06/09/2003
Board approval                                                 0612712003                        06/30/2003
Signing                                                        0712 112003                       07/25/2003
Effectiveness                                                      NA                            08/28/2003
Closing date                                                   09/30/2006                        09/30/2008


Staff InDuts (Labor Costs: amounts in US$ million)
                                   FY03        FY04       FY05        FY06       FY07        FY08       FY09      Total
Preparation                          0.2        0.02                                                               0.22
AppraisallNegotiations               12.2                                                                          12.2
Supervision                                      9.4       29.1        12.0       10.6        5.3        2.5      68.9
ICR                                                                                                      4.0       4.0
Total                                12.4       9.42       29.1        12.0       10.6        5.3        6.5      85.32




63 Difference in appraisal amount and actual could be attributed to the fluctuation of the exchange rate between the
US$ and the NPR. There is no explanation in the ICR regarding that increase in the actual amount.
64 Special Account documented.
                                                   42
                                                                                      Annex D


       Names                     Title                      Unit   I   Responsibility/Specialty

 Rajendra Dhoj Joshi    Sr. Education Specialist        SASHD          Task Team Leader
 Susan E. Hirshberg     Sr. Education Specialist        SASHD          Education Specialist




I SushilaRai           I Program Assistant         I   SASHD       I   Team Support
                                                          43                                                        Annex E

Annex E. Borrower's Comments




                                                                                                         Fax   1   4271 $64
                                                                                                                   4211165

                                                                                                    F
                                                                                          MfNiSTRY O FLNANCE
                                                                                                 Singhadurbar
                                                                                                         ~ R u
                                                                                             K ~ T ~ ~ A NEPAL ,


      Mr. Viriod Thomas
      Director General                                                                      115 June 2010
      Evalriatian
      Independent Evaluation Group
      'rhe World Hank
      Washington DC

      Lkar Mr. 'I liomas,

      This is with reference to our letter of 20 Jutre 2010. Further rcference is made LOqcliir Draft Project
      Pcrfomiance Assessment Report (C'ommunity School Support Prqcct. CR. 3808) of 23 June 20 I O

      In this connection, 1 now wish to request you 'to kindly consider oiily pnrn 1-1, arid para 6-8 as Bonowcr's
      Cmimcnts. They are;

      I     Ihe Got eminent of Nepal believes h a t 5oine ol the contents cif the report n c d tiiore rrseasch and
           credible analysis without wlirch the credibrlity 01. the icpon Iias k e n tiixdcnnincd. The 1L.G tcam
                                                                                                                   .
           that carried out the evaluation ririd wrote the report mixed up t b w d i m i c t elcmontc i n onc. i.c thc
           issue of Bank's program rnanagcnicnt and the principles of cnmiiiutritk tiiaiiagemciit oi basic
           scr~icessuch as education, The documerlt nlmost rcstk :I$ i f thc IlG I~ad eaiicludcd that
           Corninunity Management does not work and i s trjiiig to prove the mne.

      2     The Government does not hace a problem with zhc I                 nning tho !Link toam's pcrfoiriiance
            in   ternis of cvaltiating this program and develop~rlga knuwlcclgc base ~ 1 Itit: brsis of this L.IL.
                                                                                                1
                            Goverriinetit rtrttnglq diwgrees with sane of the liiies in tlic docuinent that questic~iii
                            ce of "cornmunit> manngenlei~t"as a srraleg> ~hiottgha huriictllq curricd aut %.tiid).
                                                                                        le\ cl dcvelopmeiit activities

                                                                                ecoininctided rti:tt the school
           qystom bo handed over to thc re\pccti\ c commuiiitroa b o 115 ti) indhc p h l i c ' expenditure on
           education effectikc and producttve School edticatlort cariiiot bc madc cffkcii) e ~ , i t h i \ t makiiig
                                                                                                             ~t
           teachcrs rtcwiiiitabie t o the purents and students

     3                                                                                           ..
           Cominriizity Management was, thwcrore, a government strategy to which thc Bank later suhscribed
           to and the PPAR's mandate cannot extend to questionill$ thc Government's strategy. I here 8R


                                                             1
                                                            44                                                          Annex E



                                                                                                 Tel No    1   42 11993
                                                                                                               42 11867
                                                                                                               4271801
                                                                                                               -12"1837
                                                                                                               4211748
                                                                                                               42'1826
                                                                                                               42?1775
                                                                                                               .!97:e13

                                                                                                     Fax   j 4% 1Ill65
                                                                                                             42
                                                                                                                  7 63




                                                                                             Singhodurbar
                                                                                         AT^^^^^^, NEPAL
        numerous in%mxs of this in the documcnt and these mtist be purged before this document                     IS
        released.

4.     Communirj management was found highly strcccssful in foresiiy cnnservutioii and developtneat
       and in other focal I c d development works durtog the pcriod of intense conflict in Nepal In fact,
       cominimity management o f hasic services is the most resilicnt forin of dcvetopincnt delivery ti1
       confl rct-a Keeled societ).
                                 ~




5      Thc (;ON decidcrd to hand over tlie school iiiniiaganent to coitmiinities B'J its policy stance This
       \\as rnttiated wtthout anticipating any exlcrtial assistance. The Rdnk came later, tlnd then came host
       of other donors supporting the riwpleiiient,iliciii of the idea. Wh) did not ItG team iiiquire with
       otliar donors iii the Education SWAp? Wcrc thcy illso "convinced t?j thc Rank"? This policy would
       hace been iniplerncnted even H ithotit any cxtarnai a m x e . Fui-thcrmore, the GON has not
       wavcretf rronl this strategy over the past decadc and do not intend to move mas) from this in the
       corning >ears a$ well. For the Mi iepoit to quemon this Etrategy. and not t l i i 12rznk'~perfonname
       in measurtng, monitoring and learning from the LlL, 1s rotally u n i ~ ~ ~ e p t t ~ b k helreie t l i d it
                                                                                           We
       dcriionrtratcs the author's cvinplere lack of undcrsfaiiding of the p - 0 ~ ~ 5 5      and inadequate
       consultations with the concerned stahLholders i h d Icd us to where     are at prescnt.

6       I'he report is fraught with unconiiected statcmeiiis that wen1 to portraj a w i o i i s problem uith
       regorth to community rnanagernetrt t lowe\er, the report itself fails 10 offci %ill> serious evidence of
       the saint problem The authur i s wily suggesting that this could be a problcm, hut offers little i n the
       %a) of evidence.

7 , Cornmutiity management is a Iong-tGrai 51rate o f tlie Go\ enimciit - ne ackiiowledpc that tlicre IC.
    alwa!s inmn for impro~enientshut the sclcc e, often unsubst.uitiated and biased prcscntalion of
    cvidcncc in the report seems to suggcbt that h e PPAK team has an ageiida agciinst cornmwity
     ITIdlkigC~lC~l~


With bcqt q a r d l ; .
                                                                                           p,   Yaurs siticerely,




cc
Ms. S . Goldrnsrk
Country IJirector
The World B a l k NEPAL

                                                        2
