                                                                                                               94614
                                                                                                        September 29, 2009



                                                                   Links:
                                                                   - What is IDA?
                                                                   - Our Work in Nepal


                                                                   More on Nepal:
                                                                   - Borrowing History
                                                                   - Data & Statistics
                                                                   - Research
                                                                   - Contact Us




Nepal is a small, landlocked but relatively populous country in South Asia, with about 28 million
people. Its mountainous topography— includes Mt. Everest and eight of the world’s ten highest
peaks—gave rise to a rich diversity of geography, religions and culture. By the early 1950s the
country had only 22 high schools, of which 20 were community built, financed and managed.
Successive governments continued this model for many years, treating education as a
partnership with local communities. In 1972, however, the government took over more than 8,000
schools. Because of the country’s remoteness and diversity—and weak governmental capacity—
results were disastrous. Notwithstanding the lofty goals of the “New Education System,” teachers
regularly abandoned classrooms, textbooks vanished, and quality plummeted. Finally, in 2001,
Parliament passed new laws to transfer schools back to community management. But 30 years
of neglect had taken a heavy toll. Literacy rates were 52 percent, compared to 58 percent in
South Asia and 61 percent among low-income countries around the world.




The IDA-financed Community School Support Project was launched in 2003 to help reform the
defunct public school system. The first step was to encourage communities to take back the
management of schools, aided by a one-time government grant. The second was to transform
the government’s role from being a provider to a facilitator of education. Both steps were
designed to increase the demand for and supply of education in tandem. Efforts to upgrade the
quality and relevance of the curriculum were supported by efforts to improve the capacity of
government agencies tasked with facilitating the system. Community-based organizations were
at the heart of the transition at the local level, while the overall effort was integrated seamlessly
into Nepal’s Education for All Project (2004–09) and a sectorwide approach (SWAp) that
harmonized donor support for education.




Net primary enrollment rose from 84 percent in 2003 to 92 percent in 2008. Gender parity
improved from 83 percent to 98 percent during the same period. More than 8,600 schools
transferred to community management. At the current rate, the goal is on track for
achieving community management of all public schools by 2015.


Highlights:
- Communities invested in their own schools. Significant local resources were unlocked, with
every rupee of government grants leveraging 1.5 rupees in community counterpart.


- Simple, fair financing was established. Introduction of per capita (child) financing made
resource allocation more transparent and equitable.


- Decentralization of teacher hiring has spurred accountability. Freezing the number of
government-appointed teaching slots and Introduction of salary grants has allowed communities
to recruit teachers locally and hold them accountable for classroom performance. The numbers
of government and community teachers are now comparable.


- Learning materials expanded. Purchasing textbooks through the market rather than directly
from a state-owned publisher has proved to be a more efficient supply mechanism.




In June 2003, IDA provided a US$5 million Learning and Innovation Credit to support the
Community School Support Project. The project was then mainstreamed into the Education for
All (EFA) program when it was launched in July 2004. IDA contributed a US$50 million credit
toward the cost of financing EFA. IDA provided an additional US$60 million grant to Education
for All in December 2007.




Nepal's education sector has highly harmonized donor assistance. Nine donors and government
have pooled funds to implement a sectorwide approach that covers both recurrent and capital
expenditures. Donor harmonization began with the implementation of the five-year Basic and
Primary Education Program II in 1999, when the World Bank Group, Denmark, the European
Commission (EC), Finland and Norway pooled resources into a “basket” to help the government
implement a primary education subsector development program. Building on that, a sectorwide
approach was adopted for the follow-on Education for All Program (2004–10). Initial funding
came from a few donors, including Denmark, the United Kingdom’s Department for International
Development (DfID), Finland, Norway and the World Bank Group. Other donors offered parallel
financing: the Japan International Cooperation Agency, UNESCO and the World Food Program.
The Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAid), the EC and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) later joined. To implement
Education for All, donors committed US$241 million, with IDA providing US$110 million, DfID
US$35 million, ADB US$30 million, Denmark US$28 million, the EC US$27 million, Norway
US$23 million, Finland US$14 million and UNICEF US$1 million.




Support has been requested for the School Sector Reform Program, which is designed to extend
reform coverage throughout the educational system, providing universal schooling through Grade
8 while upgrading quality.




Community School Support Project (2003–08)
Project documents


Education for All Program (2004–10)
Project documents
Ministry of Education | Department of Education




                                                  Last updated: 2009-09-29
