Report No. 872a-PH
Philippines                                                  FILE COPY
Appraisal of a Second Loan    FLCP
to the Republic of the Philippines
for Industrial Financing through
the Development Bank of the Philippines
November 5, 1975
Agricultural Credit and Development Finance Companies Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUXVALENTS
US$1           -a79.5
P1               0USt.1333
P1 million      - St3133O000
P1 billion    T-S$133 million
ABBREVIAX.!IsONTS
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
BOI      -   Board of 1nvestments
CB       -   Central Banik
COI      -   Commission on Audit
DBP      -   Development Bank of the Philippines
DOI      -   Department of Industry
GSIS     -   Government Services Insurance System
IFC      -   International Finance Corporation
IMF      -   International Monetary Fund
IPD      -   Industrial Projects Department
NEDA     -   National Economic Development Authority
PDB      -   Private Development Bank
PDCP     -   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
RFC      -   Rehabilitation Finance Corporation (DBP's predecessor)
SEC      -   Securities and Exchange Commission
SSS      -   Social Security System
FISCAL YEAR
July 1   JSale 30



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND LOAN FOR INDUSTRIAL FINANCING
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............. .............   i - v
I.  INTRODUCTION ..........................................    1
II.  THE PHILIPPINE ECONOMY ................................    1
III.  THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS .................   2
A. The Industrial Sector .             .                2
The Role of Industry in the Economy..          2
Industrialization Stragegy .      .           3
Policies and Incentives.                       3
Industrial Investment .         .             4
B. The Financial Sector .             .                 4
Overview. .                                    4
Financial Sector Development .     .           5
Policy Measures . .                            5
Interest Rates . .                             6
IV.  DBP - ROLE IN THE ECONOMY ............................    7
Overall  Operations  .........................  7
Economic  Impact   ............................  7
Promotional  Role  ...........................  8
Other  Activities   ...........................  8
V.  DBP - INSTITUTIONAL CHARACTERISTICS ..................   9
Charter and Ownership ......  ................    9
Board of Governors ......   ...................    9
Organization .........  ......................    9
The Industrial Group ......  .................    9
Management ..........  .......................    9
Staffing ......                               10
Industrial Project Appraisal ..... ..........   10
This report was prepared following a field appraisal of DBP by Messrs. P.
Mistry, A. Gros, J.B. Shim and R.C. Thorell (Consultant) in May 1975.



-2-
Page No.
Industrial Project Follow-up ............. ..   11
Operating Policies ....... ..................   11
Procurement and Disbursement ...............   12
Lending Operations     ...............   12
Guarantee Operations ......................   13
Investment Operations ......................   13
Financial Position .........................   13
Financial Performance ......................   15
Portfolio Quality ..........................   16
Capital Structure      ...............   18
Foreign Exchange Risk ......... .......18
Reserves Policy   .      ............. ..       19
Audit ......................................   19
Internal Reporting ...      ..........   20
Projected Operations and Resource
Requirements      .................   21
Projected Financial Position and Performance   21
VI.   OBJECTIVES, JUSTIFICATION AND MAIN FEATURES
OF THE LOAN             .................   22
Objectives ........................   22
Justification         .     .     ...........   23
Main Features of the Loan ................ ..   23
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS ................. ..   25
ANNEXES
1   The Philippine Economy
2   The Industrial Sector
3   The Philippine Financial Sector
4   DBP's Board of Governors
5   DBP's Staffing Position as of March 31, 1975
6   DBP's Financing Operations
7   DBP's Financial Position and Performance
8   DBP's Portfolio Quality and Arrearages
9   DBP - Reserves Policy Statement
10   DBP Audit
11   DBP's Projected Operations, Finances, Resource Position
and Requirements
12   DBP's Interest Rates and Other Charges
13   DBP - Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures
14   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
No.  9981 - DBP - Organization Chart
No.  9984 - IPD-I Organization Chart



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND LOAN FOR INDUSTRIAL FINANCING
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
i.        The Philippine Government has requested a second Bank loan for
financing industrial investment through the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP). This report recommends a Bank loan of US$75 million
to cover a part of DBP's foreign exchange requirements for capital goods
financed under the project for FY76-77.
ii.       Following a sharp improvement in 1973 when the economy registered
an impressive 10% real growth rate, the successive shocks of the oil crisis,
rapid inflation and a recession in principal export markets caused the eco-
nomy to drop back to the underlying long-term growth rate of 6% in 1974.
Declining prices for its major commodity exports notwithstanding, the
Philippines continued to maintain a sound international reserves position.
iii.      The Philippines is placing heavy reliance on further industria-
lization to achieve its growth and employment objectives. The industrial
sector (mainly manufacturing) is the third largest in the economy. It
accounts for 30% of NDP, absorbs over 35% of total fixed investment but
employs only 15% of the labor force. The pattern of industrialization
until the early 1970's, was almost entirely import-substitution oriented;
its evolution having been encouraged by a restrictive set of protective
policies coupled with an incentives system aimed at directing investments.
in desirable directions. Philippine industrialization has also been capital
intensive and has made little contribution to increasing employment for a
rapidly growing labor force. Recent analyses suggest that the extant
policy regime may, in some respects, be dysfunctional for future industrial
development along soundly based lines. Government has, as a result, insti-
tuted a review of its industrialization policies to examine the need for
change. Investment in industry is expected to require about P52 billion
between 1976-80; the proposed loan represents about 1% of this amount.
iv.       The financial sector in the Philippines, although relatively
sophisticated, has not as yet developed adequate mechanisms for meeting
the demand for long-term investment funds. Its development in this
direction has been constrained by policies influencing the credit system
and interest rates. Following the Central Bank-International Monetary
Fund (CB-IMF) Joint Commission review of the banking system, the Government
has taken several actions to strengthen the financial sector. It has,
since this survey, requested follow-up studies to be carried out by the
Bank, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the IMF to provide
further guidance on policy measures required to assist the development and
functioning of institutions and markets for long-term funds mobilization.



- ii -
These studies would also examine the role played by the present interest
rate structure in influencing such development. With inflation under control,
effective interest rates on loans on-lent to sub-borrowers who bear the
exchange risk are estimated to be a real 8-10% over the maturity period of
the loan.
v.        DBP is the single largest institutional source of long-term funds
in the Philippines. It has, since its inception, approved financial assist-
ance totalling nearly US$3 billion, mostly to the industrial sector. The
sheer volume and diversity of its operations cause it to play a prominent
and unique role as the Government's arm for financing economic development.
The same reasons make it difficult to quantify precisely DBP's contribution
to development.  However ex ante and ex post evaluations carried out on spe-
cific samples of industrial projects financed by DBP suggest that these
projects yield economic returns of around 15%. DBP has recently been
instrumental in promoting a "countryside development program" aimed at
channelling a greater proportion of its resources into rural areas, and in
assisting the development of local private development banking institutions.
vi.       DBP is a wholly government owned institution whose overall
direction is entrusted to a 9-member Board of Governors which is chaired
by its chief executive and which includes four other full-time DBP executives.
Since its re-organization in 1973, DBP has entered a consolidation phase, con-
centrating its efforts on strengthening management and improving internal co-
ordination. It employs 2,800 staff, of whom 55% are located in its 35 bran-
ches and 24 agencies. The proposed loan would be handled by Industrial Pro-
jects Department I (IPD I).
vii.      Systematic project appraisal was introduced in DBP about four
years ago. Following an initial period of radical improvement, the pace
of progress in further refining and upgrading the quality of appraisal
has slowed in the last year, largely because of the loss of experienced
personnel in IPD-I who were transferred to strengthen other parts of the
organization. Follow-up practices are gradually being improved although
again the pace has been slower than expected earlier. DBP's management has
committed itself to ensuring that progress in appraisal and follow-up are
given high priority and will be improved to the satisfaction of the Bank.
At negotiations DBP outlined a program of staffing, training and control
which was aimed at achieving significant improvements in IPD-I's project
appraisal and supervision. The program was considered entirely satisfactory.
Procurement and disbursement procedures are sound and ensure that purchases
from sub-loans are made with due regard for economy and efficiency.
viii.     With the increased availability of funds from the Bank, the
Central Bank, Treasury and other sources, DBP's lending operations reached
the unprecedented level of P2.4 billion in FY75, compared to P293 million
in FY74 and P234 million in FY73. In addition to a major and unusual increase
in its hotel financing operations, lending increased in every other sector,
especially industry. The increase in lending took place at the expense of
DBP's guarantee operations which declined from P2.8 billion in FY74 to P0.9



- iii -
billion in FY75. Equity investment approvals, mainly in government enter-
prises, totalled P212 million, a much higher level than in the previous two
years.
ix.       As of June 30, 1975, DBP's total assets were just over P7.8 billion,
and it had outstanding contingent liabilities of P3.5 billion. Its finan-
cial position was basically sound as was its liquidity position. However,
DBP has recently been financing long-term assets with short-term liabilities,
a situation which if uncorrected could weaken its financial position and
jeopardize its future ability to service debts. During negotiations assur-
ances were obtained that Government would bolster DBP's long-term resource
base. Agreement was also reached on a total debt/equity ratio limit of
10:1 for DBP. FY75 saw a decline in DBP's net income attributable mainly
to a decline in the level of collections (DBP records its income on a cash
basis) and a major depreciation charge on assets acquired through foreclosure.
To arrest further deterioration of its earnings performance DBP will need
to increase the level of collections and its rates and charges on loans and
guarantees. Agreement on these increases was reached at negotiations.
x.        A low level of collections and the magnitude of its arrearages
continue to pose the main financial problem for DBP. Over the past year,
however, DBP has achieved a measure of success in reducing its arrears.
As of June 30, 1975, 60% of the number of accounts were in arrears with
overdue principal and interest amounting to 15.5% of the outstanding port-
folio. Steps are now being taken toward reducing arrears by rescheduling
those major accounts on which such action is warranted and overdue. Follow-
up and collection practices are also gradually being improved. To bring this
persistent and serious problem under control, agreement was reached at
negotiations that DBP would inter alia: reschedule all accounts in need of
such action by March 31, 1976; increase penalty charges; and intensify
follow-up and collection efforts. The Government also agreed that it would
protect DBP against the risk of default or loss on all accounts which DBP
finances at the Government's request. Furthermore, in view of information
available about the quality of its portfolio, agreement was reached on DBP's
making adequate provisions for reserves against losses on doubtful accounts.
xi.       At present, DBP carries the full foreign exchange risk on a
substantial part of its direct borrowings. Adequate provision has not been
made for possible losses arising from currency fluctuations. At negotiations,
agreement was reached on creating a special reserve account to provide for
such losses.
xii.      An evaluation of DBP's audit was undertaken in conjunction with
the appraisal of the proposed loan. TLe audit, carried out by the Commission
on Audit (COA), was found to be thorougl- as far as the testing of detailed
transactions went. However, it was found to be lacking in analytical content
and did not include an analysis of DBP's portfolio. Nor was it sufficiently
supported by adequate documentation. Moreover, audit reports and the auditor's
certificate in DBP's published annual reports provided unqualified opinions
and did not point out: (i) that DBP's financial reporting differed in



- iv -
material respects from "generally accepted accounting principles" as applied
in the Philippines; and (ii) the audit was not conducted fully in accordance
with "generally accepted auditing standards". These findings were fully dis-
cussed in the field with DBP's management and COA staff who expressed a
willingness to incorporate necessary changes in present auditing practices
and appropriate qualifications in audit reports to meet the Bank's require-
ments. At negotiations, agreement was reached on the following: (i) sub-
mission to the Bank of an annual audit report on DBP prepared in accordance
with the Bank's "Illustrative Form of Audit Report for Development Finance
Companies"; (ii) inclusion of a thorough portfolio analysis in COA audit
reports; and (iii) submission to the Bank of a separate audit of DBP's
portfolio carried out by the Central Bank, within four months of the end
of each fiscal year.
xiii.     In meeting 50% of DBP's foreign currency resource requirements
over the next two years the proposed loan would address two priority objectives:
(i) the transfer of needed resources to assist in developing the Philippine
industrial sector; and (ii) continuing the process of institution building
begun with Loan No. 998-PH. Under that loan, DBP has, as of July 31, 1975,
financed 15 projects with economic rates of return varying from 11% to 80%
and with internal financial rates of return of between 14% and 50%. 1/ Ex-
perience with the proposed loan is expected to be similar. As before, and
in accordance with the Government's wishes, the proposed loan would be made
to the Government and re-lent to DBP on essentially the same terms. A
fixed amortization schedule of 18 years, including four years grace is re-
commended. Sub-borrowers would be charged the maximum nominal interest rates
presently allowed 2/ (resulting in estimated effective rates of 18-20%
allowing for administrative charges and foreign exchange risk).  The foreign
exchange risk on currencies of procurement would be assumed by sub-borrowers,
with the residual risk between currencies of procurement and of obligation
being borne by the Government for a fee of 0.75%. To ensure the dispersal'
of loan proceeds over a reasonably large number of industrial sub-projects,
a ceiling of US$5 million would apply to any sub-loan under the proposed
loan. The free limit of US$1 million set under Loan No. 998-PH would be
maintained for the present.
xiv.      At negotiations, agreement between the Bank, DBP and the Government
was reached on the following measures:
(a) within the 5-year rollover period (1975-80) of the
present securities repurchase agreement between the
Central Bank and DBP, Government would ensure that
long-term financing on suitable terms was made available
to DBP for its hotel projects (paragraph 5.14);
1/   Both economic and financial rates of return cited here were those
calculated at the time of sub-project appraisal.
2/   12% on loans or parts of loans secured by land and 14% for loans or
parts of loans secured by chattels and other securities.



v -
(b) The risk on all accounts financed by DBP at the behest
of the Government would be covered by the Government
(paragraph 5.18);
(c) Government would bolster DBP's long-term resource
position through additions to equity or through the
provision of long-term loans with maturities equivalent
to DBP's own sub-loans (paragraph 5.14);
(d) Government would convert P400 million in present
short-term holdings in DBP into long-term debt
with a maturity of at least 5 years (paragraph 5.14);
(e) DBP would increase its interest rates (within
ceilings presently allowed by the Monetary Board
for loans not covered by specific statutes), guarantee
fees, and penalty charges in accordance with an agreed
upon schedule (paragraph 5.15);
(f) DBP would review, and where justifiable, take
action to restructure all industrial accounts
by March 31, 1976 (paragraph 5.18);
(g) DBP would exert its best efforts to reduce arrearages;
it would also submit arrears data to the Bank on a
quarterly basis (paragraph 5.18);
(h) DBP's total borrowings and outstanding contingent
liabilities would not exceed ten times its equity base
(paragraph 5.19);
(i) DBP would make provisions for possible foreign exchange
losses (paragraph 5.20);
(j) DBP would adopt a reserves policy statement mutually
agreed with the Bank (paragraph 5.21); and
(k) an annual audit report on DBP prepared in accordance
with the Bank's "Illustrative Form" would be submitted
to the Bank (paragraph 5.22); COA's own audits would
include a thorough portfolio analysis; CB's-audits
would be submitted to the Bank; and in the event that
COA's audit reports for FY76 or beyond were found un-
satisfactory, the Government would take such steps
(including if necessary the appointment of outside
independent auditors) as to ensure that the Bank could
form a firm judgement on DBP's financial condition.






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND LOAN FOR FINANCING INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines (GOP) has requested further
Bank assistance for financing capital goods imports to expand the productive
capacity of the industrial sector. This report recommends a Bank loan of
US$75 million to the Government. The loan will be on-lent to ultimate
Dorrowers through the Development Bank of the Philippines.
1.02      The Bank has so far approved six loans totalling US$118.4 million
for on-lending through DBP for a wide variety of projects including grain
processing, livestock, fisheries, tree-farming, shipping and industrial
davelopment (including specifically small and medium scale industries).
¶.-n addition to the proposed loan, a loan of US$20 million for a second live-
sosick project, also to be financed through DEP, is due to be presented to
-:he Board shortly; field appraLoal for grain processing and fisheries loans
',_FS Laan completed.  A secoad loan for shipping may be appraised later.
9.33      The loans Intended 'oT agriculture, shipping and small lndus tries
6,ava been aimd speclfically at sector or sub-sector development and have
:,OL  1in geveral, focused on bee overall institutional development of DBPe
ffi..tentioa to this aspect under these lo&aS has been confined to ensuring
t.ha  DBP functioned efficiently in allocating and administering Bank funds
c.aswieled to target sectors.  Ilth the first development finance company
(D,TC) type loan (Loan No. 998-PH) through DBP, approved in May 1974, the
gradual long-term development of DBP into a sound, viable and efficient
inestltution was recognized as an explicit objective. The proposed loan,
the second in what is expected to be a series of DFC type loans, would
build on the foundations already established and would serve to strengthen
the close working relationship between the Bank and DBP.
II. THE PHILIPPINE ECONOMY -/
2.o1      SuLmary. Favorable commodity prices coupled with reforms in econo-
mic management and policy-making resulted in an abrupt turnaround in the
1/   The latest Bank economic report (No. 568-PH) dated November 7, 1974,
provides a more detailed discussion. A Basic Economic Mission visited
the Philippines in April-May 1975; its report is due to be issued
toward the end of the year.



-2-
Philippine economy in 1973. Compared with its lacklustre performance in the
previous decade, the economy grew by an impressive 10%. Since then it has
suffered the shocks of the oil crisis, rapid inflation and a worldwide reces-
sion which affected its export sector in 1974. These adversities notwith-
standing, the economy still managed to register 6% growth, returning to its
basic long-term trend. Throughout 1974 and early 1975, a sound international
reserves position was maintained. Recent economic developments in the
Philippines are discussed in Annex 1.
III.  THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
1/
A. The Industrial Sector
3.01      The Role of Industry in the Economy.  Industry (manufacturing,
mining and construction) represents the third largest sector in the Philip-
pine economy (after agriculture and services) accounting for nearly 30% of
net domestic product (NDP) in 1974, absorbing over a third of total fixed
investment but employing only 15% of the total labor force. Manufacturing
alone accounted for 25% of NDP in 1974 and for 10% of the labor force.
With its import substitution orientation through the fifties and sixties,
Philippine indutrialization went through two distinct phases. In the
early phase (1948-56) manufacturing output grew at rates of around 12%.
Later, between 1956-72, the growth rate dropped to an average 6% as easy
import substitution opportunities were gradually exhausted. In the early
1970's an export bias was introduced through the application of special
incentives, causing a resurgence in the growth of industrial output, which
peaked at around 11% in 1973. At the same time, non-traditional manufactured
exports grew from US$49 million in 1969 (when they accounted for 5.7% of
total exports) to US$200 million in 1973 (when they accounted for nearly 12%
of the total). While export orientation has broadened the market base for
further industrial development, it has also rendered industrial growth more
vulnerable to fluctuations in external demand. In 1974, (and the first
half of 1975) the share of manufactured exports as a percentage of the total
dropped to 10% although, because of price increases, their value rose to
US$250 million. Correspondingly, industrial output growth slowed down in
1974 to a level of 4.5% with major declines being registered in exporting
industries (wood, textiles and clothing). Over the long-term the Government
is placing heavy reliance on industrial expansion to provide the main impe-
tus for output and employment growth. In view of the past failure of indus-
try (and in particular manufacturing) to generate employment commensurate
1/   The Philippine industrial sector is analyzed in IBRD Report No. 280-PH
"Industrial Development Problems and Prospects in the Philippines",
dated March 19, 1974.



- 3 -
with levels of investment, the Government has taken measures to shift the
structure of production more toward labor intensive manufacturing in smaller
enterprises (paragraph 3.03). The characteristics of the manufacturing sector
are outlined in Annex 2.
3.02      Industrialization Strategy.  The Philippine Government is pursuing
a three pronged strategy for future industrialization. First, investments
are to be made in large projects which will: (a) extend downstream process-
ing of traditional exports (e.g. copper smelters, integrated pulp and paper
complexes) thus adding to domestic value-added; and (b) encourage domestic
production of intermediate goods (steel, aluminum, fertilizers) and capital
goods (shipbuilding and automobile manufacturing). Second, medium-large
projects are to be encouraged, especially those aimed at diversifying and
strengthening the non-traditional export base and allowing for more integra-
tion in existing industries. Third, increasing emphasis is to be placed on
promoting small industries which will address the objectives of employment
generation, regional dispersal of investment and production closer to raw
material sources and markets. The optimization of the investment mix between
these three types of projects may pose difficult choices in planning the
composition of future investment. Clearly none of the Government's objectives,
i.e. the expansion of the export base, reduced dependence on intermediate
goods imports or employment generation can be disputed. In the short-run,
however, there may be limitations towards maximizing any single objective,
for instance there is a practical limit to the quantity of resources that can
be efficiently absorbed by the small industry sector in the near future. in
this connection it is worth noting that a Bank assisted project which should
result in the investment of over P350 milliojz in small industry over the
next two years was approved in May 1975. The proposed project would be aimed
mainly at the second type of investment i.e. at export oriented manufacturing
and at encouraging desirable industrial integration.
3.03      Policies and Incentives.  The Philippine Government's policies
on industrial investment are reflected partly in the incentives it provides
through the Investment and Export Incentives Acts which are administered by
the Board of Investments (BOI). These incentives, mainly in the form of
deductions and exemptions from taxes and duties (Annex 2), are provided to
enterprises which undertake to engage in production activities specified
by the BOI's inLvestment and export priorities plans (these plans are revised
annually). Protection policies, applied both through the tariff system and
the imposition of direct import controls, play an even greater role in influ-
encing industrial investment. These policies were originally designed to
promote investments which would, over the long-term, yield the greatest
returns to the economy and ensure sound resource allocation. There is,
however, a growing body of opinion which suggests that both the highly
restrictive tariff and control policies and the system of incentives may have
outlived their usefulness and might even be counterproductive for the future
evolution of a sound and efficient industrial structure. The ILO Employment



-4-
Report, 1/ on the basis of its analysis, has advocated a major liberalization
of tariffs and import controls coupled with a phasing out of BOI applied
incentives to induce a greater level of competition, thereby lowering pro-
duction costs, increasing efficiency and enhancing export capability. The
ILO Report also expresses the view that BOI incentives probably serve to do
little apart from partially countering the distortions introduced by tariffs
and import controls, and that the very nature of the incentives seems to
promote capital intensity and, as a corollary, low capacity utilization. The
issues raised by the ILO report are being examined by the Bank's recent
economic mission. Furthermore, a continuous process of industrial policy
review has been instituted by the National Economic Development Authority
and the Department of Industry. Until the basic economic mission's views
on industrial policy have been formulated and fully reviewed within the
Bank it would be premature to discuss these issues with the Government.
3.04      Industrial Investment.  Investment in Philippine manufacturing
rose by 9% in 1974, the same growth rate as recorded in 1973. Applications
for planned investments through 1974 were more than double the level record-
ed in the previous year (Annex 2), with the most significant increase (360%)
being recorded in applications for direct foreign investment. Although
preliminary data for the early part of 1975 suggest the deferment of earlier
investment plans, there is little doubt that industrial investment in the
Philippines will increase substantially over the next 5 years. The prelimi-
nary industry sector plan developed by NEDA calls for total public and pri-
vate investment in manufacturing over the 1975-78 period to be around P 25
billion (in 1974 dollars) or roughly 27% of gross fixed capital formation.
The basic economic mission's estimate (based on firm investment plans for
large projects in the 1976-80 period) is closer to P 52 billion, or triple
the level invested between 1972-75. Four large projects (steel, aluminum,
petrochemicals, and wood processing) account for P21.8 billion or 42% of
the total amount. This level of investment will clearly place a heavy demand
on available resources and will necessitate a strenuous mobilization effort
for funds from both domestic and foreign sources. The proposed loan (which
accounts for about 17% of total estimated investment requirements over the
5-year period) would contribute toward the provision of needed resources on
appropriate terms.
B. The Financial Sector
3.05      Overview.  The Philippines has a relatively well-developed finan-
cial system, the institutional structure of which is described in Annex 3..
1/   "Sharing in Development:  A Program of EmEloyment, Equity and Growth for
the Philippines", ILO, Geneva, 1974. See especially Chapter 4, pp.
109-175.



- 5 -
The financial system's assets stood at P94.8 billion at the end of 1974.
Paradoxically, although the Philippine economy is relatively open and pri-
vate-sector oriented, the financial sector is dominated by Government insti-
tutions which account f6r roughly 51% of total financial assets. Its
overall sophistication notwithstanding, the system reflects the over-develop-
ment of institutions and markets dealing in short-term funds. To a large
extent, this has been a consequence of the regulatory environment governing
credit markets and interest rates which have tended to veer the activities
of the private financial system away from adequately meeting the large and
increasing needs for long-term private investment. This gap has been only
partially bridged by DBP and by the Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines (PDCP) which has so far been heavily dependent for its long-
term funds on the Bank Group and the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
3.06      Financial Sector Development.  The future course of Philippine
financial sector development needs to be influenced by changes in the pre-
sent policy environment and by the clearer delineation of institutional
roles. The present policy regime has tended to discourage (especially in
the private sector) the development of instruments and institutions which
attract savings of reasonable duration and channel them into long-term pro-
ductive investment. This is not to say that essential investment has, as a
result, been foregone or that resources have been misallocated, but that such
investment has probably been financed with a higher degree of risk and
probably at a higher cost to the economy through the roll-over of short-term
funds and through foreign suppliers' credits. Moreover, a large proportion
of such investments has not been subjected to the rigorous scrutiny which
normally accompanies long-term project financing and which might have in-
fluenced the nature, timing and size of major investments. Overall financial
sector development has also been affected by the pre-emption by public
financial institutions of a very large share of financial resources, thus
constraining the ability of the private financial sector to assist in meeting
private investment needs. With the policy environment creating a preference
for liquidity and distorting the risk-reward structure (especially in the
early 1970's) too heavily toward the short-term, the mobilization of long-term
funds to finance long-term investments has been simply unprofitable from the
viewpoint of private institutions. Government institutions stepping in to fill
the need for long-term funds have, as a result, grown rapidly (but unprofitably)
in a fairly unorganized fashion. The pressures of such rapid growth have
resulted in consequent costs in the efficiency of intermediation. These
factors have contributed to retarding the development of a sufficient variety
of financial instruments which would meet the diverse needs of investors; it
has also, as a result, impeded the development of smoothly functioning primary
and secondary markets for equity and debt, while stimulating the growth of an
extremely active money market.
3.07      Policy Measures.  The Philippine Government has been aware of
these problems for some time. Beginning in 1973, a series of measures
were taken to strengthen the financial sector through requiring consolida-
tion in certain areas and encouraging diversification in others. In late
1972, a comprehensive review of the Banking Sector was carried out by a
joint Central Bank (CB) and International Monetary Fund (IMF) Commission



-6-
which made far reaching recommendations on reform. Major changes have
since been made in augmenting CB's regulatory powers, strengthening the
capital base of commercial banks and in bank consolidation. The Bank's
recent basic economic mission included in its work a broad survey of
issues concerning financial sector development, focussing on the various
problem areas; i.e. interest rate changes, money market regulation, secu-
rities market development, credit allocation policy and a better functional
delineation between financial institutions. In addition, a series of
proposed studies are to be carried out by the Bank, IFC and the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) over the next 2 years at the request of the Philippine
Government. These include studies of: (i) the capital market, now being
carried out jointly by the Capital Markets Department of IFC and the IMF;
and (ii) the commercial banking system, to be carried out by the Bank's
Development Economics Department. When the findings of these studies are
known, the Bank Group should be in a better position to focus on specific
problems and address priorities in assisting with financial sector devel-
opment.
3.08      Interest Rates.  The interest rate structure in the Philippines
has over the last three years been pegged around a lending rate of 12% and
a deposit rate of around 9%. During the 1960's, lending and deposit rates
were three to four percentage points lower, but with inflation averaging
around 2-3% through the sixties, savings deposits received a real rate of
3-4% while on-lending rates were a real 5-7%. After the floating of the
peso in February 1970, the rate of inflation rose to around 10-15% between
1970-73 and peaked at 34% in 1974. Throughout this period the lending rate
ceiling was maintained at the benchmark 12% for secured loans under the
Anti-Usury Law of 1916, and following amendment of the Law, by the Monetary
Board's reluctance to raise the ceiling higher or remove it altogether. As
a result, both lending and deposit rates on transactions governed by the
Law were negative (in real terms) over the period 1970-74. 1/ However, with
inflation expected to level off at about 10% in 1975 and beyond, the effec-
tive rates paid by sub-borrowers under the proposed loan are expected to be
real positive rates of 8-10% if administrative charges and the foreign ex-
change risk are taken into account.
1/   The same period saw a phenomenal growth in the activities of a highly
organized but (until recently) not very well regulated short-term
money market on which most investment houses are dependent for their
revenues. Although confined to wealthy individual and corporate savers,
the money market over this period provided an outlet for funds seeking
to earn real returns and allowing pressing needs for funds to be met.
To prevent the possibility that continued development of the money-
market might adversely affect the emergence of a much needed long-term
capital market, the Government has, through the Central Bank, begun
to intervene more actively both through open market operations and
through stiffer regulations concerning rates, and registration of
money market instruments. As inflation abates, the Government is
increasingly likely to introduce further measures to assist capital
market development which it was previously unwilling to do in an en-
vironment of economic instability.



-7-
IV. DBP - ROLE IN THE ECONOMY
4.01      Overall Operations.  Including the operations undertaken by its
predecessor (the Rehabilitation Finance Corporation) 1/, aggregate approvals
by DBP of loans, guarantees and equity investments through June 30, 1975
amounted to P20.1 billion. Foreign currency guarantees accounted for
P11.9 billion (60% of total approvals), and loans, equity investments and
domestic guarantees for 36%, 3% and 1%, respectively. By major sectors, the
bulk of DBP's financing has gone to industry 2/. Including guarantees and
equity investments, industry has received P15.3 billion or 78% of total
approvals, agriculture 8%, real estate 8%, and other sectors, including
private development banks, the balance of 6%. As of June 30, 1975, DBP's
overall outstanding portfolio of loans, guarantees and equity investments
stood at over F8.0 billion, for nearly 180,000 accounts. DBP's financing
in the past two years accounted for about 13% of total fixed capital form-
ation in the Philippines; its industrial financing for 26% of total fixed
capital formation in manufacturing and mining. As of 1973, the share of
national productive capacity in various sub-sectors accounted for by DBP
financing stood at: 87% for cement manufacturing; 53% for pulp and paper;
87% for textiles (spinning, weaving and finishing); 41% for air transport;
and ranged from 32% to 73% for various mining and quarrying activities.
4.02      Economic Impact.  Given the sheer size and diversity of its finan-
cing operations, DBP's contribution to the development of the Philippine
economy is considerable. Unfortunately, due to a lack of comprehensive data,
it is virtually impossible to quantify this contribution and to precisely
measure its benefits. An ex ante evaluation of returns and partial economic
indicators on a sample of DBP-financed industrial projects does provide,
however, an impression of the economic benefits deriving from DBP's opera-
tions. In FY72-73, DBP provided financial assistance totalling P 592 million
(US$84 million) as part of a total investment of about P1.2 billion, in
45 BOI-registered projects. Of the total amount, P810 million represented
fixed investment. The additional direct employment expected to be generated
by these projects, when completed, was estimated at around 8,300. Net
foreign exchange earnings/savings to be derived were projected at US$50 mil-
lion annually. The ex ante average financial rate of return of these
projects was 20%, and the average economic rate of return, 15%. The average
cost of fixed investment per worker, about US$14,000, was close to the
1/   DBP was established by statute in 1958 as a successor to the Rehabili-
tation Finance Corporation (RFC), which was created in 1947.
2/   "Industry" includes manufacturing, mining, transportation and shipping,
electric power, agro-industries, etc.



-8 -
average for all BOI-registered projects 1/. The 15 projects financed so far
under the last Bank loan are estimated to have economic rates of return
ranging from 11% to 80%.
4.03      Promotional Role.  Within the Government system, the promotion of
investment in industry is the primary responsibility of BOI (Annex 2) with
DBP playing a passive role as financier. DBP has, however, been actively
engaged in promoting and financing broadly based development projects in
rural areas. Its "countryside development program", launched in late
1971 to provide credit for agriculture, handicrafts, cottage industries
and small and medium-scale industries in the provinces, has been expanded
to include low-cost housing, tourism, health and public utilities projects.
Emphasis is placed on agro-based, labor-intensive and indigenous materials
consuming industries along with traditional lending for the production of
cash crops. Under this program, DBP's branches and agencies have been
organized into "regional action groups" to undertake economic surveys and
identify potential projects. These groups have already completed a number
of feasibility studies, such as those on mango development and tuna fishing,
and more are under preparation. In addition, a series of information meet-
ings organized jointly by DBP and BOI/DOI have been held with representatives
of local government agencies, private entrepreneurs and community leaders,
and have so far elicited favorable responses. Agricultural loans have
accounted for the greater part of the financing approved under this program.
In response to Government's priorities, DBP has embarked on an ambitious
drive to increase both technical and financial assistance to small and medium-
scale industries (SMI) within the framework of a national effort coordinated
by the Department of Industry. In addition, DBP has been instrumental in
promoting the establishment of a regional network of independent private
development banks (PDBs), to which it provides assistance by way of capital
subscriptions, loans and rediscounts on preferential terms. PDBs are now
playing an increasingly important role in mobilizing local savings and utiliz-
ing them to meet medium-term credit needs for local production activity.
DBP has also played a major promotional role in establishing the Greater
Manila Terminal Food Market (now Food Terminal Inc.) which provides a use-
ful wholesaling service to smaller rural producers serving Manila and other
urban centers.
4.04      Other Activities.  DBP also devotes its resources and manpower to
various non-profit developmental undertakings. In 1973, it was instrumental
in establishing and helping operate the Development Academy of the Philip-
pines (DAP), a multi-disciplinary institute oriented toward applied research
in economic development. It has extended its training facilities to other
government-supported agencies, rural banks and private development banks,
and is engaged in various staff exchange programs with development banks of
neighboring countries.
1/   The results of this ex ante evaluation are roughly in accord with an
ex post evaluation carried out on a smaller sample of 11 projects which
suggested that actual results, at least for the partial indicators
yielded benefits commensurate with expectations.



-9-
V. DBP - INSTITUTIONAL CHARACTERISTICS
5.01      Charter and Ownership.  DBP was established in 1958 under Republic
Act No. 85 (RA 85) as an autonomous government-owned development bank with
a mandate to supply credit for reconstruction and for the development of
the agricultural and industrial sectors. In 1964, it was also given the
responsibility of assisting in the establishment of smaller private develop-
ment banks throughout the Philippines. The significance of its role in the
economy was underscored by the authorization of a capital stock of P3 billion
of which P1.77 billion was paid-in as of June 30, 1975.
5.02      Board of Governors.  Under its Charter (RA 85) the overall control
and direction of DBP rests with a 9-member Board of Governors directly
appointed by the President of the Philippines. The Charter requires five
Board members, including the Chairman (who is also chief executive officer),
to be full-time executive officers and to constitute DBP's top management
team. As shown in Annex 4, the present Board is not at full strength, with
appointments having yet to be made to fill two vacancies (one being that of
a full-time Governor). The present Board includes the Secretary of Industry
and the Executive Secretary in the Office of the President.
5.03      Organization.  DBP's present organization (Chart No. 9981) dates
back to September 1973 when major changes were made in the delegation of
functional responsibilities. The operating core consists of three broad
departmental groupings (Industry, Agriculture and Community Development)
each under the direction of a full-time Governor. A fourth grouping of
central support departments is under the direct control of the Chairman.
In addition, two other offices, Legal and Audit, are linked loosely to the
organization although these offices are under the functional jurisdiction
of respective independent bodies i.e. the Department of Justice, and the
Commission on Audit (COA). In the two years following the re-organization,
DBP has concentrated its efforts on consolidation. Noticeable improvements
in the functioning of individual departments and in inter-departmental
coordination suggest that these efforts are gradually paying off.
5.04      The Industrial Group.  DBP's industrial lending and guarantee
operations are carried out by three Industrial Projects Departments (IPD-I,
II and III), each of which is larger than most of the private DFCs associated
with the Bank Group. IPD-I and IPD-II deal essentially with loans to the
manufacturing sector, with IPD-I handling loans of more than P3 million and
IPD-II dealing specifically with small and medium-scale industry loans. IPD-
III concentrates on loans of any size to the public utilities, transportation
and industrial services sectors. Each of these departments has been the
focus of attention under the Bank's previous loans for DFC-type lending (IPD-I),
small industries (IPD-II), and shipping (IPD-III). The proposed loan will
again be handled by IPD-I (Chart No. 9984).
5.05      Management.  The present Chairman - Mr. Leonides S. Virata - has,
since his appointment in February 1970, retained firm control over the day-
to-day operations of DBP. He has in that period concentrated on strength-
ening DBP's management, and improving operational efficiency. Since the



- 10 -
re-organization, management at the department head level has remained fairly
stable. At the assistant manager and division chief level, however, the
situation has been more fluid with experienced staff being moved from strong
departments to bolster up other departments. The overall quality of manage-
ment throughout the organization has generally improved. IPD-I, which has
recently lost a number of experienced senior personnel to other departments,
needs further strengthening at the sub-managerial and section head levels.
5.06      Staffing.  As of April 30, 1975, DBP had nearly 2,800 staff, about
17% more than in December 1973. In that period professional staff grew by
over 30% while clerical and services staff declined slightly by 1.5%. Of
total staff about 1,250 (45%) are located at the Ihead Office (HO) with the
remainder dispersed in some 35 branches and 24 agencies. Professional staff
accounted for two-thirds of the HO positions, with about 55% of these engaged
directly in operational activity. There were a total of 520 authorized HO
positions unfilled as of April 30, 1975, roughly 220 of which represented
professional staff vacancies in operating departments (Annex 5). IPD-I had
a total staff of 62 as of April 30, 1975, or about 5% of the HO total.
Althot gh its professional staff complement had increased from 30 (on December
31, 1973) to 52, there were still 30 vacancies to be filled. In spite of
its adequate recruitment efforts, IPD-I has found it difficult to attract
staff with the requisite combination of experience and qualifications, mainly
because staff with such skills are in short supply and DBP, as a part of the
government system, cannot compete with the private sector on the same terms.
Consequently, heavy emphasis has been placed on recruiting fresh graduates.
While recognizing that such recruitment needs to be complemented with
sustained on-the-job and special training in project evaluation, DBP has not
as yet developed a systematic training program. Preliminary discussions
are being held with the Development Academy of the Philippines (DAP) on
providing such training (patterned on the EDI Industrial Projects Course) to
staff responsible for appraisal in the three Industrial Projects Departments.
At negotiations, DBP representatives outlined a program for strengthening
and augmenting IPD-I staff. This program was discussed thoroughly and found
to be satisfactory.
5.07      Industrial Project Appraisal.  Before 1970, DBP's project invest-
ment decisions were based almost entirely on an evaluation of the sponsor's
creditworthiness; there was virtually no analysis of a project's merits.
Since then distinct progress has been made. Systematic project evaluation
is now routine and its quality is improving gradually. With Loan No. 998-PH,
DBP began calculating economic rates of return for all projects with a total
cost of over US$2 million. The constant review of sub-project appraisal
reports carried out by the Bank since June 1974 suggests, however, that the
pace of improvement in appraisal has slowed somewhat in the last year and



- 11 -
some of the Bank's earlier criticisms 1/ remain valid. This can be attributed
partly to the fact that with the initial major improvements having been
made, further refinement and improvement have become increasingly difficult.
Also, the loss of experienced staff and the need to train new recruits have
affected the momentum of progress. During the course of its field visit,
the mission reviewed in detail with IPD-I its appraisal of four sub-projects.
Th-is effort, together with the continuing dialogue on each sub-project sub-
ject to the Bank's approval, is expected to result in further improvement in
project appraisal. DBP's management has reiterated its willingness to take
all possible steps in ensuring that future appraisals are fully satisfactory
to the Bank. These steps include staffing, training, closer supervision of
appraisal work, closer co-ordination with BOI, and where necessary an updating
of BOI's analysis, especially on market aspects. At negotiations, DBP
representatives discussed each of these steps thoroughly with Bank staff.
The arrangements made by DBP to improve its project appraisal capability
are considered satisfactory. In this connection it was agreed at negotiations
that the previously set free-limit of US$1 million would remain unchanged
for the present.
5.08      Industrial Project Follow Up.  DBP has taken a series of steps
toward systematizing and improving project follow-up over the last 15 months.
DBP staff have visited other DFCs with sound follow-up practices to study
their systems and adapt them for DBP's use. Borrowers are being required
to submit comprehensive reporting requirements and the frequency of plant
and site visits is being stepped up. Furthermore, detailed supervision re-
ports are being prepared and submitted for review by IPD-I management. How-
ever, progress in achieving improvements in project supervision has been
slower than expected. The discrepancy between expectations and performance
can be attributed to: (i) a possible overestimation of DBP's ability to
implement major changes in its follow-up practices; (ii) the staffing prob-
lem confronted by IPD-I; and (iii) the absence of adequate managerial and
supervisory strength in the follow-up section of IPD-I. DBP's management
has now accorded highest priority to improving project supervision. A spe-
cific and more realistic follow-up work program has been drawn up by IPD-I,
the contents of which were discussed during negotiations and found to be
fully satisfactory. The program discussed is now being implemented by DBP.
5.09      Operating Policies:  Within the framework of its Charter, the
broad principles governing DBP's policy on industrial financing are covered
1/   In particular, these criticisms referred to reliance on descriptive
rather than critical analysis of management, marketing and technical
aspects of projects. DBP has relied heavily on information supplied
by BOI on these aspects and has tended to accept such information
without analyzing it critically. Following discussions with the Bank,
DBP has now undertaken to assume responsibility for all aspects of
project appraisal.



- 12 -
by a statement agreed upon with the Bank under Loan No. 998-PH (Annex 13).
The guidelines established therein are, from time to time, augmented or
underscored by specific Board resolutions which establish precedents when
particular projects are approved.
5.10      Procurement and Disbursement.  DBP's procurement procedures ade-
quately ensure that purchases from its sub-loans are made with due regard
for economy and efficiency. Sub-borrowers are required to submit at least
three (normally more) pro forma contracts and/or quotations for the equip-
ment being procured. An evaluation is carried out by DBP as to whether
equipment chosen by the project sponsor is suitable and competitively priced.
Disbursement procedures are adequate with funds being released against sup-
porting documentary evidence of purchase and/or following physical inspection
by DBP staff of progress in project construction and of project completion.
Prior to disbursements being made, DBP also takes steps to ensure that condi-
tions stipulated in its loan agreements with sub-borrowers have been adhered
to.
5.11      Lending Operations.  DBP's lending operations 1/ are analyzed in de-
tail in Annex 6. The first nine months of FY75 saw DBP's lending operations
rise to the unprecedented level of P 1.9 billion (about US$270 million). By
comparison, the volume of operations amounted to P293 million in FY74 and
P234 million in FY73. Although FY75 operations up to March 31, 1975 were
inflated by one-time approvals totalling P869 million for a number of hotel
and resort projects, the volume of operations excluding these projects still
amounted to P1.03 billion. Industrial lending increased by an annual rate
of nearly 800% to P639 million (compared to P95 million in FY74), agricul-
tural lending to P312 million (an annual rate of increase of 245% from the
FY74 level of P120 million), community development lending to P70 million
(vs. P47 million in FY74) and advances to private development banks totalled
P26 million (vs. P30 million in FY74). The rapid increase in industrial
lending was achieved despite a slowdown in overall investment activity main-
lY because the availability of increased resources from the Bank 2/, other
1/   The detailed analysis covers the first nine months of FY75, i.e. upto
March 31, 1975. Aggregate data have, however, recently been made avail-
able for the full year and show that total loan approvals for FY75 reached
'P 2.4 billion. Of this, P 750 million was accounted for by industry,
P 551 million by agriculture, P 1.1 billion by real estate investments
(including the hotel projects), P 34 million by local government projects
and P 39 million by private developuent banks.
2/   Bank loans approved in FY74 for industry and shipping totalled US$68
million or about P 480 million.



- 13 -
foreign sources 1/, the National Treasury and the Central Bank 2/ enabled DBP
to substitute direct lending for a substantial proportion of its guarantee
operations.
5.12      Guarantee _perations.  DBP's guarantee operations (analyzed in
Annex 6) declined substantially to P609 million in the first nine months 3/
of FY75 from a level of P2.76 billion in FY74. The decline was registered
entirely in its regular foreign guarantee operations (i.e. guarantee of
suppliers' credits for capital goods imports) with such guarantees dropping
from a total of US$397.4 million in FY74 to US$61.2 million in the first
nine months of FY75. Domestic currency guarantees increased from P12 mil-
lion in FY74 to P50 million in the nine months ending March 31, 1975 and
commodity credit guarantees increased from US$11.7 million in FY74 to
US$18.5 million over the same period. As of March 31, 1975, DBP's contingent
liabilities stood at P3.27 billion (about US$466 million) of which regular
foreign currency guarantees accounted for US$446 million or 96%.
5.13      Investment Operations.  DBP generally does not take up equity in
private industrial firms except through the conversions of options in its
loan agreements or as collateral to secure its loans. As a principal govern-
ment financial institution it does, however, take up equity in specific
government enterprises. As indicated in Annex 6, DBP made three equity in-
vestments in the first nine months of FY75 totalling P137.3 million 4/, a
much higher level than in FY74 or FY73. It also made purchases of PT2.2
million in long-term debt securities of other government institutions and
private companies as part of its securities management operations. Netting
out its sales of securities (both equity and debt), which totalled P109.1
million during the first nine months of FY75, DBP had, as of March 31, 1975,
an outstanding investment portfolio of P555.6 million of which P522.5 million
was accounted for by equity investments in private (31.3%) and government
controlled (68.7%) companies.
5.14      Financial Position.  DBP's financial position is analyzed in
detail in Annex 7. As of June 30, 1975, DBP's total assets stood at over
P7..8 billion (over US$1 billion) having grown at an annual rate of 48%
through FY75 from a level of P5.28 billion at end FY74. The structure of
DBP's asset base and of its offsetting liabilities is summarized as follows:
1/   DBP raised US$30 million from a consortium of commercial banks in 1974.
It had raised a similar borrowing of US$50 million in FY73.
2/   CB will cover 80% of disbursements on CB endorsed hotel projects
approved by DBP (paragraph 5.14).
3/   Data recently made available show that for the full year, DBP approved
guarantees totalling P926 million. Regular guarantee approvals totalled
US$100 million for FY75.
4/   For the full year FY75, DBP's total equity investment approvals amounted
to P192.0 million.



- 14 -
DBP: Financial Position as of June 30, 1975
(Amounts in P million)
Assets                         Amount         _
Current Assets /1              :         1,544.3        19.7
Long-Term Loans                :         3,679.3        46.9
of which Industrial                   (2,568.6)      (32.8)
Investments                    :           567.4         7.2
Acquired Assets                :         1,143.7        14.7
Fixed Assets                   :            65.1         0.8
Other Assets                               838.1        10.7
TOTAL ASSETS                       7_837.9        100.0
Liabilities
Current Liabilities /2                   1,173.1        15.0
Long-Term Debt                           2,425.3        30.9
of which Foreign Borr.                (1,458.7)      (18.6)
Time Deposits /3                         1,878.4        24.0
Other Liabilitiees                         285.2         3.6
Shareholders Equity            :         2,075.9        26.5
of which Provisions                      (32.1)       (0.4)
TOTAL LIABILITIES         :         7,837.9       100.0
Contingent Liabilities         :                3,514.6
/1   Including that portion of long-term loan amortizations
due within one year.
/2   Including that portion of long-term debts repayable
within one year.
/3   Time deposits likely to be rolled over for more than
one year.
As shown above, DBP's liquidity position is reasonably sound (current ratio
1.3) as is its present long-term capital structure (long-term debt/equity
ratio 3.8:1) 1/. An increasing proportion of DBP's long-term local currency
loans are, however, being financed with short-term funds, a situation which
should be corrected to ensure that DBP's cash flow is maintained at levels
which would ensure its future ability to service its debts. In particular,
a large part of the hotel financing program (paragraph 5.11) approved by
DBP in FY75 is to be financed by a one-year securities repurchase agreement
1/   Long-term debt being inclusive of contingent liabilities.



- 15 -
with CB, which would be rolled over for a minimum period of five years.
Furthermore, the approval of most of DBP's domestic currency industrial and
agricultural loans in FY75 has been based on an increase in DBP's short-
medium term holdings of deposits from the Treasury and other government
financial institutions. A part of these deposits (which are rolled over)
might be considered long-term, but there is never total certainty as to
the amounts that will be rolled over and how often rollover will take place.
DBP's management, therefore, recognizes the need to increase its long-term
domestic resources. In the first nine months of FY75, DBP issued P500 mil-
lion in medium term notes (5 years, 9%) and plans to raise another E1 bil-
lion between FY77-81 through a savings bond scheme. These actual and planned
efforts will go some distance toward establishing an adequate long-term
resource base. However, DBP will still need additional long-term funds to
support its existing commitments. Accordingly, at negotiations for the
proposed loan, assurances were obtained from the Government that: (i) suit-
able long-term lending arrangements 1/ will be made to support the hotel
financing program within the 5-year rollover period of the existing arrange-
ments; (ii) Government will take appropriate steps to bolster DBP's long-
term resource position by additions to equity or by the provision of long-
term loans with maturities equivalent to those of DBP's own sub-loans; and
(iii) P400 million in short-term Treasury deposits with the DBP will be
converted into a long-term loan with a maturity of at least 5 years.
5.15      Financial Performance.  DBP's net income for FY75 was P71.4 million,
representing a decline on an annual basis of about 21%. This is in sharp
contrast to the rising performance trend established in FY73 and FY74.
Since DBP's financial statements are prepared on an adjusted cash 2/ rather
than on an accrual basis, the decline in income reflected mainly a decline
in collections (in spite of the increase in its asset base), as a result
of adverse economic conditions which affected many of DBP's clients (Annex
7) and rapidly rising expenses, which included a depreciation charge of P42
million on DBP's increased portfolio of acquired assets. 3/ With interest
1/   The optimum arrangement would be a loan with a term which matches the
maturity date of the last hotel loan approved by DBP at an interest
rate of between 8-9%.
2/ DBP's financial reporting is based on due conservatism. DBP reports
all income on a cash basis except dividend income from securities which
is reported on an accrual basis. Interest expenses and financial
charges are reported on an accrual basis, but all other expenses on
a cash basis.
3/ Annex 7, paragraph 17.



- 16 -
income reported on a cash basis and interest expenses on an accrual basis,
the interest spread reflected on DBP's income statement is a negative one.
In judging its financial performance, it is essential to recognize that
DBP is a government-owned development-oriented institution and that its
earnings performance is not strictly comparable to private profit-oriented
institutions. Nevertheless, the continuation of the present income trend
on its loan portfolio can only increase DBP's reliance on continual govern-
ment assistance. Furthermore, annual support to DBP from the National
Treasury serves to constitute a continuing indirect subsidy for DBP's larger
industrial borrowers. Remedial action to ensure the soundness of DBP's
income earning capability would require a combination of several actions
including: (i) an across the board upward revision of interest rates
(within ceilings presently allowed by the Monetary Board for those loans
not covered by specific statutes), guarantee fees and associated charges
on all future loan accounts (Annex 12); (ii) radical measures to improve its
collections performance including better follow-up (paragraph 5.09); and
(iii) an increase in its penalty charges (Annex 12) on overdue accounts.
Agreement on these changes was obtained at negotiations for the proposed
loan.
5.16      Portfolio Quality.  The quality of DBP's portfolio and its arrears
position is analyzed in Annex 8. DBP has, for some time now, been exerting
efforts to reduce arrears on its loan portfolio; despite these efforts,
overdue accounts continue to pose the main financial problem DBP confronts.
Nevertheless considerable progress in reducing arrears has been achieved
over the past year (see table below). To an extent the problem is exaggerated
by overdues on several large industrial accounts which should have been
rescheduled earlier (about 65% of the actual arrearages are more than 2
years overdue). As of June 30, 1975, about 60% of the total number of
accounts were in arrears; principal and interest overdue amounted to P561.7
million, or, 15.5% of the total outstanding loan portfolio 1/. The principal
affected by arrearages amounted to P1,700.6 million or 46.8% of total prin-
cipal outstanding. Of the industrial loan accounts (which represent 4.4%
of the total number of accounts but about 58% of the principal outstanding),
72.5% were in arrears with principal and interest overdue on these accounts
amounting to P267.3 million or 12.7% of the industrial loan portfolio. Del-
inquencies on DBP's guarantee portfolio are also a major cause for concern,
with about 50% of DBP's guarantee portfolio being affected by arrears.
Defaults on guarantees have required DBP to advance about an average of P400
million a year over the last 4 years to honor foreign obligations. These
advances, which are immediately due and payable by clients, have also
accumulated extensive arrearages (Annex 8). Reflecting the Government's
concern, a Presidential Decree (P.D. 385) was passed in January 1974, re-
quiring government financial institutions (in particular DBP) to mandatorily
1/ Including trust funds but excluding advances on guarantees. If ad-
vances on guarantees are included the amount in arrears rises to
P1.11 billion, or 27% of the total portfolio,



- 17 -
foreclose on loans and advances for which arrears exceeded 20% of outstand-
ing obligations. The collection effort launched by DBP with the backing
of P.D. 385 was retarded by the economic downturn in FY75 which affected
several major Philippine industries (particularly the export dependent ones).
Confronted with the real prospect of several foreclosures causing lay-offs
in some major industries (notably cement, textiles, wood products), DBP
slackened its pressure on borrowers to repay.
DBP: Arrears Position as of June 30, 1974 and 1975
1974                    1975
Total Loans  Ind. Loans   Total Loans  Ind. Loans
No. of Accounts in
Arrears as % of
Total No. of Accounts:      56.6%        82.2%         60.0%       72.5%
Amount in Arrears as %
of Principal Out-
standing              :     23.5%        21.6%         15.5%       12.7%
Principal Affected by
Arrears as % of
Principal Out-
standing                    58.7%        59.5%         46.8%       44.1%
5.17      Judgments about DBP's arrears situation have to be tempered by
the recognition that: (i) the present problem is largely a structural one
with its origins being traceable to the peso devaluation in 1970; and (ii) as
the major financier of entire industries, 1/ DBP is highly vulnerable to
changes in economic conditions affecting these industries. Moreover, in
view of the wide repercussions of any actions it takes, DBP does not have
complete freedom of maneuver in dealing with its arrears problem. The
peso devaluation in 1970 caused outstanding obligations of foreign currency
borrowers to increase by about 70%. Given the economic conditions prevail-
ing, most borrowers were unable to service the additional debt along pre-
vious amortization schedules. With DBP's reluctance to reschedule loans,
these accounts simply kept piling up arrears. Under the terms of Loan No.
998-PH, DBP had undertaken to review the need for rescheduling of its indus-
trial accounts, on an account-by-account basis, at a rate of 30 accounts per
quarter. IPD-I started such a review of its accounts last year, but its
staffing problems prevented it from keeping to the review schedule. Between
July 1974 and March 1975, fifty-two accounts had been reviewed of which
1/   At present, DBP has provided, through loans and guarantees, more than
50% of the term finance needed to purchase the assets of the following
entire industries: textiles, wood products, pulp and paper, cement,
coconut oil milling, sugar, steel and shipping.



- 18 -
eighteen accounts were rescheduled, seventeen were put on an interim payment
plan (to determine their debt service capacity) and a further seventeen had
foreclosure proceedings instituted against them. Since the appraisal mission's
visit in May 1975, DBP has launched an all-out effort to review its portfolio
and to reschedule accounts where necessary. Discussions with DBP repre-
sentatives during negotiations confirmed that good progress was being made.
5.18      These efforts are steps in the right direction; they need to be
intensified. The essential and justifiable rescheduling of several major
accounts will go a long distance toward alleviating the arrears problem
and reducing the extent to which' it is unnecessarily exaggerated. At nego-
tiations, it was agreed that DBP would continue its portfolio review program
and restructure all accounts in need of such action by March 31, 1976, and
that DBP would adopt the following additional measures to control the
problem more effectively over the long-term:
(a) the system of recording and reporting arrears would
be improved as soon as possible, with DBP submitting
to the Bank reports on its arrears from June 30, 1975
onwards, on a quarterly basis within 60 days of the
end of each quarter;
(b) procedures would be established for timely reminding
and billing of clients for payment of accounts; and
(c) penalty charges would be increased across-the-board
in two phases, the first effective January 1, 1976
and the second as of June 30, 1977.
It was also agreed at negotiations that Government would protect DBP agains.t
the risk of debt service defaults and losses on any accounts which DBP
finances at the behest of the Government.
5.19      Capital Structure.  As indicated in paragraph 5.14, DBP's present
capital structure is basically sound. It has a strong equity base and a
large share of the current debt is held (or guaranteed) by the Government.
In future, the Government intends DBP to become a major institutional mobil-
izer of long-term foreign funds from both official and private sources. DBP
is also expected to play a larger role in mobilizing private domestic savings
on a long-term basis. With these considerations in mind and taking into
account the present quality of its loan and guarantee portfolio, its degree
of exposure to risk and vulnerability to adverse economic conditions, it
was agreed, at negotiations, that DBP's total debt (including short-term
debt and contingent liabilities) incurring capacity would be limited to ten
times its equity base.
5.20      Foreign Exchange Risk.  The foreign exchange risk on all guarantee
obligations and on most directly contracted long-term loans is borne by the
ultimate borrower and in some instances by the Government (Annex 7). How-
ever, DBP currently bears the full exchange risk on about US$107 million



- 19 -
equivalent of directly contracted commercial foreign borrowings. Actual
losses are charged against income by DBP. For the reasons discussed in para-
graph 5.19 above, agreement was obtained, during negotiations, on the creation
by DBP of a special foreign exchange loss reserve account. This account
would be built up, through the appropriation of 20% of annual net income,
to a minimum level of 15% of total foreign liabilities on which DBP bears
the exchange risk. It was also agreed that for all future foreign borrowings
contracted directly by DEP the exchange risk would be passed on to the
ultimate borrower. If this did not prove to be possible, the risk would be
borne by the Government for a fee (applied to the outstanding amount) which
would be passed on to the ultimate borrower.
5.21      Reserves Policy.  As of June 30, 1975, DBP's reserves and retained
earnings totalled P308.9 million of which P276.8 million was an unappropria-
ted surplus and P32.1 million was set aside as a reserve for contingencies.
DBP's charter does not specify a reserves policy and its auditors do not
specifically advise or comment on the adequacy of reserves. The only
guidance as to what appropriate levels of reserves should be is provided
by the Central Bank following its annual review of the quality of DBP's
loan portfolio. 1/ On the basis of information available on the quality
of its portfolio and a detailed analysis of its arrears position and vul-
nerability to foreign exchange risk, the present level of DBP's reserves
is considered inadequate. 2/ While the adequacy of DBP's reserves must be
viewed in the context of its resources being backed by those of the Govern-
ment, an inadequate level of reserves increases its reliance on Treasury
resources and reduces the level of its operating autonomy. At negotiations
for the proposed loan, agreement was reached on a reserves policy to be
followed by DBP (Annex 9) the main features of which are: (i) an adequate
provision for doubtful accounts shown on the balance sheet as a reduction
of related assets; (ii) the creation of a foreign exchange loss reserve
account in accordance with the recommendations in paragraph 5.20; and (iii)
the appropriation of the entire balance of DBP's annual net income, after
provision for share capital (20%) and foreign exchange losses (20%), to the
contingency reserve, until such a reserve was built up to at least 10% of
DBP's outstanding contingent liabilities.
5.22      Audit.  As was agreed under the terms of Loan No. 998-PH, an
evaluation of DBP's audit was carried out by a Bank-appointed auditing
expert who accompanied the appraisal mission. The evaluation (summarized
1/   The Central Bank's review, although fairly thorough, is usually issued
12-18 months after the end of a given fiscal year. For instance, its
final report and recommendations on the quality of DBP's portfolio as
of June 30, 1974, had not, as of July 31, 1975, been issued.
2/   The contingency reserve amounts to 0.35% of DBP's loan and guarantee
portfolio - a very low proportion considering the extent of principal
affected by arrears.



- 20 -
in Annex 10) established that the audit carried out by COA was quite thorough
in terms of transaction testing. However, it was deficient in the following
respects: (i) the audit did not include any analysis of the quality,
collectibility and (where essential) market valuation of major asset ac-
counts, in particular DBP's loans 1/; (ii) it was not sufficiently analy-
tical nor critical of management's financial policies and practices; and
(iii) it was not supported by working papers and documents which adequately
reflected the full nature of the audit work being done. Moreover, audit
reports and audit certificates issued by COA did not specify that DBP's
financial reporting deviated in some important respects from generally
accepted accounting principles as applied in the Philippines and that the
audit was not conducted fully in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. As pointed out in the evaluation report (Annex 10), present
practices also hindered the degree to which DBP's auditors could be in-
dependent. These findings were fully discussed in the field with DBP's
management and COA staff who expressed a willingness to incorporate neces-
sary changes in present auditing practices and audit reports to meet the
requirements of the Bank. The mission's recommendation that the auditor's
certificate be appropriately qualified was immediately accepted. At negotia-
tions, agreement was obtained on the following: (i) COA auditors would
prepare a long form audit report along the lines of the Bank's "Illustrative
Form of Audit Report for DFC's" for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1975,
and submit it to the Bank by December 31, 1975, and by September 30, for
each fiscal year thereafter; (ii) COA's own audit reports for FY76 and beyond
would be expanded to include a portfolio analysis and critical review of
DBP's financial policies and practices; (iii) the CB's audit and analysis of
DBP's loan portfolio as of the end of each fiscal year (beginning with the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1975) would be submitted to the Bank no later
than October 31, of each year; and (iv) in the event that the COA's audit
report for FY76 or beyond was found to be unsatisfactory to the Bank, the
Government would take appropriate steps including, if necessary, having DBP
appoint an independent auditor, to provide the Bank with whatever audits
and statements the Bank required to reach a firm judgement on DBP's financial
condition.
5.23      Internal Reporting.  At present DBP has a well established system
for the regular reporting of financial statements. However, it has not as
yet developed adequate systems for similar regular reporting on its overall
arrears situation, its loan and guarantee operations, its staffing position,
vacancies and recruitment or on its actual operations vs. budget. Con-
sequently, an inordinate proportion of staff time is spent retrieving and
develbping internally consistent information in a readily usable format to
meet the basic data needs of missions from the Bank and other agencies.
1/  As pointed out in paragraph 5.21, an analysis of DBP's loan portfolio
is undertaken by CB examiners - this analysis however, is not part of
the audit report.



- 21 -
Much of this information is essential for management control purposes. Its
absence handicaps the ability of management to perceive problems in advance
or to take timely corrective action. Consequently, management time is spent
almost entirely with solving a series of minor and major crises as they arise.
This problem was fully discussed during negotiations with DBP representatives
pointing out that several measures had already been taken to correct these
deficiencies. These measures, which include the establishment of reporting
units in the Accounting Department and in IPD I, were found to be satisfactory.
5.24      Projected Operations and Resource Requirements.  DBP's resource
position as of June 30, 1975, is analyzed in Annex 11. Resources available
for further commitments totalled P626.5 million. DBP's projected level of
loan commitments over the next two years (FY76 and 77) amount to P4.36 billion
with financing of capital goods imports amounting to P1.09 billion (about
US$155 million) or just over 25% of the total. These levels of commitment,
while considerably over the levels of the previous four years, are realistic
if the availability of resources allows DBP to substitute loans for foreign
guarantees. Projected commitment levels are much higher than those projected
18 months ago, mainly because price increases of capital goods far exceeded
expectations (an actual average of 40% vs. an estimated 10%). The proposed
loan of US$75 million will cover about 50% of DBP's total foreign exchange
requirements over the next two-year period. DBP is presently negotiating
a loani of US$25 million from the Asian Development Bank. The balance of its
foreign currency requirements is expected to be met through the Bank's proposed
second loan for inter-island shipping and through additional commercial
borrowings. DBPWs requirements for its local currency loans 1/ total P3.0
billion over the next 2 years, part of which would be met by Bank loans for
small and medium industries (P113 million), the second livestock project
(P150 million) and the grain processing and fisheries projects. Furthermore,
DBP expects to raise P200 million in FY77 through a savings bond scheme aimed
at the small individual investor. The balance of its domestic resource
requirements over the period (about P2.2 billion) is expected to be met from
its own loan collections, and from additional deposits placed by the National
Treasury and by the GSIS and SSS.
5.25      Prolected Financial Position and Performance.  Based on the above
projected levels of operations and its borrowings program, projections of
DBP's financial position and performance indicate a steadily improving pic-
ture (Annex 11). Providing assumptions about improvements in collection
rates (based on the follow-up program DBP intends to implement) are borne
out by experience, net income from operations is expected to rise gradually
from a level of P71.4 million in FY75 to P141.5 million in FY79 2/; as a
1/ Some of these loans will finance projects with fairly large indirect
foreign exchange components e.g. the small and medium industry loans.
2/ Net income is expected to rise abruptly to P266 million in FY76 mainly
because of an expected extraordinary gain on the sale of Marinduque
Mining shares. Excluding this factor net income would be P77.8 million.



- 22 -
proportion of average total assets however, net income would remain at a
fairly stable level of around 1.5%. As for its financial position DBP's
assets are projected to grow very rapidly (by 25.5%) between FY75 and FY76
to a level of P9.53 billion, reflecting the sharp rise in commitments during
FY75. Thereafter, the growth rate is expected to taper off with total
assets in FY79 being projected to reach F15.25 billion, roughly double the
FY75 level. The main growth will be in the loan portfolio which is expected
to nearly triple over the 5-year period and account for 70% of total assets
in FY79 vs 52% in FY75. A large part of the asset growth will be financed
by debt. However with the planned increments to DBP's equity presently
proposed (Annex 11, Table 4) by the Government, the debt/equity ratio is
expected to rise from 4.9 in FY75 to only 5.5 in FY79. 1/ The liquidity
position is also expected to be sound with the current ratio between FY76-79
being maintained at above 1.4. If expected levels of collections are achieved,
DBP's debt service cover would rise from 0.9 in FY76 to a minimum level of
1.3 over the projection period.
VI. OBJECTIVES, JUSTIFICATION AND MAIN FEATURES OF THE LOAN
6.01      Objectives.  The proposed loan will contribute toward two important
objectives in Bank assistance for the Philippine development program. First,
it will continue to provide resources on more appropriate terms 2/ for Philip-
pine industrialization, and in particular for balancing the industrial struc-
ture and strengthening the manufacturing export sector. The loan would be
directed mainly towards investments which would: (i) further diversify the
non-traditional export base; (ii) encourage greater domestic value added
through downstream domestic processing of traditional exports; and (iii)
encourage investments in intermediate and capital goods production. Second
1/   Excluding contingent liabilities which are expected to stablize around
an average P5.7 billion, the debt/equity ratio increase would be from
2.5 to 3.8 over the same period.
2/   As indicated earlier, in the past a large portion of the resources for
industrialization have been secured through suppliers' credits on
fairly harsh terms. These commercial credits generally have terms
of 5-7 years and bear a floating interest rate (the present floor is
about an effective 9%). As the Bank's economic reports have stressed,
such borrowings need to be limited to a manageable amount in order to
ensure that debt servicing does not assume burdensome proportions.
On project grounds, the terms of such commercial borrowings cause cash
flow difficulties for projects more or less from inception. For
example, nearly all projects financed under Loan 998-PH were on-lent
funds with terms of between 10-12 years to accommodate their projected
cash flows. It is unlikely that these same projects would have been
able to secure suppliers' credits for periods of longer than 7 years.



- 23 -
and equally important, the loan will enable the Bank to strengthen its
relationship with DBP and to continue the process of institution building
started with Loan No. 998-PH. This objective can hardly be overemphasized.
The beneficial implications of achieving improvements in: the resource
allocation and mobilization capacity of an institution with the economy-wide
impact of DBP; the soundness of its financial structure; and in strengthening
its operating procedures and management, are obvious. Although DBP is a more
diversified and less tractable institution than nearly all the DFC's the
Bank deals with, the Bank's impact in precipitating procedural and operational
improvements is already perceptible. Clearly major improvements will not be
achieved very quickly and expectations of progress need to be realistic.
While problems still remain to be solved, the progress achieved by DBP in
the last 18 months has not been insignificant. The proposed second loan
is expected to result in further gradual improvement in the following areas:
(i) the quality of DBP's industrial project appraisal; (ii) the quality of
industrial project supervision; (iii) the quality and quantity of staffing
in IPD-I; (iv) reduction in the growth of DBP's contingent liabilities; (v)
strengthening of its long-term resource base; (vi) improvements in earnings
performance through improved collections and a more appropriate level of rates
and charges; (vii) reduction in arrearages; (viii) more adequate provisions
for risks and reserves; and (ix) major improvements in the quality of audit-
ing and internal reporting.
6.02      Justification.  At the macro-level the loan is justifiable from
the viewpoint of making available to the economy long-term financial resources
on needed concessionary terms to cover essential import requirements. At
the micro-level an ex ante calculation of the aggregate economic rate of
return for sub-projects to be financed under the loan is clearly not possible.
However, proceeds from the last Bank loan to DBP for similar purposes were
used to finance a wide range of projects whose economic rates of return 1/
were estimated to range from 11% to 80%. The internal financial rate of
return for these projects ranged from 14% to 50%. Sub-projects financed
under the proposed loan are expected to yield similar returns.
Main Features of the Loan
6.03      Purposes.  The loan would be used to finance direct capital goods
import requirements of eligible industrial and other enterprises, and the
identifiable direct foreign cost of imported goods purchased from domestic
fabricators. The loan would also be used to finance the permanent working
capital 2/ requirements of eligible sub-projects. As with other Bank loans
1/   Based on appraisal estimates.
2/   Defined as "the initial stock of raw materials and supplies needed for
the commencement of operations, or the increase in such stock needed
for the expansion of operations".



- 24 -
to DFCs such enterprises would include those engaged in manufacturing, agro-
industries, mining, ocean-shipping 1/, tourism etc.
6.04      Form of Bank Lending.  The proposed loan would, in accordance with
the Government's wishes, be made to Government and re-lent to DBP on essen-
tially the same terms. However, it is worth noting that in view of DBP's
ready agreement to implementing the programs for improving its arrears
position and the quality of its audit, the appraisal mission considers DBP
creditworthy for a direct Bank loan.
6.05      Currencies.  Proceeds of the loan would be used to finance only
the direct foreign exchange costs of goods imported specifically for the
sub-projects being financed. In those instances where such goods were
imported through a domestic fabricator, the loan proceeds would be used to
finance the identifiable foreign exchange cost. Local currency expenditures
for sub-projects would be covered by the equity contribution of project
sponsors, and in some instances by peso funds from DBP.
6.06      Foreign Exchange Risk.  Sub-borrowers would bear the exchange
risk on currencies actually used for procurement. As with the previous
loan, the Government would bear the residual risk between currencies of
procurement and those of obligation (i.e. those currencies actually dis-
bursed by the Bank). Government would charge DBP a 0.75% fee (applied annu-
ally to amounts outstanding on the Bank loan) for such risk coverage. As
before, a fixed amortization schedule would be applied (paragraph 6.07) and
the Treasury would bear the full exchange risk on those funds repaid by
sub-borrowers to DBP but not yet repaid by DBP to the Bank.
6.07      Amortization Schedule.  For the sake of administrative simplicity,
and at the Government's and DBP's request, it is recommended that the loan
have a fixed amortization schedule with an 18-year term and a 4 year grace
period. This would correspond roughly with the expected aggregate amortiza-
tion schedules of the sub-loans financed under the project. The maximum
term of sub-loans under the proposed loan would be 15 years including the
grace period. Commitment is expected to take place over a 2-year period
and disbursements over 4 years (Annex 14).
6.08      Free Limit.  A free limit of US$1 million with an aggregate free
limit of US$30 million is recommended (paragraph 5.07). It is expected,
on the basis of experience with the previous loan, that about 70% of the
number of loans and over 85% of the amount committed will require the Bank's
prior'approval under the proposed free limits.
1/   Financing of inter-island shipping tarough DBP is catered for specif-
ically through special loans aimed at developing this industry.



- 25 -
6.09      Sub-Loan Sizes.  To ensure that DBP continues to on-lend the
proceeds of this loan to a reasonably large number of industrial projects,
it is recommended that the sub-loan ceiling of US$5 million established at
the time of the last loan be maintained.
6.10      Re-lending Rate.  DBP will charge sub-borrowers an interest rate
of 12% per annum for loans or portions of loans secured by land and 14%
per annum for loans or portions of loans not so secured. Based on past
experience with the types of security offered, the average nominal rate
charged sub-borrowers under this loan is expected to be 13.5%. The rates
of 12% and 14% represent the present ceiling rates established by the
Monetary Board for long-term loans. However, with the foreign exchange risk
and administrative charges, previous experience suggests that the effective
interest rate over the life of the loan will be in the region of 18-20%.
Compared to present and expected rates of inflation, this would mean a real
interest rate of around 8-10%. The average nominal spread for DBP on the
proposed loan will therefore be 4.25%. 1/ In the event that the lending
rate ceilings are raised by the Monetary Board, the Bank would be consulted
on the rates to be charged to sub-borrowers.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following matters:
(a) Matters agreed with the Government:
(i) within the 5-year rollover period (1975-80) of the
present securities repurchase agreement between CB
and DBP, Government would ensure that long-term
financing on suitable terms was made available to
DBP for its hotel projects (paragraph 5.14);
(ii) the Government would protect DBP against the risk on
accounts financed by DBP at the behest of the Govern-
ment in the event of default on principal and interest
payments or of eventual loss (paragraph 5.18);
1/  As suggested in paragraph 3.06, the Government financial system pre-
empts a large share of private financial savings. DBP functions as an
integral part of this system rather than as an independent mobilizer
of long-term funds. As such DBP has raised P1 billion through its
Progress Bonds (10 years-9%-tax free) and its Countryside Bills (5 years-
9%-tax free). Under these circumstances, issues concerning interest
rate spreads and other considerations which might affect DBP's borrow-
ing ability do not loom as large as they normally would with private
DFCs or even public DFCs which operate in a financial domain not
dominated by the Government.



- 26 -
(iii) the Government would bolster DBP's long-term
resource position through additions to equity or
through the provision of long-term loans with
maturities equivalent to DBP's own sub-loans
(paragraph 5.14); and
(iv)  the Government would convert P400 million in present
short-term holdings in DBP to long-term debt with a
maturity of at least 5 years (paragraph 5.14);
(b) Matters agreed with DBP
Under the terms of the proposed loan, DBP has agreed to:
(i)  increase its interest rates (within statutory
ceilings), guarantee fees, other charges and
penalty charges in accordance with an agreed
upon schedule (paragraph 5.15);
(ii)  review and, where justifiable, take action to
reschedule all its industrial accounts by
March 31, 1976 (paragraph 5.18);
(iii) exert its best efforts to reduce arrears; and
submit arrears data to the Bank in a format
agreed with the Bank, on a quarterly basis within
60 days of the end of each quarter (paragraph 5.18);
(iv)  limit total borrowings and outstanding contingent
liabilities to no more than 10 times its equity
base (paragraph 5.19);
(v)  take steps to reduce its foreign exchange risk and                         -
to provide for possible foreign exchange losses
(paragraph 5.20); and
(vi)  adopt a reserves policy statement mutually agreed
with the Bank (paragraph 5.21);
(c) Matters agreed on DBP's Audit
(i)  a long-form audit report for FY75, prepared by the
COA along the lines of the Bank's "Illustrative
Form" would be submitted to the Bank no later than
December 31, 1975, and by September 30 for each
fiscal year thereafter (paragraph 5.22);
(ii)   COA's own annual audits for FY76 and beyond would be
expanded to include a portfolio evaluation and a
critical review of DBP's financial policies and
practices;



- 27 -
(iii) CB's audit and analysis of DBP's loan portfolio as
of the end of each fiscal year (beginning with FY75)
would be submitted to the Bank no later than October 31
each year; and
(iv) in the event that COA's report for FY76 or beyond was
found to be unsatisfactory to the Bank, the Government
would take appropriate steps including, if necessary,
having DBP appoint an independent auditor, to provide
the Bank with whatever audits and statements the Bank
required to reach a firm judgement on DBP's financial
condition.






ANNEX 1
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
The Philippine Economy 1
Background
1.        Prior to 1973 the performance of the Philippine economy was
relatively disappointing. Its growth rate of 5-6% a year in real terms
for more than a decade did little justice to a country endowed with
considerable natural resources. Economic recovery, which began slowly
in 1971 partly as a result of Government action, was severely set back
in 1972 with the worst floods in 20 years and a large drop in agricultural
production. The resulting economic pressures provoked widespread civil
unrest which led to the proclamation of martial law in September 1972.
2.        With the subsequent restoration of stability, the passage of
economic reforms and favorable trends in world commodity prices, the
economy registered an impressive 10% real growth rate in 1973. The agri-
cultural sector, recovering from adverse weather conditions during the
previous three years grew by 7% and along with booming export incomes
caused the industrial sector to grow by about 11%. Growth in 1973 was
accelerated by increased public development outlays following a signifi-
cant improvement in the financial position of the Government with the
success of its tax effort. In the latter part of 1973, however, inflation
emerged as a major problem in the Philippines with consumer prices climb-
ing at an annual rate of more than 40%. The main factors inducing this
price rise we": large increases in liquidity created by the export boom,
the higher rate of world inflation; domestic food shortages and the
increased cost of petroleum.
3.        The unfavorable international economic situation notwithstanding,
the Philippine economy was able to maintain in 1974 much of the growth
momentum it had built up in the preceding year. Real GNP grew by 5.9%.
Dfue to favorable prices which lasted up to mid-year, export receipts
increased by 44% to US $ 2,694 million, despite a reduction in volume.
Import payments, however, doubled to US $ 3 143 million, almost 21% of
which was for purchases of petroleum products (the increase in the
petroleum bill accounted for close to one third of the increase in total
imports).  As a result, 1974 ended with a trade deficit of US $ 449 million
against a surplus of US $ 274 million for 1973. The balance of payments,
however, registered an overall surplus of US $ laO million for 1974,
entirely because of a substantial inflow of invisibles and foreign capital
which amounted to US $ 559 million. This surplus combined with net
compensatory borrowings of the Central Bank of US $ 180 million boosted
international reserves to US $ 1,165 willion at the year-end, a 33% increase
1/ For a detailed discussion and analysis of the Philippine economy, please
refer to the Bank's latest economic report entitled "Current Economic
Position and Prospects of the Philippines" No. 568-PH, dated November 7, 1974.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
over the 1973 figure. In spite of this achievement, the freely floating
peso dropped in value against the U.S. dollar in the latter part of the
year, moving from the relatively stable rate of P 6.72 which had prevailed
during the first nine months of 1974 to fluctuate around P 7.07 for the
rest of the year.
4.        In 1974, the growth performance of major economic sectors was
mixed.  Growth in manufacturing fell to 3.5% as rapidly rising prices
overtook the buying power of consumers. Particularly affected were
industries producing wood and textile products; on the other hand, marked
increases in output were registered in food manufacturing, machinery
(except electrical), metal products and paper. Construction increased
by 15%, partly as a result of Government infrastructure spending and partly
because of the time lag involved in starting projects conceived during
the 1973 boom in export earnings. Agriculture, fisheries and forestry
grew only by 3.4%, a 10% increase in agricultural output being overshadowed
by a dramatic 40% fall in forestry production due to the slump in demand,
both domestic and foreign. Mining stagnated while commerce and services
showed modest improvements.
5.        Throughout the year, the Government continued to maintain the
contractionary posture it had assumed in 1973 in its fiscal and monetary
policies.  At year-end 1974, it registered an operating surplus of P 2,568
million in its current transactions.  This 21% increase over the previous
year's figure was due to higher customs collections (which rose by 133%)
as well as collections of the Bureau of Internal Revenne and other govern-
ment agencies which more than offset increased operating disburse-
ments. Financial transactions similarly resulted in a net inflow of P 562
million, which together with the operating surplus raised the Government's
cash balance to P 6,843 million (US $ 978 million) at the end of the year.
6.        Inflation continued to bea major problem through 1974, with
continuing excess of liquidity generated by external transactions, rising
import costs and supply shortages contributing to a steady increase in
domestic prices. By mid-1974, however, the Government's contractionary
measures began to take effect and inflation began to abate. While the
consumer price index rose by an average 34% for the year as a whole,
the December 1974 figure, on a yearly basis had dropped to 29%. The sub-
stantial reduction in the balance of payments surplus and the considerable
increase in food production in crop year 1973/74 were among the factors
which moderated the rate of inflation.
7.        Though precise figures are not available, preliminary data
indicates that employment increased by more than 5% in 1974. All sectors,
except transport and communications, contributed to the increase with
commerce leading the way.  Nominal wage rates also were higher in 1974
but in real terms declined by about 20% as a result of inflation. Only
rural incomes showed positive gains in real terms as the price of rice
was increased substantially in an effort to spur higher production.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Performance in 1975
8.        The trends established toward the end of 1974 continued in the
first months of 1975. Inflation continued to subside with the rate of
increase in the CPI for Manila falling to 16% on an annual basis for the
first quarter of 1975 (compared to 34% for 1974 as a whole), and is expected
to average 10% for the year. The trade balance continued to deteriorate
with dropping commodity prices as did the balance of payments. With import
payments of US $ 778 million exceeding export receipts of US $ 627 million
in the first quarter, the resulting trade deficit of US $ 151 million,
offset by an invisiblessurplus of only US$ 18 million, led to a balance
of payments deficit of US $ 133 million. To ease foreign exchange pressures,
the Central Bank continued to drawdown heavily on its previously negotiated
credit lines during the period. In July 1975 the rate around which the peso
floated was adjusted downward to F7.65 to the US dollar, a devaluation of
9%. Since then the peso has recovered and stabilized at P7.5 to US $1.00.
9.        As to the performance of various sectors, no significant change
was registered. Following the heavy floods and typhoons in December 1974,
agricultural output is expected to show little or no increase in 1975.
Except for agro-based and capital goods industries,
other manufacturing sectors were still affected by the depressed demand
conditions. The employment index remained unchanged, reflecting in effect
a worsening in unemployment as the available labor force continues to
grow. Real wages were further eroded as adjustments failed to cover
inflation. With the unlikelihood of an improvement in external trade
conditions to pull the domestic economy out of its present state, the
Government is moving toward more expansionary policies.  For fiscal year
1976, the national budget will be increased by 25% to P 25 billion. Of
this amount, 67% will be spent for social and economic development and
more particularly on infrastructure projects.
Growth Prospects
10.       With the abrupt deterioration in the external terms of trade
since the middle of 1974, and with recession affecting major export markets,
recent economic gains are unlikely to continue at the same pace. Much
depends on how soon the developed economies begin to recover. The Govern-
ment, nevertheless,remains committed to maintaining a reasonable growth rate
to provide for a continued increase in incomes and employment. Priority
is being given to expanding food production for the domestic market,
increasing and diversifying export production and accelerating the
development of local energy resources. The difficulties experienced
during the last two years in importing sufficient quantities of food at
reasonable prices have increased the Government's resolve to achieve food
self-sufficiency as soon as possible. The Government is equally anxious
to expand the productive capacity of export industries and to undertake
major new import-replacing investments so as to correct the trade balance
position. The achievement of its GNP growth target of 7% a year in real
terms and the employment target rate of 4% in the next few years depends
largely on the domestic market. If weather conditions permit,the prospects
are for a continued expansion in agricultural output with a concomitant



ANNEX 1
Page 4
increase in real agricultural income. This increase, coupled with the
implementation of public infrastructure programs, would sustain demand for
industrial products and thereby provide the basis for the renewed
expansion of the industrial sector. Increased investments will therefore
be needed in a wide range of consumer and intermediate goods industries.
11.       If the recent important gains in reducing the external debt
burden and improving the external reserves position are not to be lost
by excessive recourse to medium and short-term borrowings, the Philippines
will continue to need long-term finance, partly on concessionary terms,
to finance its investment program. The proposed loan would contribute
toward meeting this need.
EAP Projects Department
October 21, 1975



ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
The Industrial Sector 1/
The Role of Industry in the Economy
1.        Starting from a very limited base, the industrial sector
(manufacturing, mining and construction) developed rapidly after World
War II. High growth rates were registered up until the mid-fifties, when
the sector's share of net domestic product reached 21 percent. With the
disappearance of the more readily accessible import substitution possi-
bilities, the sector then entered into a prolonged period of slow growth.
In the latter half of the fifties and throughout the sixties, the industrial
sector's average growth rate of 6.6% barely exceeded that of the economy
as a whole, a disappointing performance considering the sector's inherent
potential. It was only in late 1972 that this trend was reversed: over
the last two years, the sector's average annual growth rate reached 7.6%
and accounted for over 30% of the increase in NDP during that period.
Industry now represents the third largest sector in the Philippine economy
(after agriculture and services), accounting for around 30% of NDP in
1974, absorbing over a third of total fixed investment and providing
employ-ment for 15% of the total labor force.
Recent Growth
2.        The industrial sector's value added increased by 4.5% in real
terms in 1974. Although this was a sharp decline from the record growth
rate of 11% in 1973, the mere fact that the sector was able to maintain
part of its momentum was in itself an achievement given the higher produc-
tion costs and declining demand it had to face. Exports of manufactured
goods, which had increased their share of total exports from 6% in 1969
to around 12% in 1973, were seriously affected by the world-wide economic
slowdown in 1974 and declined in real terms. In value terms, they
increased from US $200 million in 1973 to around US $250 million in 1974
solely on account of higher prices, but as a proportion of total exports,
their share fell to 10%. The performance of the manufacturing sector,
which accounts for over two-thirds of all industrial activity, was mixed.
In terms of output, the industries which suffered sharp cutbacks in 1974
were wood and cork (22%), textiles (10%) and chemicals (13%); gains,
however, were registered in food manufaoturing (15%), non electrical
machinery (46%), metal products (16%) -nd paper (14%). Mining output
dropped by 2% mainly as a result of deceasing copper exports.  Construc-
tion, on the other hand, recorded a 15% growth, as the Government continued
to implement its infrastructure development program.
1/ The Industrial Sector is further discussed in IERD Report No. 280-PH
"Industrial Development Problems and Prospects in the Philippines",
dated March 19, 1974.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Structure of Industry
3.        The following table shows the changes in the sectoral composi-
tion of manufacturing over the period 1963-1973.
Sectoral Composition of Manufacturipa
(Value added in P million at constant 1967 prices)
1963            1968             1973
Value           Value            Value
Added     %     Added      %     Added      %
Consumer Goods                 1,896    55.5   2,322    50.8   3,329    52.7
Food, beverages & tobacco       1,459    42.7   1,820    39.8   2,611    41.3
Textiles, apparel & leather       437    12.8      502    11.0     718    11.4
Intermediate Goods                861    25.2   1,316    28.8   1,814    28.7
Wood & furniture                  240     7.0      271     5.9      352     5.6
Paper & printing                  171     5.0      245     5.4      324     5.1
Chemicals, petroleum, coal,
rubber and plastics            329     9.6     614    13.4      906    14.3
Non-metallic mineral products   121       3.6      186     4.1      232     3.7
Capital Goods                     486    14.2      664    14.5      796    12.6
Basic Metals and metal products 182       5.3      267     5.8     304      4.8
Machinery and equipment           304     8.9      397     8.7      492     7.8
Other Manufacturing               175     5.1      268     5.9      381     6.0
Total                      3,418   100.0   4,570   100.0   6,320   100.0
Source: NEDA, National Income Accounts
While manufacturing value added grew by an average 6.3% over this ten-
year period, the structure of output did not change significantly. The
first half of the period saw intermediate goods increase their share of
total value added at the expense of consumer goods which subsequently
regained some of the lost ground. In 1973, manufacturing activity
continued to be concentrated mainly in the consumer goods sector (food
and beverages, and textiles).
4.        The manufacturing sector is predominantly privately owned and
is generally concentrated in large-scale, vertically integrated, relatively
capital-intensive units. In 1971, organized manufacturing units with over
200 employees represented only 4% of the total number of registered
enterprises but accounted for over 60% of their total employment and 75%
of value added. The following table further illustrates this point.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Size Distribution of Industry, 1971
No. of Enterises    Employment           Value Added
No.      X          No.       X       million
__                   No.      _                   ___ _
5 - 19 workers      8,203      80.0      68,209    16.2        324     4.3
20 - 99 workers      1,363      13.4      56,h89    13.4        693     9.3
100 - 199 workers       291       2.8      40,222      9.5       790    10.6
Over 200 workers        391       3.8     256,297    60.9      5,641    75.7
Total           l0,248    100.0      421,217   100.0      7,448   100.0
Source:   1971 Annual Survey of Manufactures
Geographically, over 65% of manufacturing enterprises are located in the
Greater Manila and Southern Luzon area, with increasing industrialization
taking place in Northern Mindanao and the Visayas, as can be seen from the
following table:
Regional Distribution of Manufacturing Industries
(Percentages)
1967                          1972
No. of       No. of   Value   No. of        No. of   Value
Enterprises  Workers  Added   Enterprises  Workers  Added
Greater Manila              58.6       65.0    64.8        57.8       58.8    62.9
Luzon (excl. Manila)        12.8        8.9     8.7        14.8       10.9    10.7
Visayas and Bicol           19.1       11.9    14.7        17.1       14.3      14.1l
Mindanao                     9.5       14.2    11.8        10.3       16.0    12.3
Total                  100.0       100.0   100.0       100.0      100.0   100.0
Saurce: 1972 Economic Census, BCS
Employment in Industry
5.        Philippine industrialization has so far contributed disappoint-
ingly little toward alleviating the persistent problems of unemployment
and underemployment. Between 1960 and 1971, employment in manufacturing
grew at an annual rate of about 2.5%; in 1972 it fell by 0.3% and in 1973,
by 3.3%,to recover in 1974 by 6.5%. The share of manufacturing in total
employment has actually dropped from 12.1% in 1960 to 10.4% in 1974. The
distribution of manufacturing employment in the Philippines is unusually
skewed, with heavy concentrations at both ends of the industry spectrum,
in the "unorganized" cottage-industry sector and in very large firms.
Employment growth in the former has been very slow (1.6% annually) while
in the latter it has been moderately rapid (5.4% annually).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Orientation
6.        Its growing export orientation notwithstanding, Philippine manu-
facturing is geared mainly to production for the domestic consumer market.
This is attributable to an industrialization strategy which previously
placed excessive emphasis on import substitution, resulting in a domestic
market highly protected by both direct import controls and high tariffs.
The industrial investment and output thus encouraged tapered off with the
exhaustion of possibilities for easy import substitution. For a time, the
protected market, the lack of any direction and regulation of investment,
and cheap capital resulted in chronic overcapacity in several industries
and led to severe financial difficulties for several large enterprises.
However, with stronger markets at home and abroad, a more realistic exchange
rate and better regulation of investment, this situation has improved
considerably in the last three years. Increased investments will be needed
to meet the expected growth in demand for a wide range of consumer and
intermediate goods in the next few years. Moreover, the increased cost
of many imported goods has broadened the range of possibilities for further
import substitution.
Industrialization Strategy
7.        Largely because of the relative failure of the industrialization
of the 1960's to earn foreign exchange and to create jobs, and because of
the concentration of industry in Manila, the Government's current strategy
for industrial development is to promote export-oriented industries,
encourage labor-intensive techniques of production, and promote backward
integration and regional dispersail of industries.
8.        The current emphasis is on more effective use of installed
capacity and on promoting the development of small and medium scale modern
enterprises serving both the domestic and export markets. In its antici-
pation of growing export demand, the Government is also encouraging invest-
ment in specific large-scale, capital intensive projects, particularly
in the mineral-based processing industries. The development of such
large-scale projects would not only strengthen industrial linkages but
also reduce over the long run the dependence on imported capital and
intermediate goods as well as expand the industrial export base. The
Government plans to locate these large projects on industrial estates so
as to foster the development of on-site ancillary industries. The total
cost of such major projects in the pipeline (which include copper and
aluminum smelters, an iron-ore sintering plant, shipbuilding, automobile
manufacturing, an integrated steel mill, fertilizer plants and wood-proces-
sing facilities) is expected to exceed US $5 billion at 1975 prices.
Government Policies and Investment Incentives
9.        Since 1968, the industrial sector has been affected by several
policy changes. The most important of these include: (i) a reform of
investment and export incentives and the establishment of the Board of



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Investments (BOI); (ii) the exchange rate adjustment; and (iii) the
revision in tariff policy.  In July 1974, a new Department of Industry
(DOI) was created to develop and coordinate policies in the industrial
sector and to monitor industrial performance.
10.       Investment and Export Incentives.  The Investment Incentives
Act (R.A. 5186) of 1967 reformed and subsumed the previous fragmented
structure of incentives; it was supplemented by the Export Incentives Act
(R.A. 6135) in 1970. Both acts were amended in 1973 with a "labor-
intensity" criterion being introduced. These Acts resulted in a reduction
of taxes and tariffs foregone from 20% of annual gross investments (between
1965-68) to 10% (between 1968-72) and in a change in the composition of
taxes forgiven. Exemptions have emphasized income and sales tax relief
(which do not discriminate against domestic products) and reduced reliance
on import duty. Export incentives, which have been widely availed of,
have assisted the growth of exports and the diversification of the export
product range.
11.       The Board of Investments (BOI). The responsibility for deter-
mining the eligibility of and registering projects for incentives and
regulating private industrial investment lies with the BOI. Accordingly,
it: issues an annual Investment Priorities Plan (IPP) listing those
activities which qualify for incentives; determines the additional capacity
required in industries; and approves individual investment projects in
line with the annmal IPP. The BOI also draws up a periodical list of
"overcrowded industries" in which the Government discourages further
investments by refusing incentives and foreign exchange for imports. The
BOI plays a central role as an "evaluation and appraisal" body which examines
the technical, financial and economic viability of industrial projects.
BOI is, in addition, an active promotional agency, which by virtue of its
powers to provide or refuse incentives guides investment and reshapes
project design. It also assists private investors with arrangements for
domestic and international marketing and subcontracting, and undertakes
specific industry and market studies for them. BOI has been endeavoring
to improve its operations, policies and procedures, and to that end has
received, since 1972, the technical assistance of the UNDP in a program
for which the Bank is the Executing Agency. About one-half of new
industrial investment in the Philippires now goes into projects approved
by BOI.
12.       Exchange Rate. The floating of the peso in February 1970 resulted
in a large de facto devaluation of about 60% (from P 3.9 to P 6.7 to US$1).
Since then the peso has been allowed to float freely. Toward the end of
197l it depreciated further against the dollar, falling to P 7.07 = US $1.00.
In July 1975, the peso was devalued by about 9% and presently stands at ? 7.50
US $1.00. The more realistic exchange rate has reduced distortions in the
price of inputs, discouraged currency cp3culation through over-invoicing,
and made Philippine manufactured exports more competitive. The original
devaluation also hit very hard those industrial firms heavily dependent
on imported inputs and with sizeable foreign debts. The problems of
debt-servicing thus created have slowly been ironed out. The initial
"shock" of the devaluation has now worked itself through the system and
the maintenance of a more realistic exchange rate will probably have a
salutary effect on future resource allocation.



AkN1EX 2
Page 6
13.       Revision of Tariffs.  A nuaber of changes and improvements took
place in the structure of protection with the passage of Presidential
Decree No. 34 which took effect on January 1, 1973. Although introduced
principally as a revenue measure, the new tariff code has simplified and
rearranged the previous structure. A minimum tariff rate of 10% is
imposed on raw materials which have to be imported and on capital goods
not yet manufactured in the Philippines. Higher rates, of between
30-70%, are levied on intermediate and consumer goods, with a maximum
100% rate applied to products manufactured domestically and to luxury
items. The element of protection in the tariff structure is reinforced
by an import licensing system administered in consultation with BOI for
industrial products and capital goods for which domestic capacity exists
or is planned. BOI can also recommend changes in tariff rates for
industries included in the IPP. Because of licensing and the fact that
nominal rates for complete products are higher than for inputs or com-
ponents, the level of effective protection for domestic finished products
is generally higher than the nominal rate.
14.       Policy-Making and Implementation.  The BOI, originally designed
as the principal regulatory agency which would guide industrial investment,
became, by default, increasingly involved in policy-making. To relieve
it of the resulting overload two other Government agencies have begun to
play an important role alongside the BOI in formulating and implementing
industrial policies. The first is the National Economic Development
Authority (NEDA). Created in 1973, MEDA is now the principal apex policy-
making institution, and is responsible for the preparation of the 4-year
Development Plan. The second is the Department of Industry (DOI).
15.       The Department of Industry (DOI).  Established in 1974, the DOI
is to become "the primary policy, planning, programming, coordinating,
implementing and administrative entity of the executive branch of gover7
ment in the development, expansion and diversification of industry ..."-.
The reorganization plan that established the DOI, has placed the Board of
Investments along with the Iron and Steel, Fertilizer and Cement Industry
Authorities and the Presidential Advisory Committee on the Copper Industry
under the wing of this Department. These various entities will continue,
however, to function under their own separate authorities, while DOI is
to coordinate their activities. To carry out its task, the Department has
organized itself in three divisions: the Bureau of Industrial Coordination
(BIC), the Bureau of Industrial Information and Programs (BIIP) and the
Commission on Small and Medium Industries (CSMI), the largest of the three.
BIC and BIIP are concerned with policy and program formulation and imple-
mentation on a sector basis for medium and large scale industries; the
CSMI, on the other hand, is responsible for coordinating all assistance
programs and for providing direct technical assistance to small and medium
industries, particularly those located outside the Greater Manila area.
1/ Presidential Decree No. 488. Further Amending Part IX of the Integrated
Reorganization Plan by Creating a Department of Industry.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
16.       Recommendations for additional policy changes have been
submitted by flEDA to the Government and are presently under consideration.
They call, inter alial for: (i) further liberalization of the tariff
system to enhance the competitiveness of domestic industries in export
markets; (ii) a more selective application of the incentives system; and
(iii) the streamlining of administrative procedures. There is definitely
a need for some revisions in the pattern of incentives if industry is
to make a meaningful contribution to employment creation and export
earnings in the coming years.
Industrial Investment
17.       Manufacturing investment maintained through 1974 the real growth
rate of about 9% recorded in 1973. The paid-in capital of manufacturing
firms newly registered in the first nine months of 1974 totalled P 201.8
million, a 65% increase over the figure for the similar period in 1973.
Applications for incentives filed with the BOI during the 11-month period
ending August 31, 1974, were also sharply up in terms of planned invest-
ment which amounted to P 2,411.9 million, compared to P 1,047.7 for the
October 1972 - September 1973 period. The following table is indicative
of this trend:
Applications for New Investments Received by the BOI
_F million)
Oct. 1, 1972-Sept. 30, 1973   Oct. 1, 1973-Aug. 31, 1974
Local    Foeign   Total        Local    Foreign   Total
Industry
Agribusiness               291.6       14.9    306.5       339.8      226.6    566.4
Mining and Mineral
Processing                57.6       12.7     70.3       244.9     222.7    467.6
Metal-based Industries    106.5        45.3    151.8       104.6      105.8    210.4
Chemicals                  313.1       65.2    378.3       457.7     302.2    759.9
Others                      24.5      116.3    140.8        85.0     322.6    407.6
Total                    793.3      254.4  1,047.7    1,232.0   1,179.9  2,1411.9
Source: BOI
The most significant aspect of this growth is the increase in planned
foreign investment, up by 360% over the previous period, primarily as a
result of a surge in European and Japanese investment intentions that grew
by a factor of 11.6 and 4.3 respectively. Planned US investment still
retained the first place (at P 285.5 million) but was only slightly ahead



ANNEX 2
Page 8
of European investment (? 265.1 million); the figure for Japan was
? 172.0 million. Preliminary data for the first three quarters of 1975,
however, suggest that investment plans formulated in 1973 and 1974 are being
deferred until economic conditions improve. Nevertheless there is a general
consensus that manufacturing investment in the Philippines will increase
dramatically over the next five-year period. NEDA's tentative development
plans call for total industrial investment over the 4-year period 1975 - 78
to be around P 25 billion (in 1974 prices) or over 27% of total fixed capital
formation. Given what is presently known on the status of several proposed
large projects, NEDA's figure appears to be on the low side. Industrial
investment requirements might actually be as high as P 52 billion
(US $7.4 billion), a threefold increase over the figure for the previous
four years. Investment in manufacturing would account for over 90%, increasing
in real terms by an average of 10% annually between FY 75 - 78 (a growth of
5% is expected for 1975 and over 11% for the rest of the period). The main
thrust of the growth effort lies with three non-traditional, highly capital-
intensive industry groups: steel and other metal making, chemicals and
chemical products, and pulp and paper. Wood processing is also expected to
experience an above-the-average growth rate (12%). Average annual growth
rates for other industries would be in the 7-10 percent range. The Government
expects 64% of industrial investment requirements to be financed through
domestic sources 1/, 12% from direct foreign investment and 34% from guaranteed
commercial foreign borrowings. This level of investment will necessitate a
substantial increase in resource mobilization from domestic sources as well
as a sustained inflow of foreign capital on reasonable terms.
EAP Projects Department
October 29, 1975
1/ Apart from cash generated internally by firms, and personal savings
this figure also includes foreign resources mobilized by domestic
financial intermediaries such as (DBP, CB and PDCP) from official
multilateral and bilateral aid sources.



ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINES
Development Bank of the Philippines
The Philippine Financial Sector
1.         Overview. The Philippines has a relatively well developed
financial system with Manila becoming a regional financial center of
increasing prominence. The core of the system is a large and sophisticated
commercial banking sector regulated by the Central Bank of the Philippines
(CB). There are in addition a variety of specialized financial institutions
e.g. industrial term financing institutions, investment houses, and savings
and loan associations. The Land Bank was recently revitalized to finance
the Government's agrarian reform program. Over the last 5-6 years the
Government has encouraged the rapid development of a network of small independently
owned and operated rural banks and private development banks which would
concentrate on providing needed financial services to their localities. There
is also a well-developed (perhaps over developed) short-term money market
on which a variety of good quality commercial and industrial issues circulate.
The present statutory ceilings on long-term interest rates however have
prohibited the development of a sound long-term capital market. Although two
stock exchanges exist, activity on them is heavily concentrated on speculative
issues.
Financial Institutions
2.          Commercial Banks.  There were, as of March 31, 1975, 30 privately-
owned Filipino commercial banks, and two owned by the Government. Branches
of four foreign banks also operate in the Philippines. Over half of the
Filipino banks have been established in the last decade. They operate under a
branch banking system (there are over 890 branches) and are the main sources
of working capital and trading credits. The largest bank is the Government-
owned Philippine National Bank (PNB). With 171 branches, it accounted for over
34% of the banking system's total assets (over P44 billion at the end of
March, 1975). The banking system has grown rapidly in 1973 and 1974 more than
doubling its assets in that two-year period. Domestic credits provided by
comme-cial banks in 1974 amounted to nearly P27 billion, about one-third of
which went to the manufacturing sector, mainly for short-term working capital.
To strengthen and rationalize the commercial banking system, CB instituted a
program aimed at doubling the capital base of the private commercial banking
system to P3 billion by end-1975. This was to be achieved through: an increase
in paid-in capital; merger and consolidation; and foreign equity participation. So
far commercial banks seem to have opted for the first and last of these courses,
with only a few mergers. A large amount of foreign equity has been attracted
to the banking sector. As of March 31, 1571 the net worth of private domestic
banks aggregated about P2.55 billion,an increase of P871.2 over December 31,1973.
Over the same period the net worth of government banks increased by
P136.6 million.



ANNEX 3
age Z2
3.          Rural Banks.   There are now about 704 rural banks established
all over the Philippines with total assets of about P2.1 billion and a
deposit base of about P0.9 billion.  These institutions are generally small
regional "unit banks" (average paid-in capital of about P350,000) that lend
mostly to local farmers (average loan size of P1,000) who account for 87.2%
of their total business and businessmen (average loan size P1,200) who account
for 12%. The growth of these institutions is being fostered by the Central
Bank's Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Association (IRBSLA),
Under a 4-year development plan for rural banks, their number is expected
to increase to 1,015 by 1977 and their loaning capability is expected to
grow from P1.2 billion to P2.3 billion. Rural banks receive counterpart
equity contributions, loans and technical assistance from CB, along with tax
exemption privileges and special rediscounting schemes to supplement their
credit extension abilities.   Total loans advanced by rural banks in 1974
amounted to nearly P1.6 billion, 77% of which was directed toward agriculture,
3% toward commerce, 1.3% for rural industry and the remainder for financing
other activities. The phenomenal growth of rural banks over the last decade
has been financed largely by government provided debt. For instance, although
total assets increased by P728.1 million, the capital base increased by
P52.7 or an incremental debt equity ratio of 13:1.   The total capital base
of the rural banking system at end 1974 amounted to P375 million of which
only P149 million was provided by owners in the form of common stock.
4.          Sa     s_Banks.  There are 10 savings banks in the Philippines with
a network of 56 branches. Drawing funds mainly from households and individaal
savers in the form of time deposits these thrift institutions had aggregated
total assets of P1,160 million and deposits of P881 million as of December
31, 1974. Savings banks have exhibited a very rapid rate of asset growth over
the last 4 years (an average 23% per annum) as a result of their aggresive
marketing campaigns aimed especially at lower income groups. They lend mo.stly
for housing and real estate, although in the past 2 years an increasing proportion
of their resources have been channelled into Government securities.
5.          Savings and Loan Associations (SLA's).   SLA's, of which there are
over 100, can be either "stock" (36) i.e. they can engage in deposit and
banking business with the public at large or "non-stock" (66) when they are
limited in their banking transactions to members only (credit unions). Two
thirds of all SLA's are located in the Greater Manila area,   As of December 197L,
SLA's had total assets of about P282 million and a deposit base of P127 million.
Most of the business of "stock" SLA's is in the financing of home mortgages while
non-stock associations specialize in personal consumption loans. With the
assistance of CB, SLA's are beginning to diversify their lending operations
into financing agricultural and home-based cottage industries.
6.          Development Finance Institutions.  Two institutions, DBP and the
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) are the main providers
of long-term finance with MSP (total assets of P7.8 billion) by far the larger
of the two. PDCP's total assets as of the end of 1974 were P747 million, with
outstanding loans to industry amounting to P580 million.   Its foreign
resources are derived mainly from the Bank Group (US$110 million so far)
and the Asian Development Bank (US$45 million).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.          Private Development Banks  (PDBs).   These institutions, of which
there are now 32, have been promoted by DBP in various regions (with much the
same assistance as provided by CB to rural banks) to specialize in the
mobilization and lending of long-term resources for small local ventures.
As of December 31, 1974, total assets of PDB's amounted to about P298 million
and they had a deposit base of about P165 million. Outstanding loan invest-
ments of PDB's as of end 1974 totalled about P223 million, 75% of which were
in the form of medium and long-term loans. During 1974, PB 's made loans
totalling P118 million.   Agricultural loans (average size P9,100) accounted
for about 47% of total lending while industrial loans (average size P21,000O
accounted for a further 30%, the remainder being for trading/commercial firms.
8.          Other Term-Financing Institutions.  Besides DBP, PDCP, and the
PDB's several institutions provide term finance, a very small proportion of which
goes to industry. These include: (i) the National Investment and Development
Corporation (NIDC), a subsidiary of PNB; (ii) private investment houses;
(iii) insurance companies; and (iv) pension and trust funds including the
Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) and the Social Security System
(SSS), whose resources for industry are funnelled mainly through DBP. While
the outstanding loan portfolios of these two institutions now total over
P6.7 billion, the bulk of their lending is for real estate (60o%)pnd consumer
loans (25%).
9.          Investment Houses.   Defined in Presidential Decree No. 129 as
any enterprise which engages in the underwriting of corporate securities an
investment house is prohibited from engaging in deposit banking business.
However, it can engage in"quasi-banking" operations through the generation
of deposit substitutes. The minimum paid-in capital requirement for an invest-
ment house is P20 million and a majority share must be owned by Filipino nationals.
There were 12 investment houses at the end of 1974 with 5 institutions dominating
the industry. Most are linked with major international financial institutions
and with large local commercial banks. Their operations and revenues so far
have been heavily based (about 80% on average) on money market activity rather
than on development of the securities market or the provision of corporate
merchant banking services. Total assets of the investment houses amounted to
about F3.8 billion at the end of 1974. Total income from operations expanded
by 118% during 1974 to P385 million.  The total capital base of the industry
amounted to P365 million, with paid-in capital stock amounting to over P270
million. Over a third of paid-in capital was contributed by foreign sources.
This segment of the financial sector has grown at over 50% annually over the
past 8 years, mainly because of the increase in volume of money market operations
(paragraph 12 below). The average daily volume of short-term transactions
is in the range of P60-250 million for an investment house. In a sense, the
investment houses contain the greatest potential for further development of
the Philippine financial sector. They are depositories of sophisticted financial
skills, but the direction of their growth has veered markedly away from
the intentions guiding their establishment, largely because of an inappropriate
policy environment.
10.         Finance Comanies.  There are 198 finance companies registered with
the SEC, the 25 largest accounting for 70% of their business.  These companies,
mostly subsidiaries of major commercial banks are heavily engaged in financing
consumer durables on installment payment plans, short and medium term credits



ANNEX 3
for local manufacturers or traders for financing inventory, receivables or
transport equipment. A few such companies have diversified into equipment
leasing. Such firms typically rely on paid-in capital and direct borrowings
for cash generation; a few have successfully placed medium term debentures
with the public. Complete data is not available on their, assets, operations
or income; their total assets as of end 1974 approximated P2.3 billion.
11.         Suppliers' Credits.  Foreign commercial borrowings guaranteed
by domestic financial intermediaries (principally DBP) have in the past
accounted for 30-35% of investment in manufacturing. Prior to 1970, such
borrowings were obtained on relatively hard terms. As a result of the
stringent debt management measures taken since 1970 by the Central Bank which
stipulated minimum terms for foreign credits, and the substantial increases
in export earnings, the burden of servicing such debt has been reduced to a
manageable level. DBP's outstanding guarantees (contingent) liabilities
presently stand at over P3.5 billion and over time have accounted for
over 70% of its financial assistance to large industries.
12.         The Money Market.   The Philippine money market provides the
mechanism through which commercial banks and large corporations keep their
liquidity positions in balance. There are basically three specialized
sub-markets: (i) interbank; (ii) government securities and (iii) inter-
company. The government securities market is the principal segment with
the government being the largest trader in funds. The main security instruments
traded in this market are short-term Treasury Bills, medium-term Central Bank
Certificates ef Indebtedness (CBCI's) and Treasury Notes, and long-term Progress
Bonds issued by DBP. Direct trading in Treasury Bills is generally quite
heavy; trading in longer term securities however is mainly "indirect" i.e.
the securities themselves are not traded, they serve as collateral for "repurchase"
agreements between sellers and buyers.   Participation in the intercompany
mkrket is restricted to financial and non-financial public firms with prime
credit ratings. A major deficiency in the money market is the absence of a
secondary market for dealing in and discounting commercial paper.  Interest rates
on short-term transactions are not regulated and rates on the money market have
fluctuated between 10-25% in the past year. The total volume of transactions on
the Philippine money market was estimated at over P100 billion in 1974.
13.         The Securities Market.  There are two stock exchanges in the
Philippines, one in Manila (established in 1930) and the other located in the
Makati financial district (established in 1963). Trading is heavily oriented
towards speculative mining and mineral issues although the more stable
financial and industrial stocks are slowly gaining in prominence. After a
a remarkable recovery in 1973 (following a three year slump between 1969-72)
when trading reached an all time high of over P6 billion, the stock market
slumped again reflecting the steacbr worsening of the world economy, and the
problem of rapid inflation which has depressed corporate performance and profits.
The substantial gains in capital market activity in 1973 were attributable to
several factors such as the general recovery of the econonmy, a decline in money
market rates, and structural reforms based on the recommendations of a joint
IMF-Central Bank Commission. The reforms included such measures as a reduction
in the stock transfer tax; exemption from capital gains on the securities
of preferred productive enterprises; repatriation of foreign capital and profits;



ANNEX 3
Page 5
a tax amnesty which returned several hundred million pesos from the "black
market" to the capital market; and a compulsory dividend declaration rule
for companies generating profits in excess of reasonable capital expansion
requirements. With the stock market on the decline the Philippine Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) banned "short-selling" in July 1974 to stop
the further erosion of confidence in the stock market. The SEC is considering
the introduction of a new system of "matching" (i.e. matching demand and
supply for a particular stock on a daily basis) instead of the present system
of "posting" so as to systematize local trading operations, streamline the
trading process and minimize the potential for irregular trading practices.
Recent Developments
14.         Recent Developments in the Financial Sector.  Four major developments
have taken place in the financial sector over the last year. In July 1974
the CB raised interest rates on time deposits of over 2 years. Moreover thrift
institutions were allowed a 0.5% interest advantage over commercial banks.
CB also placed a ceiling of 2% for commercial banks and 3% for thrift banks
on financial charges other than interest rates, with the intention of
substantially reducing effective rates charged by financial institutions
(add-on charges formerly went as high as 6%). The second major development
was the establishment of a Philippine Foreign Loan Guarantee Corporation
(PFLGC) with an authorized and subscribed capital of P1 billion. Its main role
will be to alleviate the contingent liability burdens presently carried by
DBP and NIDC and to ensure a steadvy availability of foreign supplier's credits
on reasonable terms. PFLGC, in addition to directly guaranteeing foreign loans,
will also be able to counter-guarantee the guarantees of other private
financial institutions.  Thirdly, in August 1974 a special bank - the Philippine
Amanah Bank - was created to serve the interests of the Moslem community.
Lastly, the failure of a large commercial bank and the consequent disruptive
effects on money market operations have led Government to bring the investment
houses under the closer supervision of the Central Bank. Government is also
in the process of introducing legislation requiring money market issues to be
registered with the SEC.
EAP Projects Department
October 29, 1975



ANNEX 4
PHILIPPIES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHIIJPPINES
Board of Governors as of September 30, 1975 1(
Name                                 Position and Background
Leonides S. Virata           Chairman of the Board of Governors since
March 1970. Formerly acting Deputy Governor
and Director of Economic Research, Central
Bank, 1949-1952; member of the Monetary Board,
1954-1956; Vice-President Finance and Vice-
Chairman, Philippine American Life Insurance
Company; Secretary of Commerce, 1969. President
of the Philippine Chamber of Industries, 1965-
1966.
Jose V. de Ocampo            Vice-Chairman and full-time Governor in charge
of supervising the Industrial Projects Depart-
ments. Legal Assistant, Evaluation Officer and
Chief of Special Studies, Central Bank, 1955-
1959; with DBP since 1959, as Special Assistant
to the Chairman, Manager of Investment Banking
and Economic Research Department, and Treasurer,
prior to being appointed Governor. Represents
DBP in DBP-financed private firms.
Jose R. Tengco, Jr.          Full-time Governor, supervising the Agricultural
Projects, and Branches and Agencies Departments.
Represents DBP in DBP-financed private firms.
Former Assistant Vice-President of the Philippine
Bank of Commerce.
Recio M. Garcia              Full-time Governor, supervising the Acquired
Assets Management, Community Development Projects,
and Development and Rural Banks Departments.
Represents DBP in DBP-financed private firms.
Former Chairman and President, Quezon City
Development Bank.
Alejandro Melchor            Part-time Governor.  Executive Secretary to
the President of the Republic.
Vicente T. Paterno           Part-time Governor.  Secretary of Industry
and Chairman of the Board of Investments.
Leon 0. Ty                   Part-time Governor.  Member of the Philippine
Bar.
1/ One full-time and one part-time Governor positions are vacant.
EAP Projects Department
October 29, 1975



POILIPPINID
DEEI0IN    BANIK_i T  0 PILIPPINES
-        ---        ---        --(A. of Decem.ber 31, 1973)-----------------------------(A. of April 30, 1975)----------------
Authorized                                                   Actuel                                                Authorized                                                  Actual
Prof.          Noo-Prof.            Total                  Prof.          No-Prof.            Total                 Prof.           Non-Prof.          Total                 Prof.          Non-Prof.            Total
Pull-Tine Governor    Offte-                                             11                 9              19                        7                9                16                     7                  5              12                     7                 4                11
Chairma's Office (.lC-nsoltents)                                         29                15              44                      76                13                39                    18                if               28                    18                 9                27
Offimo of the Legal Counsel (H.0.)                                       29                30              59                      25                26                51                    53                25               78                    43                10                53
CMiviServiefOffics                                                        2                 1                3                       2                1                 3                     2-                                 2                     2                                   2
provident Pond Departmet                                                 11                 9               20                       3'                1                 4                   14                  6              20                     6                 4                10
Auditing Doeartne.at (0.0)                                               44                35               79                      44                35                79                   96                 20             116                    91                14               195
Traasoror's.Ogffie                                                        7                 3              10                       6                 -                 6                     7                  3              10                     4                 2                 6
DeSe..rti- Mo  . 4ngeorme   eportoent                                   50                45               93                      46                37                83                    34                19               52                    36                13                51
Cash & Co' laterol Mama.gemot Dparimont                                 39                31               70                      39                17                33                    39                29               68                    36                24                69
Comptrollers. Offiec*--                                                                                                                                                                      12                 2               14                    10                 1                11
Aneounting Departnent                                                    35                31               86                      31               46                 77                   22                 16              38                    20                11                31
EgDP Departmet *--                                                                                         -                         -                -                -                     21                29               so                    20                23                43
perGonnel Atlazinllrtlon Department                                      16                20              36                      16                20                36                    63                35              190                    39                24                63
General Services Department                                              22                99             121                      22                99               121                    46               199              244                    20               109               029
Medical/De.atlj Department                                               12                 2               14                      12                 1                13                   17                  3              20                    17                 1                19
Seeretarial Deportment                                                   4                63               67                        3               33                38                     3                63               66                     3                47                50
Sob-Total Support Staff                           311               412              723                     291              340               621                   456               462              919                   372               298               670
Department of Developmet & Rural BanSko                                  21                 6               27                      20                3                23                    37                  9              46                    23                 4                27
Consooity Develpment Projects Department 0-                                                 -              -                         -                -                -                     69                13               82                    49                13                91
Real Estats & Govenmet Loans Department                                  39                20              39                      32                11                49                     -                  -              ----
Acquired Assets Department                                              41                 27               69                      16               10                26                    40                 29              69                    24                11                35
Agricultural Projects Department                                        134                64             199                      86                36               222                   189                 33             224                   141                31               172
Brameheo & Agencies Dpartuent                                            32                17              49                      30                17                47                    42                16               59                    35                14                49
Industrial Projecta Department I                                        64                 16              s0                      30                 8                38                    91                17               98                    52                10                62
Industrial Projecto Department II                                       59                 12              71                      38                 9                47                    75                16               91                    55                14               69
Industrial Prnjeots Department III                                      69                 14              83                      29                 9                37                    72                14               96                    44                 9                53
Nosiness Re...areh Department *------38                                                                                                                                                                        14               52                    17                 5                22
Credit Department                                                       3.3               10               43.                     30                 7                37                    39                15               54                    25                 6               31
Sob-ToteD  Operotiom  Dtoff:                   491               196              677                     311               117               429                   692               177              859                  464               l17               5Sf
Smb-Total Duerort Draff:                       311               412              723                     291               340               621                   456               462              919                   372              299               670
Head Oiffee Brand Total                        Sf2               599            1,400                     392               457             1,049                 1,139               639            1,777                   836              413             1,251
All Brt...hes                                                                                             751           6__04              1,355                                                                            912               639            1.542
Total DSP                                                                                              Lil1.061                            2.404                                                                          1_748            1_043             2.793
0/Estbliahed In 1974
EAP Projecta DePartneot
July 3D, 1975



ANNEX 6
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
DBP's Financine Operations
A. Overall Financing Operations
1.     As shown in Table 1 of this Annex, aggregate approvals by DBP of
loans, guarantees and equity investments have increased at an average annual
rate of 20% over the last four years.  From July 1, 1971, to March 31, 1975,
DBP's overall operations virtually equalled, in terms of approvals, the
total cumulative volume of financing extended prior to that period b th by
DBP and by its predecessor, the Rehabilitation Finance Corporation -
(P9.4 billion compared to P10.0 billion, respectively). While this
expansion actually began in the late sixties when total loan and equity
investment approvals were averaging P300 million per year, it was abruptly
halted by the turmoil that followed the large devaluation of the peso in
February 1970. Many of DBP's borrowers were suddenly unable to meet their
foreign obligations and DBP, having to honor the guarantees affected 2/
was hard pressed for cash to meet the increasing demand for financial
assistance. The cash squeeze lasted through FY 1971, at which time a sub-
stantial backlog of pending applications had built up. The resorption of
this backlog and the subsequent strong recovery of the economy in 1973 and
1974 contributed to the renewed growth of DBP's operations in recent years,
the financing of which was made possible by an increase in the availability
of resources from Government and foreign sources.
2.     As of March 31, 1975, total cumulative approvals by DBP of loans,
guarantees and equity investments amounted to P19.4 billion (US$2.8 billion).
Foreign currency guarantees accounted for P11.7 billion (US$ 1.7 billion)
or 60% of total approvals, and loans, equity investments and domestic guar-
antees for 36%, 3% and 1% respectively. By sectors, the bulk of DBP's
financing has gone to industry (manufacturing, mining, transportation,
shipping, public utilities, agro-industries, etc.). Including guarantees
ad equity investments, industry has received P15.1 billion or 78% of total
approvals, agriculture 8%, real estate 8%, and other sectors, including
private development banks, the balance of 6%. In the last four years,
there has been no discernible long-term shift in the sectoral composition
of DBP's financing operations which represented about 14% of total fixed
capital formation in the Philippines over this period. A recent develop-
ment, however, has been the substitution of direct lending for industrial
guarantee operations. This is expected to alleviate the debt burden on
prospective borrowers and to avoid the prospect of repeating earlier ex-
perience.
1/ The Rehabilitation Finance Corporation was established in 1947 and
replaced by DBP in 1958.
2/ At the time the value of the peso was unpegged, DBP's total foreign
exchange exposure stood at US$ 610 million, or about one-third of the
Philippines total external debt outstanding.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
B. Industrial Financing Operations
Lending Operations
3.     As can be seen from Table 2, the first nine months of FY 75 proved
to be quite remarkable for DBP in terms of the volume of industrial lending
operations. Along with overall lending operations which rose to F1.9 billion
(US$ 271 million) from their FY 74 level of P293 million, approvals of
industrial loans soared to P639 million (for 1,093 loans) compared to
P95 million (for 684 loans) in FY 74. The substantial increase of close
to 800%, ranking second only to the quantum jump in loan approvals for
hotel projects (see paragraph 17), brought the total number of industrial
loans approved as of March 31, 1975, to 19,806 for a total amount of
P3,328 million. This level of industrial lending contrasts markedly with
the average of P70 million which had been achieved over the FY 72-74 post
devaluation period. Only in FY 70 1/ did the volume of lending approach
(at least in real terms) the FY 75 level; however, even in that particular
fiscal year, DBP's approvals for 640 industrial loans only amounted to
P341 million. The unprecedented increase in volume was brought about by a
substitution of direct lending for operations which DBP was previously
forced to guarantee. The availability of increased resources from the
National Treasury, the Bank and other foreign sources, was the main factor
that allowed DBP to make such a shift in the composition of its industrial
financing activities.
4.     Sectoral Distribution.  While there has not been any major structural
change in the overall distribution of DBP's industrial lending over the last
four years (see Table 3), shifts in emphasis within various industry
branches have reflected revisions made in the Investment Priorities Plan
by the BOI. In terms of broad categories, consumer goods industries ac-
counted for 38.3% of cumulative approvals as of March 31, 1975 (vs. 37.8%
as of end-FY 71); intermediate goods accounted for 23.4% (vs. 23.9%);
capital goods for 36.9% (vs. 36.7%); and other miscellaneous industries
for 1.4% (vs. 1.6%). The table below shows the variations that affected
particular industries in the recent past:
DBP - Sectoral Distribution of Industrial Loans Approved
(F million)
July 1, 1974 -
FY73              FY74         March 31, 1975
No.   Amt.       No.   Amt.        No.   kmt.
Food                                13      7.7       18    10.8        61    19.9
Beverage & tobacco                   -       -         1     2.3         1     0.1
Coconut oil                          1      0.3        -       -         7    70.2
Textiles                             3     0.4         3     2.7        21   163.0
Footwear & apparel                   1      0.3       18     6.3        55    20.8
Leather                              4     0.8        12     2.8        17    15.6
1/  Squeezed by a cash shortage following payouts on guarantees, DBP's lend-
ing operations in FY71 plummetted.  Only 99 industrial loans were approved
for an amount totalling P8.9 million.



ANTNEX 6
Page 3
July 1, 1974 -
FY73             FY74         March 31, 1975
No.  Amt.        No.  Amt.         No.   Ant.
Wood & cork                           1     1.8         2     1.0         4    18.6
Furniture & fixtures                  9     1.2        16     3.0        46     9.7
Paper & printing                      4     0.5         2     0.4        10     1.4
Rubber                                1     0.2         2     0.9         2     o.6
Chemicals                             -      -          1     0.4       11    24.9
Non-metallic                         40    16.5        31    32.1        22    31.3
Metal                                 2     0.6         6     1.7        18     6.3
Non-electrical machinery             10     1.5        23     4.8        25     8.7
Electrical machinery                  2     0.2         3     0.3       14    14.7
Transport equipment                  16     2.4         7     4.2        16     2.8
Miscellaneous                        12     4.4         7     1.3        26     1.7
Mining                                6     1.7         1     0.4         8    19.4
Public utilities & services          11    13.9        28    16.4       242   206.9
Sub-total                       137     4.4       1i1    91.8      W      _3___
Cottage industries                  1gT1   -O8       50-3    3.1        W7      2.3
Total                          277    55.2       684    94.9    1,093   638.9
In the first nine months of FY75, DBP's industrial lending was heavily con-
centrated in the textile industry (backward integration) and in coconut oil
milling (forward integration); these industries accounted for 37.8% of total
lending to manufacturing industries. Loan approvals for public utilities
and services also increased sharply and accounted for a further 33.5% of
total lending; this was due in part to DBP's committing funds from its first
Bank shipping loan. The distribution had been quite different in FY73-74
when cement (non-metallic products) and food processing industries were the
main recipients of DBP loans.
5.     Size Distribution.  The substitution of loans for its guarantee opera-
tions in the first nine months of FY75 led to a heavy concentration of DBP's
industrial lending in a small number of large loans. Out of the 1,093
industrial loans approved in this period, 26 loans of more than P5 million
each, accounted for 83.2% of the total amount approved (P638.9 million).
Out of these 26 loans, 20 were appraised by DBP's Industrial Projects
Department I (IPD-I) for a total amount of P358.7 million, and the remain-
ing 6 by IPD-III for P172.7 million. In the past few years, the scarcity
of long-term resources had not permitted DBP to lend directly, for a single
opere,tion, amounts larger than P5 million. As a result of this concentration,
the average size of DBP's industrial loans rose from P139,000 in FY74 to
P585,000 for the first nine months of FY75. However, if one excludes
these 26 loans, the average size of the -emaining industrial loans shows a
steady decline from P199,000 in FY73 to  10l,000 for the first nine months
of FY75, reflecting DBP's sustained efforts to assist smaller regionally
dispersed industries.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
6.     Geographical Distribution.  Table 3 shows the geographical distri-
bution of DBP's industrial lending which is suimnarized below:
DBP - Geographical Distribution of Industrial Loans Approved
(P million)
July 1, 1974 -
FY73              FY74           March 31, 1975
Amt.  ,V           Amt.  ,%         Amt.      %
Manila                  16.8   30.4        33.4    35.2    246.6      38.6
Luzon (exc. Manila)    12.7   23.0         34.8    36.7    213.1      33.4
Visayas and Bicol        9.3   16.9        13.2    13.9    102.6      16.0
Mindanao                16.4   29.7        13.5    14.2      76.6     12.0
Total             55.2  100.0        94.9   100.0    638.9    100.0
Although there had been a sharp drop in the share of industrial lending to
Luzon in FY73 (from 79% to 53%), this was not maintained in the following
years. The Greater Manila Area alone (Manila, Quezon City and Rizal) ac-
counted for 38.6% of DBP's industrial lending in the first nine months of
FY75, an increase over its proportion in FY73 (30.4%) and FY7h (35.2%).
This figure, however, is still below the share of cumulative approvals
represented by this area as of end-FY71 (55.1%), and much lower than what
the extent of industrial concentration would suggest (63%). The Visayas
and Mindanao, which had seen their share more than double in FY73 (from 21%
to 47%), attracted 28% of DBP's industrial lending both in FY74 and in the
first nine months of FY75. DBP's countryside development program, which
was introduced in September 1971 to encourage greater lending for agricul-
ture, cottage industries, and small and medium industry in the provinces,
has not yet resulted in a significant diversion of industrial lending out-
side luzon. Better results are expected in FY76, particularly for small
and medium industry (SMI) financing, as DBP commits its recent SMI Bank
loan.
7.     Types of Loans. Of the P638.9 million approved in the first nine
months of FY75 for industrial loans, close to 63% went to finance machinery
and equipment and 27% to cover working capital requirements (including the
build-up of raw material inventories). As Table 14 indicates, this repre-
sented a significant change in the utilization of DBP loan funds, compared
to that of the previous fiscal years. FY72 had been characterized by the
very high percentage of funds (82%) granted to assist enterprises still
facing financing difficulties after the floating of the peso in February 1970
(mainly the cement industry). In FY73 ind FY74, the share of machinery and
equipment financing increased to a thixd of total financing approved, while
refinancing operations were gradually being phased out. Again the explana-
tion of the shift that occurred in the first nine months of FY75 lies with
the substitution of direct lending for industrial guarantee operations, as
private foreign suppliers' credits generally cover imports of industrial
capital goods (paragraph 9).



ANNEX 6
Page 5
8.     Projects Financed Under IBRD Loan No. 998-PH.  As of July 31, 1975,
DBP had submitted 17 sub-projects to the Bank, 15 of which had been approved.
All of these 15 projects were approved by DBP in the first nine months of
FY75. Total sub-project approvals amounted to US$ 35.8 million, leaving an
uncommitted balance of US$ 12.2 million as of that date. As Table 5 indicates,
the total cost of these projects was estimated to be P628.4 million, with
DBP providing P20.3 million (or 3% of total financing) out of its own local
currency resources, and IBRD, about 40%. With the exception of two projects
in ivindanao, all the projects financed so far under Loan 998-PH have been
located in Greater Manila and Central and Southern Luzon. The textile and
garment industry has been the principal recipient of IBRD funds, account-
ing for over US$ 23.2 million for 8 projects; the remaining seven projects
are in wood products (2), leather goods (1), ceramic tiles (1), coconut
oil (1), machinery (1) and mining (1).  At appraisal, the projects were
estimated to have economic rates of return varying between 11-80% and
financial rates of return of between 14-50%. Together they are expected
to result in the creation of over 3,900 jobs and in incremental net foreign
exchange earnings/savings of over US$ 90 million annually when they come
into full operation.
Guarantee Operations
9.     DBP began to guarantee foreign credits in 1965. Its foreign cur-
rency guarantees fall under two categories. Guarantees termed "regular"
are those extended by DBP to cover private foreign suppliers' credits,
generally for importation of industrial capital goods. 1/ From 1965
through March 31, 1975, approvals of this type of guarantees have totalled
US$ 1.4 billion or 86% of DBP's total foreign guarantee operations. The
second category consists of guarantees given by DPB, as administering
agency, under the US Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) and Canadian Wheat
Board (CWB) bilateral credits for the importation of raw cotton, tobacco,
and wheat flour. Through March 31, 1975, approvals of CCC and CWB guar-
antees amounted to US$ 225 million or 14% of foreign guarantee approvals.
In addition to its foreign currency guarantees, DBP also guarantees peso
credits extended by local banks to local enterprises, usually for working
capital; cumulative approvals of these domestic guarantees stood at
P177.8 million as of MIarch 31, 1975.
10.    As can be seen in Table 6, DBP's guarantee operations declined sub-
stantially in the first nine months of FY75 when approvals totalled P609
million compared to P2.76 billion in FY74 and P1.59 billion in FY73.  This
decline was due entirely to the drop in regular foreign guarantee operations
from a total of US$ 397.4 million in FY74 to US$ 61.2 million in the first
nine months of FY75. As explained before, this reduction resulted from
DBP's shift to direct lending for its industrial financing operations.
Domestic currency guarantees, on the other hand, increased from P12 million
in FY74 to P50 million for the nine month period ending March 31, 1975, and
1/ Regular guarantees also include USAID PL-480 credits.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
CCC and CWB credits from US$ 11.7 million to US$ 18.5 million over the
same period. As of March 31, 1975, DBP's contingent liabilities stood
at P3.27 billion (US$ 466 million) of which regular foreign currency guar-
antees accounted for US $446 million or 97%. DBP's Industrial Projects
Department I alone carried in its books 71% of all medium and long-term
regular foreign guarantees outstanding, and IPD III, 25%,the remaining
4% being distributed between the Agricultural Projects and Community
Development Projects Departments.
11.    Size Distribution of Guarantees.  DBP's substitution of direct
lending for regular foreign guarantee operations has affected noticeably
the average size of foreign guarantees approved in the first nine months
of FY75. In FY74, foreign guarantees approved had averaged US$ 8.3 million
per project. This large size was due to the fact that as the principal
source of industrial finance in the country, DBP was called upon to finance
a number of projects considered to be of national importance, some requir-
ing financing for as much as US$ 100 million equivalent. In the first
nine months of FY75, however, the average fell to US$ 2.5 million.
12.    Sectoral Distribution.  As in the case of industrial loans, DBP's
guarantees are well diversified by sectors (Table 8). Taking all guarantees
together, food manufacturing accounted for 18% of cumulative approvals as
of March 31, 1975; public utilities, 17%; textiles, 15%; metal industries,
10%; cement, 9%; paper and paper products, 8%; lumber and wood products,
7%; the balance of 16% going to other industries. This distribution has
remained virtually unchanged over the last few years, except for the
seven point increase in the public utilities' share resulting from the
seven large guarantees granted in FY74 to air transport, electricity gene-
rating, and shipping, for an amount totalling US$, 169 million (see Table 7).
13.    Geographic Distribution.  In terms of amounts outstanding as of
March 31, 1975, the geographic distribution of foreign currency guarantees
reflects more closely the distribution of Philippine industry (see Annex 2,
page 3), than is the case for industrial loans (paragraph 6). This is
understandable since these guarantees were extended to large-scale enter-
prises most of which are located in the Greater Manila and Central/Southern
Luzon areas. As Table 9 indicates, Greater Manila alone accounts for close
to 48% of the amounts outstanding; the effects of this concentration have
already begun to influence the geographic distribution of industrial loans
approved, as noted earlier, as DBP moves to phase out foreign guarantees and
replace them by direct loans.
Securities Investments
14.  As of March 31, 1975, DBP's total investments in corporate securities
amounted to P555.6 million (Us$ 79 million equivalent), of which P163.3
million or 29% represented investments in common and preferred shares of 22
private companies; P359.2 million or 65%, common and preferred stocks of
7 government controlled companies; and P33.1 million or 6%, other fixed
income instruments (Table 10). Investments In preferred shares of private
development banks and rural banks are not included in these figures, but are



Ai'nBX 6
Page 7
discussed in paragraphs 18-21 of this Annex. As a matter of policy, DBP
does not take up equity in private industrial firms except through the
conversion of options in its loan agreements or as collateral preferred
holdings to secure its loans.  But, as the principal government financial
institution, it does make equity investments in specific government com-
panies. In the first nine months of FY75, for instance, its largest equity
investment approval of P124 million went to the National Steel Corporation.
C. Other Financing Operations
Agricultural Financing
15.    DPB's agricultural lending is mainly directed to small-and medium-
size borrowers. Up to March 31, 1975, agricultural loans totalling P1,553
million had been approved for 227,924 projects, representing an average of
about P6,800 per project. Loans for agriculture cover a broad spectrum:
food crops, principally rice and corn; commercial crops, mainly sugar and
coconut and more recently abaca; livestock, principally poultry and hogs;
and fisheries. The distribution in terms of cumulative amounts approved
has been: food crops, 38%; commercial crops, 34%; livestock 19%; and
fisheries, 9%. Terms of loans range from one year for production credits,
e.g. paddy and fertilizer, to 10 years for capital investments. Interest
rates are 9% and 12% per annum on loans under P5,000 and above this amount
respectively.  Collateral requirements are usually strict (the loan amount
is not to exceed 70% of the appraised value of collateral).
Community Development Lending
16.    This activity, previously termed real estate lending, includes
financing of projects such as low-cost housing, hospital and hotel con-
struction, and other operations. Up to end-FY74, DBP had approved 51,779
real estate loans totalling P709.6 million, or an average size per loan of
P13,700. Some 50% of approvals had been for large residential buildings,
25% for commercial buildings including schools and hotels, 12% for low-
cost residential housing and 8% for hospital buildings with the remaining
5% going to other constructions. In recent years DBP has been stressing
lending for low-cost housing projects (which accounted for 75% of the
amount approved for real estate loans in FY74) but this new emphasis has
been totally dwarfed by the huge expansion of hotel construction financing
which has marked the first nine months of FY75.
17. Hotel Financing. In view of the forthcoming Annual Meeting of the IMF
and IBRD in Manila and in the anticipation of rapid development of its
tourism sector,the Philippine Government decided, in late 197h, to provide
special financial assistance for hotel construction projects to be under-
taken and completed by August 1976 in the Manila area. DPB was the princi-
pal financial institution (along with GSIS and SSS) chosen to extend this
funding under an arrangement by which the Central Bank would repurchase on
a yearly basis and roll over for at least five years Government securities
held by DPB, for an amount covering 80% of DBP's disbursements for hotel
construction projects endorsed by the Central Bank. These projects



ANNEX 6
Page 8
accounted for 75% of all hotel loan approvals of P726 million granted in
the first nine months of FY75 for the Manila area.  Total DBP financing
approved over the same period for hotel construction amounted to P869.2
million (including one guarantee operation for P42 million).  In late
February 1975, however, the Philippine Tourism Authority whose prior
approval was required for a project to be considered by DBP, decided not
to accept any new applications, fearing a possibility of excess capacity,
given the downturn in the tourism industry. Should excess capacity
materialize just with the hotels presently under construction, DBP would
be particularly hard hit with a worsening of its already worrisome arrears
situation. Hence the need for a more suitable refinancing arrangement to
be worked out between the Government and DBP (see paragraph 7.01).
Assistance to Private Development Banks.
18.    DBP's charter entrusted to it the specific functions of promoting
and establishing private development banks in the provinces and cities.
The objective was to bring financing facilities to small agricultural and
industrial enterprises in remote localities. DBP's financial assistance
to private development banks consists of equity investments in preferred
shares (generally about one-half of share capital) and rediscounting fa-
cilities. As.a substantial shareholder, DBP is represented on the boards
of private development banks and has a voice in selecting their managers,
but otherwise is not directly involved in their management. DBP also
provides some technical assistance in the form of training facilities.
19.    So far, DBP has established 33 private development banks.  At year
end 1973, DBP's outstanding preferred shares in these banks amounted to
P24.6 million, which were transferred to the Land Bank of the Philippines,
under P.D. No. 85, in April 1974. This enabled DBP to step up its equity
investment operations previously curtailed by the P25 million ceiling set
in its charter for its outstanding equity investments in the share capital
of such banks.  As of December 31, 1974, the total outstanding financial
assistance by DBP to private development banks amounted to P51.3 million,
of which p2.2 million represented investments in preferred shares, P41.6
million outstanding rediscounts and P7.5 million savings and time deposits
maintained by DBP in these banks.
20.    Despite their impressive growth  as a source of finance, private
development banks do not have a significant share of the credit market.
As of December 31, 1974, their lbtAl assets amounted to P298 million, with
a combined loan portfolio of P189 million. Total lending by private
development banks in 1974 amounted to P118 million, representing an average
annua.l lending amount of P3.6 million (US$ 0.5 million equivalent) for each
institution. Their financing has gone to agriculture to the extent of
46%, and to industry for about 30%.
Assistance to Rural Banks
21.    To provide capital assistance for the establishment and develop-
ment of rural banks, the Central Bank established a special trust fund
that is administered by DBP. Chartering of new rural banks and supervision



ANNEX 6
Page 9
of existing ones is, however, the task of the Central Bank's Department
of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan Associations. Capital assistance is
extended to rural banks in the form of subscriptions to their preferred
shares of stock. At year-end 1974, DBP had released P101.9 million for
capital subscriptions to these banks.
22.    The rural banking system has experienced   rapid growth in the
past two years. From 587 at the end of 1972, the number of rural banks
has increased to 710 at the end of 1974; total assets have likewise risen
from P426 million to P912 million and lending operations from P782 million
to Pl,599 million over the same period. The Government is presently aiming
at increasing the number of rural banks to 1,105 and their annual lending
capacity to P2.3 billion.
Government Loans
23.    This category consists of loans made for the financing of income-
producing projects of municipal and provincial governments, such as markets,
slaughterhouses, waterworks, power plants, telephone systems and trans-
portation projects. These loans are usually guaranteed by the local
governments, and DBP has a claim on these governments' share of the
federal income. As of March 31, 1975, DBP had approved 691 such loans
for a total amount of P203 million.
Other operations
24.    As a key government financial institution, DBP has been also
directed at certain times by the Government to carry out special operations,
such as special lending programs to typhoon victims and college students.
With a few exceptions, these operations do not, however, represent a sig-
nificant portion of DBP's overall financing activities.
EAP Projects Department
October 29, 1975



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT SANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Susory of QOerationo. January 1. 1947-March 31. 1975
(P million)
Januarv 1. 1947-June 30. 1971           FY 1972                      FY 1973                    FY 1974               July 1. 1974-March 31. 1975         Cumulative Total
li-          ~ Am.ount         No.         Amount         No.         Amount          No.        Amo-nt             llo.        Amount              No.          Amount
Approvals
Loana
Industrial                                      17,506         2,477.7            246         61.4            277         55.2           684         94.9            1,093         638.9            19,806         3,328.1
Agricultural                                   165,556            956.6         8,846         54.8         12,858        109.5        13,706        120.4           26,958         311.7           227,924         1,553.0
Other                                           44.612           958.2          1.916         46.1        3,874           68.9         4.182         77.7           3,J68          952.6            57.752         2.103.5
Sub-total                                  227.674          4.392.5         11.008        162.3        17,009        233.6         18.572        293.0          31.219        1.903.2          305.482          6.984,6
Equity investments
Preferred shares                                    30           205.3            -            -              -             -              1          5.0                1          10.3                32           220.6
Coon shares                                          _              Z2                       148.9              1          1.0             3         73.5                2         127.0                 8           350.4
Sub-total                                        30           205.3              2        148.9             1          1.0              4         78.5                3         137.3                40           571.0
Guarantees 1/
Domestic currency (P million)                       32           113.1              5         10.8              7         16.6             3         12.0                1          50.0                36           177.8
Foreign eschange (US$ million)                     112           839.1            156        225.1             94       232.7             49        409.1               32          79.7               329         1.665,0
Sob-total (P million) 2/                        144         5.454.2            161      1,473.9           101      1.589.4             52      2.760.0               33         609.5               365        11.866.1
Total approvals                                                   10,052.0                    1.785.1                     1_824.0                    3.131.5                        2.650.0                          19.421,7
Disbursements
Loman                                                                n.m                          n.a.                      372.6                      330.5                          582.2                             n.a.
Equity invstmets                                                     277.0                      173.2                       103.0                       58.8                          141.9                             n.a.
Sub-total                                                     n... n,a.                                              475.6                       389.3                          724.1                             n.a.
Gnarantee, issued I/
Domestic currency                                      28             87.2             3          6.3              5          9.6             3         14.5                2          56.0                35           171.5
Foreign exchange (US$ million)                         100           793.6           150        201.9             77        155.3            46        259.0               34         107.3               310         1,517.1
Sub-total                                       128         5,166.2            153      1.318.6            82      1.059.2             49      1,754.2               36         809.3               345        10,821.5
Advances on guarantees                                                1,020.9                       424.1                      442.9                       323.4                          279.7                           2,491.0
jj  Figures do not add up by line because cumulative totals are shown net of cancellations uhereas yearly figures are not.
2j/  Exchange rate applied:  U8$ 1.00 = P6.500 for end FY 1971 and Fy 1972
- P6.759 for FY 1973
= P6.717 for FY 1974
= P7.020 for 9 months FY 1975
EAP Projects Department
June 19, 1975



Z1^>°°NI~                                 Nl              N I C 1 l         CNNNCN'~4CN                    C                        ANO 6 ITal
N N            I              N          Ci                O~   4              -                      C0
0c           CN             N.'4CN~.4                                              NNCCNC    '4oie 0^^OD1       1 
C9 -       N  N        C           s N  N     u N        C    C            C'0.0C       NNNN              C
NN             C           C'          NN         N                           N  C4       N    C     C
N            N2..0               Cl         -          '4                Cl         N0got   o       CD
_  C          CN         ' N                    C.          C    '4          N
0               -
ON Cn °°__ °                                                       C]         N N  N  '4NN'4NNN]r    I
t                      _          x_ N            _NNdQ  
H ~~~~                   N I        '4sN'4CCCCC  Z        °C ° I             C'4   C.ON' @vM4N C° -         CI° 
sl~~~~~~ I
I~~~~~ c-                                           -
-11                                   I I                                     I       
*|~~4                            '1t     l             °4 CN NN   NCNNC.CC                    N          CCe  'N NCNCNN31  N                                    0,eoex  1n 
N                                                                                                                                                            0   1 >=>=°°                    °^           l fsn           bo  lc 
-l                  0     l    '4C N .-.    N   I               NN      CC '4              N        _NC  CN          N     N4C         N
z1 ~       ~        CN  N=                            CNN m          1 0   -o _ t 1         NNNNm    ONCCN            J    NJI I     
ol    s131           NNNCC-    C                     C1 -sC4NC                              NN CC1  CNNN CeeS~             0a 
0.~~1..   =0-                                    I-I°I_- N----II 
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o
o                     CC      CN =                   NCo    N         N          C           N  C' N CN '    C    C
NNNrNN                     C              N Rl               C    N            C-C           CNI Cl                                  C    R   
0                    NN              N                          -           4      N                 N,                                   I C  
0                    o       _ ' C NCN   N I         NN         N          N    N           N  CN       NN^                 NI                     N         
0      NO°              C.CC             NI          NC         C     i    N    N           N NNCCCCNN                      NI                   . I C
-~C             N I                     N                         J                                     C N- N  
0-                                                                           = ...                                      Y0 
-0  C        c        ol         N                                 Sl~         N c0                                           0c°
C                                N  °°R°°° c                                                            -tc c o¢I= 
C     'CC.C               N I ;    NN           og N    U'4Ct 1           2     N     CNNNCN  C                                    30.10  
a                C     N          N    N        '                                Nl         CN '4       N                               C  :  
4       CC  Ce''                       N1le Cw  I                               C     C. N4                  



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ThE PHILIPPINES
Characte-ititcs of Industrial Ioans Approved, January 1. 1947 - March 31, 1975
(Amount in P cillion)
January 1. 1947 - June 30. 1971                    FY 1972                      FY 1973                      FP  1974                  July                1, 197  1975                Cumulative Total
Number  Amount  7.            Number   A unit    %         NuSber   Amount    7         Nunber   Anount    7.           Number      Amount           v             Number      Amount             %
(a) Sectorm1 Diltribhtiom
Food nmo-fact-ring                                           570        291.4         11.9                3        0.2    0.3         13        7.7   13.9         18       10.8   11.4              61       19.9          3.1                665      330 0            9,9
Rica and corn landmary 1/                                  3,781        329.9         13.3               58        2.0    3.2         .         -       -          -          _      -                         _ -                           3,839      331.9            10.0
3everaSe industries                                           39         18.1          0.7                1        0.2    0.3         _         -                      -                              1        0.1          0.0                 41       18.4             0.6
Coconut prodmato                                              40         12.7          0.5               -                 -           1        0.3    0.6         -         -       -                7       70.2         11.0                 48       83.2             2.5
Tobacco nanufacturn                                           30         28.5          1.2               -         -       -          -         -       -            1       2.3     2.4           _-                       -                   31       30.8             0.9
Tactil.a, cordage and toine                                  142        352.9         14.2                2        0.6    1.0          3        0.4    0.7          3        2.7     2.8             21      163.0         25.5                171      519.6            15.6
Apparel and other finiched producta                          409          33.7         1.4                1        0.1    0.2          1        0.3     0.3        18         6.3    6.6             55       20.8          3.3                484       61.2             1.8
Lu=bnr and wood produ-ta                                     209         91.3          3.7               -                 -           1        1.8    3.3           2       1.0    1.1               4       18.6          2.9                216      112.7             3.4
Furniture and fiotore manufacture                            239         16.8          0.7                0        0.4    0.6          9        1.2    2.2         16        3.0    3.2              46        9.7          1.5                315       31.1             0.9
Paper and paper prodncto                                      63         70.8          2.9                                                              -          -         -       -                2        0.2          0.0                 65       71.0             2.1
Printing, publishing and allied industries                   340         34.8          1.4               -         -       -           4        0.5    0.9          2        0.4     0.4              8        1.2          0.2                354       36.9             1.1
Leather and leather products                                 271          23.8         1.0                1        0.1     0.2         4        0.8    1.4         12        2.8    3.0              17       15.6          2.4                305       43.1             1.3
Rubber products                                               41          20.4         0.8               -         -       -           1        0.2    0.4           2       0.9    0.9               2        0.6          0.1                 46       22.1             0.7
Chanicals and chenical produatn                              196          87.2         3.5                                 --                           -            1        0.4    0.4             11       24.9          3.9                208      112.0             3.4
Petroleum acd coal                                             2         13.0          0.5               -          -          -                -       -            -        -      -                         -            -                    2       13.5             0.4
Non-metallic products                                        192        147.3          0.9               21       34.3   55.9         40       16.3   29.9         31       32.1   33.8              22       31.3          4.9                306      261.5             7.9
Metol industries                                             328        186.0          7.5                1       19.S   31.8          2        0.6     1,1          6        1.7    1.8             18        6.3          1.0                355      214.1             6.4
Machinery (other than elsatrical)                            185          31.7         1.3               _                 -          10        1.5    2.7         23        4.8     5.1             25        8.7          1.4                243       46.7             1.4
Olectricol machinery ond apparatus                           106          74.6         3.0               -         _       _           2        0.2    0.4          3        0.3    0.3              14       14.7          2.3                125       89.8             2.7
Transportation aqulpmaent                                    199         26.5          1.1                3        0.1    0.2         16        2.4    4.3          7        4.2     4.4             16        2.8          0.4                241       36.0             1.1
Other manufactorieg inyatries                               183         30.9          1.2                1        0.2    0.3         12        4.4     8.0          7       1.3    1.4              26        1.7          0.3                231       38.3             1.2
EOtruetive iodustries -                                      697        118.5          4.8                4        1.6    2.6          6        1.7     3.1         1        0.4     0.4              8       19.4          3.0                716      141.6             4.2
Public otilities and  iervice  (mnl. shipping)               958        421.0         17.0                5        1.6    2.6         11       13.9   25.2         28       16.4   17.3             242      206.9         32.4              1,244      659.8           19.8
Cottage induetries                                           307          0.8          0.0               19        0.1    0.2         35        0.4    0.7        110        1.4    1.5             487        2.3          0.4                958        3.0            0.2
Small lodnotries                                           7.977         14.6          0.6              121        0.4    0.6        106        0.4    0.7        393        1.7    1.8            _           -           _                 8.597       17.1            0.5
Total                                               17.506      2,477.7        100.0              246       61.4  100.0        277       55.2  100.0         684       94.9  100.0          1.093      638.9        100.0             19.806   3,328.1            100.0
(b) Geo-ra-hical Diatribotiom
M anIla                                                    5,994      1,364.5         53.1               41       26.9   43.8         62       16.8   30.4        128       33.4   35.2             183      246.6        38.6              6,408   1,688.2             50.7
Ilooos and Mt. ProvInce                                      308         20.4          0.8               18        0.1    0.1         14        1.2    2.2        119        3.6    3.8              42        1.9          0.3               301        27.2            0.8
Cagayan Valley and Batan..                                   388         26.6          1.1               10        0.3    0.5         12        2.5    4,5         29        1.3    1.4              29        2.9         0 5                468        33.6            1.0
Ce.tral Lu-on                                              3,379        366.5         14.8               73       20.6   33.6         33        6.6   11.9         63       23.4   24.7             318       58.0         9.1              3,866      475.1            14.3
Smuthern L.oo                                              1,425         84.8          3.4               12        0.5    0.8         24        2.4    4.4         97        6.5    6.8             100      130.3        23.5              1,663       244.5            7.4
Bitol and Macbate                                            816         40.2          1.6               13        0.2    0.3          7        0.2     0.4        34        1.8    1.9              60       56.2          8.8                930       98.6            3.0
W.stnre Visaya.                                              883        124.          53.0                6        0.3    0.3         10        0.9     1.6        20        4.2    4.4              46       21.2          3.3                965      151.1            4.5
Eastern Visayas                                            1,372        128.8          5.2               41        3.7    6.0         72        8.2   14.9        100        7.2     7.6             94       25.2          3.9              1,664      173.1            5.2
Northern Mindea o                                          1,042        159.6          6.4               10        0.5    0.8         13        1.1    2.0         35        7.4    7.8              40       70.7         11.1              1,140      239.3            7.2
Southern Mindaaao                                          1.899        161.8          6.6               22        8.3   13.6         30       13.3   27.7         54        6.1    6.4             176        5.9         0.9               2,181      197.4            5.9
Total                                                17.506       2.477.7       100.0              246       61.4  100.0        277       55.2  100.0         684       94.9  100.0          1.093       638.9       100.0             19.806   3,328.1            100.0
(c) Size Distribution
Eelow P S0,000                                            13,356        112.5          4.5              164        1.1    1.8        581        1.4    2.5        541        3.6    3.8             866        7.0          1.1            15,108       125.6            3.8
30,000 - 100,000                                           1,216         93.4          3.8                4        0.3    0.5         19        1.4    2.5         24        1.9    2.0              57        4.3         0.7               1,320      101.3            3.0
100,000 - 200,000                                                                                         3        0.0    0.8         23        3.7    6.7         26        4.0    4.2              41        6.2         1.0
200000 - 500,000                                                                                          3        1.2    2.0         35       13.3   24.1         52       19.0   20.0              50       16.4          2.5
500,000 - 1,000000                                         1,838      1,904.0         76.8                1        0.7    1.1         11        9.8   17.8         17       13.0   13.7              31       24.9          3.9             2,211   2,675,8             80.4
1 000,000 - 2,000,000                                                                                    _         _       _          _         -       -          11       15.1   15.9               7        9.8         1,5
2,000,000 - S,000,000 O                                                                                  _                             7       25.6   46.4         13       38.3   40.4              10       38.9          6.1
Above P S,OOO,OOO                                                                                        _1                                     -       -          -         -       -               26      531,4         83.2
Unalasaifiad Ioas                                         1.096       367.8          14,9               71       57.6   93..8        -                                                                                                      ..J16      425.4           12.8
Total                                               17.506    2,477.7          100,0              246       61.4  100.0        277       55.2  100.0         684       94.9  100.0          1.093      638.9        100.0             19.806   3.328.1            100,0
1/ Simon  September 1972, loans for the rice and corn industry  re clss tified as agricultural loans,
/ Includ.loa.s for deep-sea fishing up to September 1972; these loans are now classified as agricultural loans.
EAP Projects Departannt
June 9, 1975



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Distribution of Industrial Loans Approved by Purpose. July 1, 1971 - March 31. 1975
(P thousand)
FY 1972                   FY 1973                   FY 1974                 July 1, 1974 - March 31, 1975
Ambunt         %          Amount         %          Amount          %            Amount                      %
Construction and Repair of Factories
or Office Buildings                                2,767       4.5          12,257      22.2          21,931       23.1            57,557                    9.0
Purchase,Installation and Repair of
Machinery and Equipment                            5,611       9.1          19,546      35.4          27,871        29.3          400,839                   62.8
Operating and Working Capital                           933       1.5           6,072      11.0          12,041        12.7           26,906                    4.2
Liquidation of Existing Indebtedness                 50,028      81.5          14,245      25.8          30,112       31.7             7,230                    1.1
Purchase of Site                                         -         -               55       0.1             373        0.4             3,205                    0.5
Purchase and Repair of fishing equipment 1/             211       0.4             283       0.5              -           -               -
Purchase and Repair of Conveyances                                                981       1.8           2,248        2.4
Purchase of Raw Materials                             1,829       3.0             803       1.4               83       0.1           143,188                   22.4
Others                                                                            963       1.8              264       0.3
Total                               61,379    100.0           55,205    100.0           94,923      100.0           638,925                  100.0
1/ Classified under agricultural loans since September 1972.
EAP Projects Department
June 10, 1975



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT NANX OF rhE PHILIPPINES
Characteristics of Sub-pro1ects Financed Under SERD Loan No. 998-PH
(As of Joly 31, 1975)
Total                    DBP Fin-oning                      Rates of Return         Incremental       Aanosl Eapedted       Foreign E.ohlnge
Name of nob-project                                Induotry (product)                    _cattonor Proijet Cost                    pBliRN     I-oal rosources  Tot          Financial   Economic       Employent         Export SaLes        Earnimns/ Saving.
(e million)      (million)        ---(C  million)---                                                       (5 millio)            (5 ilo)
A.  Sub-proj1ets above the free limit
A-S  Sotfs Export Specialists In.                    Leather goods (shoes)                  Central Luoon                19.8               1.9               -           13.3         40%         79%            400                 9.3                3.8
A-2  Fil-Mosaic Corporation                          Ceramics (moneic tile)                 Soothern Lbson               24.0               1.2             8.2           16.6         147.        59%            380                 3.0                2.5
A-3  Philippine PPlyatide Indnstrial Corp.           Tentiles (nylon filament yarn)         Southern Loon               144.1               5.O               -           35.1         50%         58%            246                  -                 8.8
A-4  Sta. InSs Melele Venper med Ply.ood Co.         Wood Prodocts (plywood)                Northern Mindanao             30.3              2.6               _           18.3         35%         41%            313                 6.0                5.8
A-5  Filipinet Synthetic Fiber Corp.                TIstile  (polyester yarn)               Southern Luzon              113.6               5.0               -           35.1         40%         49%            200                  -                 7.5
A-6  GPlden River Mining Corporation                Mining (gold)                           Bicel                        30.8               2.8              _            19.7         22%         70%             81                 1.8                1.3
A-7  Universal Robins Corporation                    Testiles (polyester cloth)             Greater Manila              100.3               5.0               -           35.1         22%         39%            510                  -                10.6
A-8  surigeo Concont Dvelopmten  Corp.               Food Prnduct, (coe-oat nil)            N-rthnrn Mindane-             50.1              3.1             5.7           27.5        Z8%           14%           137                34.9               34.7
A-9  Eperor Textile Mills, Inc.                      Temtile-  (woven fabrics)              Greater Manila               26.6               2.3               -           16.1         25%         12%            212                  -                 4.6
A-10 Regal Tentile Mills, Inc.                       Textilen (-aven fabrics)               Southern Luzon               54.5               4.8               -           33.7         24%         11%            438                 4.0                2.7
Sob-total                                                                                              594.1              33.7            13.9         255.5          3, V                     i% 2.917             50.0              82.3
B.  Shb-projects below the free limit
B-1  .esco International, Inc.                      Wood froducts (f-rniture)               Greater Manila                8.8               0.6               -            4.2         35%         n.e.           136                 1.3                1.4
B-2  Machine Tools Man-facturing Co.                Machinery (lathes)                      Greater Manila               10.1               0.4             2.7            5.5         28%         n.a.           187                  -                4.8
B-3  Montilla Mjanfactnring Corp.                    Garments                               Central Lzon                  3.1               0.3               -            2.1         45%          n.            266                 3.3                1.2
B-4  Forctnoff (Philippines), I.n.                   Garments                               Greater Manila                 3.5              0.2              1.0           2.4         50%         na.            360                 2.6                2.5
B-6  Wear-ver Tentils Mills, Inc.                    Tentiles                               Greater Manila                8.8               0.6             2.7            6.9         15%         n.a.            95                 1.0               0.4
Sob-total                                                                                               34.3               2.1             6.4          21.1         30%         n.a.          1,044                8.4               10.3
Total                                                                                                  628.4              35.8            20.3         271.6         35%         ma.           3.961                58.4              92.6
1/  The free limit, under thin loan, in net e US $1 million.
2/ Weighted average rate of return.
EAP Projects Department
July 30, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Summary of Guarantee Operations, July 1, 1971 - March 31, 1975
FY 1972                 FY 1973                 FY 1974             July 1, 1974 - March 31, 1975
No.      Amount         No.       Amount        No.       Amount              No.             Amount
Guarantees Approved
Domestic currency (F million)                5          10.8         7          16,6         3          12.0               1                 50.0
Foreign exchange (US$ million)
Regular guarantees                      156        157.9        94         163.6       (49         397.4             (32                 61.2
CCC and CWB credits                                 67.2                    69.1       1_           11.7               _18.5
Sub-total                        156        225.1        94         232.7        49         409.1              32                 79.7
Total (P million equivalent) 1/         161   1.673.9          101           1          52       260.0                33               609.5
Guarantees Issued
Domestic currency (P million)
Industrial                                2          1.3         4           4.4         3          14.5               2                56.0
Other                                     1          5.0         1           5.2         -           -                 -                  -
Sub-total                          3          6.3         5           9.6         3          14.5               2                 56.0
Foreign exchange (US$ million)
Regular guarantees
Industrial                          50        144.1        37          86.2        32         247.4              14                 94.3
Other                               -           -          -             -          -            -                 1                 0.5
CCC and CWB credits                     100         57.8        40          69.1        14          11.6              19                 12.5
Sub-total                        150        201.9        77         155.3        46         259.0              34                107.3
Total (P million equivalent) 1/         153      A     k        82       1  O59.2       49       1,754.2              36                809.3
Guarantees Outstanding (P million)
Opening balance                             n.a.    2,432.9        183       2,544.9       165       2,566 3             158              2,999.6
Add:  Guarantees availed of                            966.4                   708.3                  1,688.4                               986.4
Less:  Payments by borrower                            503.5                   538.5                    875.8                               601.9
Advances on guarantees                         424.1                   442.9                    323.4                               279.7
Exchange rate adjustment                                73.2                   294.5                    (55.9)                              166.2
Balance at end of period                    183      2,544.9       165       2,566.3       158       2,999.6             146              3,270.6
of which:
Domestic guarantees (P million)                     33.4                    40.8                    32.4                                40.2
Foreign guarantees (US$ million)
Regular                                       361.9                   345.1                    422.9                               445.9
CCC& CWB                                      24.5                     28.6                    18.8                                14.3
Sub-total (US$ million)                     386.4                   373.7                   441.7                                460.2
(.P million equivalent) I/               (2,511.5)               (2,525.5)               (2,967.2)                           (3,230.4)
1/ Exchange rate applied:  US $ 1.00 = P 6.500 for FY 1972
= P 6.759 for FY 1973
= P 6.717 for FY 1974
= P 7.020 for 9 months FY 1975
EAP Projects Department
June 13, 1975



'                 F'dlPHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BAN0K OF THE PHILIPPINES
Comparative Statement of Guarantee Operations., Joly 1, 1971 - March 31, 1975
FY 1972                              FY 1973                            FY 1974                July 1. 1974 - March 31, 1975                    Cumulative Total as of March 31, 1975 Y
Regolar   ICC                        Regolar    CCC                     Regolar    CCC                      Regular    CCC                     Reguiar    CCC
Foreign   6CWB    Domestic           Foreign   &CWB    Domestic         Foreign   SCWB    Domestic          Foreign   45WB      Domestic       Foreign   SCWB         Domestic              Grd Total
(US$ million)    (P million)         (US$ million)    (P million)       (US$ million)    (P million)       (US$ nillion)    (P million)        (US$ million)        (P million)       (P  i n    oalnt 2
(a) Sectoral Distribhtion of Approvals
Food menofactorieg                                  1.6      44.1       7.9              2.7      43.0        2.3          23.1      10.5         -             0.5        -          -          141.0    155.1              33.1               2,111.7
Textiles                                            0.6      20.2        -              45.1       23.0       6.0           8.7       1.1         -             0.1    13.6           -          187.1       59.0              6.5              1,734.1
Paper and paper products                          57.0        -         2.0             17.1        -          -           14.2         -         -            19.4        -          -          138.1        -                -                  969.5
Cement                                               -        -          -               6.4        -         5.2           -           -        5.3            0.7        -          -          145.8        -               14.1              1,037.6
Iron, steel and metal prodocts                      1.2       -          -              48.5       -         0.6            8.1        -          -            3.5         -          -          160.2        -                1.7              1,126.3
Mining                                             79.0       -          -              31.4        -          -             -          -         -            13.0        -          -          115.2        -                -                  808.7
Public utilities                                  15.0        -          -               5.0       -           -          168.6        -          -            4.5         -       50.0          285.7       -               65.4               2,071.0
of  hich shipping                                  -        -          -               -         -           -          (56.8)       -          -            -           -         -           (63.0)      -               (9.6)               (451.9)
hoosing, hotels, hospitals, infrastrocture           -        -          -               0.5        -          -            -           -         -             6.0        -          -           75.5        -              21.9                 551.9
Other                                               3.5       2.9       0.9              6.9        3.1       2.5         174.7       0.1        6.7           13.5      4.9          -          191.4       10.9            35.1               1,455.3
Total                                        157.9      67.2       10 8            163.6      69.1      16.6          397.4      11.7      12.0           61.2     18.5        50.0       1.440.0    225.0              177.8             11,866.1
Grand Total (P million equivalent)3/                 1.473.9                              1,589.4                            2,760.0                              609.5                                             11 866. 1
(b) Appr-vala Cl.asified bh Matoritiec
Mediom and long-tem                               148.4      67.2       -              101.4       69.1        -          375.1       11.7        -            57.7    18.5           -        1,172.9    225.0              35.0               9,848.3
Short-tem                                           9.5       -        10.8             62.2       -         166           21.7      _          12.0            3.5    _           50.0          267.1      -               142.8               2,017.8
Total                                        157,9      67.2      10.8             163.6      69.1      16.6         397.4       11.7      12.0           61.2    18.5         50.0      1440.0    225.0               177.8             11.866.1
Grand Total (P million equivalent)3/                 1.473.9                              1,589.4                            2,760.0                              609.5                                             11,866.1
(c) Goarantees Outstanding
Medium and long-tem                              341.0       24.5       5.6            316.2       28.6       5.2         381.9       18.8       4.3         434,5      14.3       19.0
Short-tem                                         20.9        -        27.8             28.9        -        35.6          41.0         -      28.1            11.4        -       21.2
Total                                        361,9      24.5      33.4            345.1       28.6      40.8         422.9       1858      32.4          445.9    14.3         40.2
Grand Total (P nillisn equivalent)3/                 2.544.9                              2,566.3                            2,999.6                            3,270.6
1/ Net of cancellations
2/ Eachange rate used:  US$1.00 - P7.02
3/ Eachange rates applied:  U5$1.00 - P6.500 for FY 1972
- P6.759 for FP 1973
- P6.717 for FY 1974
- P7.020 for 9 months FY 1975
EAP Projects Department
Juoe 16, 1975



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Sectoral Comparison of Outstanding Defaults on Guarantees,
Guarantees Approved and Guarantees Outstanding as of March 31. 1975
(Amounts in P million equivalent)
Advances on Guarantees                                             All Guarantees
No. of                  Outstanding 1/                         Amounts  2/                Outstanding
Accounts         7.        Amount               7.               Approved        %           Amount            %
Industrial
Food V                              11          12.4          269.3            28.5                 2,111.7    17.8             370.3         11.3
Textile                             28          31.5           42.0             4.4                 1,734.1    14.6             330.7         10.1
Metal, iron and steel                4           4.5           94.8            10.1                 1,126.3      9.5            201.2          6.2
Cement                               9          10.1          370.0           39.2                  1,037.6      8.7            411.8         12.6
Lumber and wood products             3           3.4            0.9             0.1                   851.8      7.2             18.1         0.6
Paper and paper products             5           5.6           36.3             3.8                   969.5      8.2            476.8        14.6
Chemicals                            2           2.2            7.9             0.8                    79.7      0.7             36.8          1.1
Public utilities                    13          14.6           24.9            2.6                  2,071.0    17.5             874.4        26.7
Mining                               1           1.1            0.2             0.1                   808.7      6.8            453.4         13.9
Others                              11          12.4           72.4             7.7                   549.0      4.6             27.3         0.8
Sub-total                       87           97.R          41R.7           27.1                11.339. 4    95 6           3,200.8        97.9
Real Estate                             2           2.2           25.4             2.7                   526.7      4.4              69.8         2.1
Total                           89          100.0          944.1          100.0                11 866.1   100.0            3.270.6       100.0
1/ of ctumulative advances on guarantees amounting to P 2,491 million as of March 31, 1975, P 740 million have been repaid and P 807
million   converted into long-term loans or acquired assets.
/ Cumulative approvals (foreign regular, CCC and CWB, and domestic guarantees) net of cancellations.
/ Includes agricultural financing.
EAP Projects Department
June 16, 1975                                                                                                                                              X0 CY



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Geographical Distribution. Maturity Structure, and Currency Exposure
of DBP's Foreign Currency Guarantees Outstandin4 as of March 31, ,1975
(US$ million equivalent)-LI
Geographical Location               Amount      _             Schedule of Installments         Amount 2/   %               outstanding Exoosure       Amount       %
Manila and Suburbs                   218.8    47.6             Up to March 31, 1975               12.0 O    2.6            US Dollars                   253.5    55.1
Ilocos and Mt. Province                3.8     0.8            April I to June 30, 1975            16.2     3.5            German Marks                  66.2    14.4
Central Luzon                         50.2    10.9            Fiscal Year 1976                    78.7    17.1             Japanese Yen                 59.5    12.9
Southern Luzon and Island             22.6     4.9            Fiscal Year 1977                    72.1    15.7            French Francs                 46.9    10.2
Bicol and Masbate                      5.7      1.2           Fiscal Year 1978                    73.3    15.9            English Pounds                 28.8     6.2
Western Visayas                        8.4      1.9           Fiscal Year 1979                    62.7    13.6             Swiss Francs                   2.4     0.5
Eastern Visayas                       29.6     6.4            Fiscal Year 1980                    50.8    11.0            Canadian Dollars                1.7     0.4
Northern Mindanao                    109.1    23.7            Beyond June 30, 1980               102.4    22.3             Belgian Francs                 0.9     0.2
Southern Mindanao                     12.0     2.6            Add:  Guarantees as yet             48.3    10.5            Danish Krone                    0.3     0.1
without schedule
Less:  Amounts unavailed of       (56.3)  (12.2)
Total outstanding            460.2   100.0                                               460.2   100.0                                          460.2   100.0
J Conversion rates used are:  DM 2.34   =  US $1.00           SF 2.52   =   US $1.00         DKr. 5.42    =       US $1.00
FF 4.21   =  US $1.00        Y  289.02 =   US $1.00         C$ 1.002      =      US $1.00
BF 34.72  =  US $1.00        L  1.00   =   US $2.41
J Includes amounts unavailed of but excludes guarantees availed of for which no repayment schedule has yet been established.
J This amount has been already paid but DBP has not yet been officially notified.
EAP Projects Department
June 16, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 10
PHILIPPINES
DEVEIDPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Suomary of Investment Opecation., July 1. 1971 - March 31, 1975
(P million)
Cumulative                                                                                                          Cuoulative
thro-Rh FY 1971         PY 1972            PY 1973             FY 1974          July 1. 1974 - Hatch 31, 1975            Total
NH.      Amount       No.    Amount      No.    Amount       No.    Amount            No.           Amount            No.    Amount
Approvals of Equity Investments -1
Proferred shares 2                                            30         205.3       -        _          _        _          1        5.0             1              10.3            32      220.6
Common chores h2                                                                             148.9       1         1.0       3        73.5            2             127.0             8       350.4
Total                                                      30         205.3       3       148.9       1         1.0       4       78.5             3             137.3            40      571.0
Equity l,vestnosts Outstanding
Opening balance                                                            0.0               252.5               355.6               390.1                          406.6
Add:  Acquisitions and conversions
Common shares                                                       35.1                99.0               59.9                46.8                           116.8
Preferred shares                                                   241.9                74.2               43.1                12.0                            25.1
Slb-total                                                     277.0               173.2               103.0                58.8                           141.9
Less:  Sales and conversions of preferred shores                           12.4               56.6                48.0                12.6                            25.7
Sales of co,msn shores                                             12.1               13.5                20.5                29.7                             0.3
Balance at end of period                                                 252.5               355.6               390.1               406.6                           522.5
of which:
Inves tmets in private companies
Cemms shares                                                        -                   81.6              102.0                77.4                            77.4
Preferred shares                                                   170.2              138.4                92.1                86.5                            85.9
Sub-total                                                     170.2               220.0               194.1               163.9                           163.3
Tnvestments in G-verten-t controlled companies
Claesn shares                                                       23.1                27.0               46.0                87.7                           204.2
Ptreferred shares                                                   59.3               108.6              150.0               155.0                           155.0
Sub-total                                                       82.3              135.6               196.0               242.7                           359.2
Investments is Long-Term Debt Securities Outatanding
Opening balance                                                            0.0                28.3                59.8                74.5                            74.0
Add:  Purchases and nonversions                                           n.a.                32.5                15.9                38.0                            42.2
Lass: Securities redeemed or sold                                         n.a.                  1.0                1.2                38.5                            83.1
Balance at end of period                                                   28.3               59.8                74.5                74.0                            33.1
Total Outstanding
Opeming balance                                                            0.0               280.8               415.4               464.6                           480.6
Add:  Acquisitions and conversions                                       n.a.                205.8               118.9                96.8                           184.1
Lass: Investments redeemed, converead or sold                            n.a.                 71.2                69.7                80.8                           109.1
Balance at end of period                                                  280.8              415.4               464.6               480.6                           555.6
1/ Includes coeversio.s into equity.
2/ Not including approval of equity investment in Greater Manila Terminal Food Market whibh amsunted to P 150 million as of March 31, 1975.
3/ Not imcludimg approval, prior to FY 1972, of equity investment in the National Housing Corporation, which -msumted to P 21.4 nillion of outstanding coemon equity held in
Government costrolled companies as of Jane 30, 1971.
EAP Projects Department
June 18, 1975



ANNEX 7
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Financial Position and Performance
General
1.        In analysing DBP's financial statements it is essential to note
that they are not prepared entirely in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles (Annex 10). The most pertinent points of departure
are:
i)  Modified-cash basis accounting:  Consistent with the
accounting practice required by the Central Bank, DBP's
financial statements are prepared on a cash basis
except for the accrual of interest expenses on outstand-
ing debts and the accrual of income on investments in
fixed income securities (preferred shares and debt
securities).
ii) Provision for doubtful accounts: Provisions for
doubtful accounts do not reflect the current condition
of DBP's portfolio.
iii)  Valuation of acquired assets:  These assets, which should
be recorded at lower of cost or current market value,
are recorded at cost regardless of market values.
2.        The above factors suggest that DBP's assets and retained earnings
are conservatively stated to the extent that accrued interest receivable
on loans would exceed accrued expenses (other than financial expenses)
payable and any additional provisions for doubtful accounts. It is diffi-
cult, however, at this time to establish DBP's financial condition using
conventional concepts, mainly because of the absence of reliable informa-
tion on: accrued interest receivable on loans; accrued non-financial
expenses payable; and the amount that should be reasonably provided to
cover doubtful accounts. Bearing these factors in mind, an analysis of
DBP's financial position and performance is undertaken below.
Financial Position
3.        Assets.  As shown in Annex 7, Table 1, DBP's total assets stood
at just over  7.8 billion as of June 30, 1975.  Changes in the composition
and growth of DBP's asset structure are sumnarized as follows:



AITNEX 7
Page 2
DBP's Asset Structure
(P million)
June 30, 1973    June 30  1974    June 30, 1975
Amount           Amount     %      Amount 
Current assets 1/                 731.8   16.0     997.1   18.9   1,544.3   19.7
of which cash & IC2            (239.3)  (5.2)   (517.9)  (9.8)   (892.7) (11.4)
Long-term loans                 3,258.3   71.1   3,035.6   57.5  4,072.1   52.0
of which advances on guar.3/(1,066.6) (23.3)   (786.9) (14.9)   (548.4)  (7.0)
Less:  Current portion 4/       371.9    8.1     303.7    5.7      392.8    5.0
Investments 5/                    488.9   10.7     482.4    9.1      567.4    7.2
Fixed and Other Assets            471.5   10.3   1,068.0   20.2   2,046.9   26.1
of which on lease              (100.3)  (2.2)   (101.5)  (1.9)   (962.7) (12.3)
Total Assets                 4,578.6  100.0   5,279.4  100.0   7,837.9  100.0
Year-to-Year growth              18.7%            15.3%             48.5%
AS shown above,the structure of DBP's assets changed substantially over the
past two years. The change in asset composition during FY 74 was attribu-
table principally,to DBP's collection efforts which led to foreclosure pro-
ceedings on several problem accounts (particularly advances on guarantees).
Fl 75, on the other hand,was characterized by a sharp increase in DBP's
asset base coupled with massive rescheduling of delinquent industrial ac-
counts. The increased level of DBP's money market operations further con-
tributed to the change in asset structure.
4.        During FY 74 outstanding advances on guarantees dropped 26% from
P 1,067 milAion to P 787 million, while acquired assets and loans under
litigation _/ increased by 126% from P 234 million to P 807 million.
Advances on guarantees as a percentage of total assets declined from 23%
to 15%, but acquired assets and litigation accounts increased from 5% to
15%. Loans outstanding (excluding advances on guarantees) increased
moderately from P 2,192 million to P 2,249 million but declined as a
1/ Including the current portion of long-term loans.
2/ Marketable securities.
3/ Advances on guarantees represent payments by DBP to honor obligations
on which the primary obligor has defaulted. They are charged to the
account of the borrower and are immediately due and payable.
4/ Principal amounts to be collected within one year.
'/ Equity investments and debt securities.
~/ Included in fixed and other assets.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
proportion of total assets. Also, DBP's holdings of cash and money market
instruments increased by 116% to P518 million, reflecting a heightened
level of DBP's short-term money market operations, caused by the need to
temporarily place an influx of short-term deposits by the Government.
5.        Accelerated growth in FY 75 reflected an across-the-board increase
in all categories of DBP's assets. Current assets increased by P547 million
largely as a result of sharply increased holdings of cash and marketable
securities (a P375 million increase over the FY 74 level) and accounted for
19.7% of total assets as against 18.9% in FY 74. Loans outstanding (includ-
ing advances on guarantees) grew by P1,036 million, reflecting the record
level of loan disbursements during the year, but as a percentage of total
assets their share declined from 58% in FY 74 to 52%. Fixed and other
assets increased by P979 million mainly because of an increase of P211
million in notes taken for interest and fees, and of P419 million in
acquired assets.  Of this amount, P359 million represented DBP's assump-
tion of foreign obligations of Iligan Integrated Steel Mills, Inc. (IISMI)
whose assets were acquired by DBP following foreclosure proceedings. Fixed
and other assets at end-FY 75 accounted for 26% of DBP's total assets
compared to 20% at end-FY 74. The income generating portion of these
assets increased sharply from 9.5% (or 2% of total assets in FY 74) to
47% (or 12.3% of total assets). DBP's long-term investments also increased
moderately from P482 million to P567 million but as a proportion of total
assets declined from 9% on FY 74 to 7%. In terms of income generation
capacity (on an accrual basis) the quality of DBP's assets appears to have
improved; collection rates are much higher on loans approved since FY 72.
But major improvements in overall profitability will only come about with
further significant improvements in loan collections.
6. Liabilities. DBP's total debts as of June 30, 1975 amounted to P5.76
billion.  In addition, DBP's contingent liabilities (guarantees) totalled
P3.51 billion. The composition and growth of its liabilities since
June 30, 1973 is shown on the following page.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
DBP's Liability Structure (P million)
June 30, 1973      June 30, 1974        June 30, 1975
Amt.        %      Amt.         %       Amt.       %
Current Maturities of L/T debt       :   466.1      10.2      280.4      5.3       616.6    7.9
Other current liabilities            :    325.4      7.1      663.8     12.6       556.5    7.1
Total Current Liabilities              791.5     17.3      944.2     17.9    1,173.1   150
(Year-to-Year Growth)            :         (-54.2%)            (19.3%)              (24.2%)
Foreign Long-Term Debt               : 1,087.7      23.8   1,005.9      19.1    1,458.7   18.6
Local Long-Term Debt                      895.2     19.5   1,112.9      21.1    1,583.2   20.2
Deposits maturing over one year I' :    365.8        8.o      466.o      8.8    1,878.4   24.0
Less Current Maturities                  (466.1)   (10.2)   (280.4)    (5.3)    (616.6)  (7.9)
Total Long-Term Debt              : 1,882.6      41.1   2,304.4      43.7    4,303.7   54.9
(Year-to-Year Growth)                      (45.1%)             (22.4%)              (86.7%)
Other Liabilities                       45.2      1.0       55.5      1.0       285.2    3.6
Equity and Retained Earnings         : 1,847.6      40.3   1,955.3      37.0    2,043.8   26.1
Reserves                                11.7      0.3       20.0      0.4        32.1    0.4
Total Net Worth                   : _1,89.3      40.6   1,975.3      37FI    2,075.9   26.5
(Year-to-Year Growth)                      (256.9%)            (6.2%)               (5.1%)
Tbtal Liabilities + Net Worth           7.      100.0   5,279.4    100.0    7,837.9  100.
(Year-to-Year Growth)                      (18.7%)             (15.3%)              (48.5%)
Contingent Liabilities            : 2,566.3             2,999.6               3,514.6
(Year-to-Year Growth)                      (0.8%)              (16.9%)              (17.2%)
1/ This figure includes short-term deposits which are assured of rollover.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
7.        With the conversion of P1.29 billion of Government debt into
equity in FY 73, DBP's total debt declined from P3.34 billion at end-
FY 72 to F2.72 billion at end-FY 73; concomittantly net worth rose by
57%.  The very sharp increase in overall debt during FY 74 reflected the
substantial inflow of deposits from the Government and Government finan-
cial institutions, and also the assumption of IISMI's foreign obligations
(p359 million, see paragraph 5). DBP's total deposit liabilities grew
by 39% in FY 74 and 219% in FY 75. These deposits which are mostly Gov-
ernment deposits, are contractually short-term; they accounted for 34.3%
of total debts.  However, DBP classifies deposits from the Government
(32.6% of total debts) as long-term debt on the assumption that, as in
previous times, a large portion of these deposits will be rolled over.
DBP's long-term debt (not including deposits subject to rollover)
remained relatively stable through FY 74 but rose by 44% in FY 75. This
increase notwithstanding, long-term loans declined as a proportion of
total debts. DBPts debt structure as of June 30, 1975 leaned much more
heavily towards contractually short-term deposits than it did at end-
FY 74. In view of the Government's surplus cash position, DBP anticipates
a continued increase in such deposits over the next year or two in the
future. The implications of this trend on DBP's capital structure,
liquidity and debt service are discussed in paragraphs 10, 11 and 12.
8.        Net Worth.  DBP's net worth as of June 30, 1975, was P2,044
million (excluding reserves for doubtful accounts); paid-in share capital
of P1,767 million accounted for 86.4% of this amount.  Since July 1, 1972,
DBP's paid-in share capital has increased by P1,370 million mainly
through the conversion in FY 73 of P1,294 million in Government and
Central Bank debt into equity, and also through the appropriation of 20%
of its annual net profit to the share capital accoUnt. Retained earnings
grew by 27.7% in FY 73, 52.0% in FY 74 and a further 26.0% in FY 75.
DBP's reserves of P32.1 million for doubtful accounts (which appear
grossly inadequate against its portfolio quality) are shown as a part of
equity instead of being treated as a reduction against related assets.
9.         api4tal Structure.  With the massive increase in share capital
in FY 73, DBP's total debt/equity ratio was reduced from 11.5:1 to less
than 3:1. Since then DBP's debt/equity structure has remained sound.
The total debt (including guarantees)/equity ratio rose to 3.2:1 in FY 74
and,with further drawdowns on borrowings and the increase in deposits,to
4.6:1 as of June 30, 1975.
10.       The debt/equity limitation (ten times DBP's paid-in capital and
surplus) under the DBP Charter (RA85) applies only to borrowings specifi-
cally contracted under Section 2(g) i.e. to those loans and other obli-
gations formally guaranteed by the Government and not to any debt owed
to the Government or contracted without a specific Government guarantee.
Since outstanding borrowings under Section 2(g) as of June 30, 1975
accounted for only PO.6 billion out of total outstanding debt of P9.3
billion (including outstanding guarantees of P3.5 billion), DBP effec-
tively operates without any debt/equity limitation. In view of DBP's
financial position, the extent of its arrearages, the overall quality



ANMEX 7
Page 6
of its financial management, and the significant role that the Bank plays
(and will continue to play) as a major creditor, a limitation on DBP's
total debt increasing capacity is considered necessary and justified. At
present DBP's total debt/equity ratio is 4:1 but with the volume of opera-
tions anticipated over the next four years the ratio is expected to reach
5.5:1 by June 30, 1979. Given the magnitude of its deposit liabilities
(34.3% of total debt), a total debt (including guarantees)/equity ratio
of 10:1 has been agreed upon for DBP under the proposed loan.
11.       Liquidity policy and position.  In addition to the reserves
required by the Central Bank 1/, DBP maintains a voluntary reserve at 30%
of total deposits in the form of investments in short-term commercial
papers. The remaining 60% of deposits (or P1,185 million as of
June 30, 1975)have been used for disbursements on long-term commitments
and for repayments of maturing obligations. As noted earlier, DBP's
deposit liabilities, mostly from the Government, are contractually short-
term; but a large part of these deposits are likely to be rolled over.
As of June 30, 1975, deposits from the Government and Government institu-
tions amounted to P1.88 billion i.e. 95% of DBP's total deposit liabili-
ties or 32.6% of DBP's total debts. Although contractually short-term in
nature and therefore strictly classifiable as current, previous
experience suggests that for analytical purposes it is justified to exclude
Government deposits from current liabilities in order to obtain an impres-
sion of DBP's operating liquidity. On this basis, DBP's current ratio as
of June 30, 1975 was slightly above unity.  However, DBP's liquidity
position, although better than in previous years, still remains tight.
12.       The Government deposits mentioned above are conceived of as a
convenient means by which the Government provides DBP with funds to meet
its financing or debt servicing requirements. But such financial arrange-
ments, given both their nature and magnitude, cause concern mainly because
of: (i) the undesirability of DBP's continual and increasingly heavy
reliance on short-term deposits (which even if rolled over are subject
to fluctuations in the short-term cash position of the Government) to
meet long-term commitments; and (ii) the implications of such reliance
for DBP's autonomy and freedom of action. Moreover, although the influx
of such deposits artificially boosts liquidity, it obscures the problem
of a negative cash flow from lending operations and serves to exacerbate
an already tight debt servicing ability. With these considerations in
mind, it was agreed that the Government would convert P400 million of its
short-term deposits with DBP into a long-term loan with a maturity of at
least 5 years. Government also undertook to bolster DBP's long-term
resource position through additions to equity and/or long term loans.
13.       Foreign Exchange Risk.  DBP continues to pass on to its clients
the foreign exxcange risk on its foreign guarantees.  The exchange risk
on foreign borrowings through the Govermnment is assumed either entirely
by the Government or shared by both the Covernment and DBP's clients.
1/ 10% of total deposits and 5% of the current portion of total deposit
substitutes (short-term borrowings maturing within 3 years).



ANNEX 7
Page 7
The former is the case of the IBRD agricultural loans and the small and
medium industry d-relopment loan; the latter applies to the IBRD DFC
loan 1/. DBP's direct foreign borrowings as of June 30, 1975 amounted
to UST205 million, of which on US$98 million, DBP had protected itself
against the exchange risk by buying forward foreign exchange cover 2/ or
by passing the risk on to its clients. On the balance of US$107 million,
DBP is exposed to the exchange risk; DBP, however, has not separately
provided for any possible exchange losses on these borrowings. During
negotiations, DBP agreed to create a foreign exchange risk reserve
account and to make an annual provision of 20% of annual net inccme until
such time as the reserve account is built up to 15% of outstanding obli-
gations on which DBP is exposed to the foreign exchange risk.
Financial Performance
14.       Profitabilit.  DBP's summarized income statements for FY f1
through FY7  are shown in Annex 7, Table 2.  Net income grew by l38.8%
in FY 74 from P38 million in FY 73 to P91 million, but declined by 21.3%
in FY 75 to P72 million. The increase in net income in FY 74 was due to
a higher overall return on assets, reflecting higher collection rates on
interest income from loans (28% over FY 73); accrued income from securi-
ties (mainly short-term money market instruments, a 159% increase) and
large capital gains on sales of securities (F4o million as against P19.4
million in FY 73). The decline in net income in FY75 is mainly due to
rapidly increased administrative expenses, reflecting higher salary costs,
office expenses and a substantial increase (F42 million) in depreciation
expenses on acquired assets.  In previous years, DBP's depreciation
charges had been insignificant. Nevertheless, the actual net profits
for FY74 and FY75 are higher (by P40.1 million for FY74 and P27.5 million
for FY75) than those projected by DBP at the time of the first DFC loan
appraisal, mainly because of a slightly higher overall return on assets
and a rate of asset growth much higher than expected.  With increased
profit and leverage since FY74, the return on average equity rose from
3.2% in FY73 to 4.8% in FY74; this return declined, however, to 3.6% in
FY75 for the reasons mentioned above. The return on share capital also
shows the same pattern, having risen from 2.2% in FY73 to 5.2% in FY74
but declining to 4.1% in FY75. DBP's profitability is still low; but
its financilal performance since the first DFC loan appraisal has exceeded
expectations and represents considerable improvement over its past record.
1/ DBP's sub-borrowers bear the foreign exchange risk on the foreign cur-
rencies of procurement; the Government assumes the exchange risk on the
foreign currencies of obligation for a fee (3/4% p.a.).
2/ Following the adoption of the floatL ig exchange rate system, the Central
Bank does not issue forward exchange covers, except on CCC and CWB credit
lines.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
15.       Income.  DBP's gross income grew by 34.8% in FY74 from P329.3
million to P443.8 million and further increased by 30.9% in FY75 to
P580.9 million. The overall return on average total assets improved
from 7.8% in FY73 to 9.0% in FY74 but declined slightly to 8.9% in FY75.
Income from long-term loans accounted for a significant share of the FY74
increase in gross income, having grown by 28.2% (or P61.7 million) to
P280.5 million. But the share of interest income from long-term loans
declined to 63.2% of gross income in FY74 from 66.4% in FY73 mainly
because it was outpaced by growth in income from money market activity.
With a sharp increase in DBP's ho.lding of short-term instruments, income
from these assets grew by 140.5% from P16.8 million in FY73 to P40.4
million in FY74 and accounted for 9.1% of gross income as against 5.1% in
FY73. Except for this change, DBP's income pattern in FY74 generally
followed that of FY73.
16.       In contrast, the increase in gross income in FY75 was accompa-
nied by major changes in DBP's income pattern. First, with a setback in
loan collections, interest income from loans declined from P280.5 million
in FY74 to P267.6 million in FY75 and accounted for 46.0% of gross income
in FY75 as against 63.2% in FY74. Second, with further increases in bank
deposits and short-term investments, income from these assets grew by
110.1% to P84.9 million in FY75 and accounted for 14.6% of gross income in
FY75 compared with 9.1% in FY74. Third, with the absence of major capital
gains on sales of securities, income from long-term investments declined
from P43.2 million (9.7% of gross income) in FY74 to about P6.5 million
(1.1% of gross income) in FY75. Fourth, guarantee and other fees, while
increasing from P59.8 million in FY74 to P68 million in FY75 declined as
a percentage of gross income from 13.5% in FY74 to 11.7% in FY75. Finally,
and most significantly, other income increased eightfold from P19.9 million
in FY74 to P153.8 million in FY75 (because of a substantial increase in
rental income from P2.9 million in FY74 to P134.0 million in FY75), repre-
senting 26.5% of gross income in FY75 as against 4.5% in FY74. This
pattern, however, is likely to be changed in the future with improved
collections on loans and an increasing outstanding balance on the loan portfolio.
17.       Expeses.  Expenses (including provisions) increased by 13.5%
to P326.2 million in FY74. They totaled P483.8 million in FY75, an
increase of 48.3% over FY74.  As a result, of increased borrowings, finan-
cial expenses accounted for the largest share of the increase in total
expenses, growing from P228.5 million in FY73 to P254.2 million in FY74
(11.2%) and P339.4 million in FY75 (33.5%). As a percentage of average
total assets, however, financial expenses showed a decline from 5.4% in
in FY73 to 5.2% in FY74 and FY75. This is attributable to a lowering in
the average cost of DBP's long-term resources that followed the conver-
sion of some debt into share capital in FY73 and DBP's assumption of
IISMI's relatively low cost foreign borrowings (F359 million equivalent
at 5.75 - 6.0% p.a.) in FY75. Administrative expenses increased by 10%
to P63.6 million in FY74 and by 102% to P129.4 million in FY75. The FY75
increase is attributable to a P42 million increase in depreciation expenses
on acquired assets and a P13.1 million increase in personnel expenses.
Consequently administrative expenses accounted for a higher proportion of



ANNEX 7
Page 9
total expenses in FY75 and increased as a percentage of average total
assets from 1.3% in FY74 to 1.9% in FY75. Provisions for doubtful
accounts allocated from net income amounted to P8.4 million in FY74;
DBP increased this amount to P15 million in FY75.
EAP Projects Department
October 31, 1975



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BAIJC OF THE PHILIPPINES
Sun-arized Balance Sheets as of June 30. 1971-75
(P Million)
An of June 30                                                                                                                 As of June 3D
1971       1972        1973         1974        1975                                                                          1971        1972         1973        1974         1975
ASSETS                                                                                                                 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Assets:                                                                                                        Current Liabilities:
Cash and due from  banks                  112.6        06.9         105.6       117.1       406.1                      Savings & time deposits (maturing                  61.8        62.3         80.6       152.8         95.9
Marketable securities                      20.0        25.2         133.7       400.0       486.6                        within one year)
Short-tern  advances                       27.9        44.9         58.3         66.3        95.8                      Short-ten borrowings - local                      213.0       258.7        112.3       275.8        188.3
Accrued ijcose                              5.0         3.4           4.3        10.3        33.0                                               - foreign                  -           19.6        13.5          -          17.6
Accounts receivable                        10.9        49.0         58.0         99.9       130.0                      Accounts payable and accrued expense              169.2       254.8        119.0       235.2        254.7
Current portion of long-term  loansl/  n.a.           329.4         371.9       303.7       392.8                      Current maturities of long-term  debt             327.5    1.132.7         466,1       280.4        616.6
Total current assets                 176.4       538.8         731.8       997.1    1.544.3                           Total current liabilitiens/                   771.5    1.728,1         791.5        944.2    1.173,1
Long-term Loans:                                                                                                       Long-ten Debt:
Agricultural loans                        375.0       382.9        611.6        695.0    1,001.9                       Foreign currency borrowings                       329.7       607.4    1,087.7       1,005.9      1,458.7
Industrial loans                       1,830.2    2,165.5        2,358.9    2,048.3    2,568.6                         Local currency borrowings                      1.516.1    1.548.2          895.2    1,112.9      1.583.2
Real Estate loans                         180.9       185.4        178.4        169.8       353.4
Government and landed estate loans    55.8             54.4         .49.7        58.8        69.6                          Total                                       1,845.8     2,155.6      1,982.9     2,118.8    3,041.9
Contract Mortgage receivable               20.7        26.2          27.8        28.5        27.0
Private developnent bank (advances    25.6             29.0          31.9        35.2        51.6                      Less:  Current maturities                         327.5    1,132.7         466.1       280.4        616.6
and rediscount)                                                                                                     Add:  Deposits maturing beyond
one year                                286.3        274.6       365.8        466.0    1.878.4
Total long-termiloa,s              2,488.2    2,843.4        3,258.3    3,035.6    4,072.1                                        t-db(.)4307
Less:  Current portion..                   n.a.       329.4        371.9        3035.67     392.8                         Total long-term  debt (nat)                 1.804.6    1.297.5    1,882.6         2.304.4    4.303,7
Total long-term  loans (net)    2.488.2    2.514.0           2,886.4    2.731,9    3,679.3                      Special Funds                                     _11.6          267.9          2.2       1.,3         -
of which Advances on guarantees:(  690.1)   ( 919.1)   (1,066.6)    ( 786.9)   ( 548.4)
Investments:                                                                                                           Deferred Credits                                     25.8        43.2         43.0        54.2        285.2
Equity - preferred                        229.5       247.0        242.1        241.5       253.4
comsmon                         23.0        108.6        148.0        165.1       281.2                   Equity:
private development banks    24.8            25.0         24.3          1.8         2.2                      Paid-in share capital                             390.3       397.0    1,703.1       1,735.6    1,766.9
Bonds                                      28.3        59.8         74.5         74.0        30.6                      Retained earnings                                 103.1       113.2        144.5       219.7        276.9
-eserve for doubtful accounts                       9.6        10.7         11.7        20.0        32.1
Total investments                    305.6       440.4         488.9       482.4        567.4
Total equity                                  503.0       520.9    1,859.3    1.975.3         2,075.9
Fined assets (net)                           53.7        56.8          54.1        61.4        65.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                   3  7,        3.857.6    4.578.6       5.279.4    7.837,9
Other Assets:
Property acquired through                 140.5       146.2         159.7       724.7    1,143.7                     Contingencies:
foreclosure
(of which on lease)                    ( - )      (100.2)       (100.3)    (101.5)   ( 962.7)                       Guarantees outstanding
Loans under litigation                  50.0         65.6         83.7         82.0        63.5                        Foreign:  medium- and long-term                332.0        365.5        344.7       400.7       486.4
Others                                  62.1         95.8        174.0        199.9       774.6                        ($million)short-term                            38.1         20.9        29.0         41.1         9.0
Total other assets                   252.6        307.6        417.4    1.0066,   1.981.8                            Local:  medium- and lang-term                    8.6          5.6         5.3          4.3        18.3
(P mllion)short-term                            32.3         27.8        35.6        28.1         21,1
TOTAL ASSETS                       3276.5         3,857.6   4578.6    5.279.4                                          Total - Pso equivalent/ 2744685 2.544.9    2.566,3    2999.6    3514.6
Trust funds administered on                                                                                            Trust funds administered on
behalf of the Govermnent:                 180.1       186.7         124.3        77.8        85.8                      behalf of the Government:                         180.1       186.7        124.3        77,8         85.8
Ratios:
.1/  Estimated principal amounts collectible within one year.                                                             Current ratio                                       -         0.3:1       0.9:1        1.1:1        1.3:1
Total debt (including guarantees)
/  These figures are tentative, DBP does not generally have readily available data on                                      to equity _/                                  10.4:1       11.5:1        2.8:1       3.2:1        4.6:1
current maturities; however an attempt is being made by DBP to provide precise figures                               Long-term debt (including
shortly.                                                                                                               long-term  guarantees) to equity              8.1:1         7.2:1       2.3:1        2.6:1       3.8:1
3/  Exchange Rate:  P6.5 to U0$ 1 for 1971 and 1972; P6.76 for 1973; P6.7 for 1974;
and P7.02 for 1975.
4/  In these calculations, reserve for doubtful accounts were deducted from equity.
EAP Projects Department                                                                                                                                                                                                                        _    -
September 25, 1975



AINE 7
DEVELOPINTT BAIK OF THE PHILIPPINES                  Table 2
Sumnarized Income Statements
for the years ended June 30, 1971 through 1975
(p 00)O)
June 30
Fiscal Years Ended                     1971      1972     1973       1974       1975
Income
Interest on - agricultural loans     26,280    29,691   39,101    61,078     53,126
- industrial loans      115,206   134,8b7  154,309   191,097    184,253
- real estate loans      15,870    17,674   20,480    22,038     24,579
- PDB redisc. & CMR       3,269     3,624    4,895     6,323      5.643
Sub-total                           162,625   186,276  218,7b5   280,536    267,601
Interest on securities                1,091     2,524   14,220    36,807     63,792
Dividend income                      19,588    13,448    7,745      3,228      4,657
Capital gains on sales of securities    -         -    19,428    40,012        1,854
Guarantee fees                       30,687    45,835   40,519    54,113      55,578
Administration fees on trust funds    1,118     1,121    1,026        547        228
Others                               16,62    18,734   27,591t   28,567    187,213 /
Total                               231,671   267,934  329,317   443,810    560.923
-Expenses
Financial expenses                  149,335   166,245  228,529   254,219    339,388
Salaries and other personnel         45,300    45,571   37,285    38,224      51,261
expenses
Other administrative expenses        16,907    17,49b   20,533    25,340      78,219 
Total                               211,512   249,31)1 2b6,347   317,783    468,798
Income before income tax &           20,329    18,620   42,970   126,027    112,125
orovision
Less:  Income tax                     7,609     6,191    3,724    26,791      25,708
Reserve for contingencies      1,200     1,200    1,200     8,400      15,000
NET IN0ONg                           11,520    11,229   38,o46    90,836      71,417
_poronriations
Transfered to paid-in capital         2,30h     2,246    7,609    lb,167      14,283
Transferred to surplus                9,216     6,903   30,437    72,669      57,134
Ratios
I.  As % of average total assets:
1.  Gross income                     7.8       7.5      7.6       9.0         b.9
2. Financial e-xoenses               5.1       5.2      5.1,      5.2        5.2
3.  aroso spread (1-2)               2.7       2.3      2.1,      3.8         3.7
)6. Administrative expenses          2.l       1.6      1.-l      1.3        1.9
5.  Income before tax and             .7        .5      1.0        2.5        1.7
provisions
HI. het income as % of:
1.  Average equity32                 2.4       2.2      3.2       L.8         3.6
2. Share capital                     3.0       2.b      2.2       5.2        4.1
III. Other ratios
1.  Interest income on loans as ,    7.2       7.0      7.2        8.9        7.5
of average loan portfolio
2.  Cost of debt as % of average     6.F       7.2      8.6       9.1         7.5
debts
3. Average interest spread-          o.]i    - 0.2    - 1.4     - 0.2         0.0
1/  Includes rental income from acquired assets of P134,002,537 and interest income
on deposits of P21,109,056.
Includes depreciation on acquired assets of P42,220,154.
3/ Excluding reserve for doubtful accounts from equity.
i  Average interest spread is low or negative since DBP reported interest income
on loans on cash basis and interest expenses on accrual basis.
EAP Projects Department
September 24, 1975



ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Portfolio Analysis
Long-term Loan Portfolio
1.        Data on past due long-term accounts is shown in Annex 8,
Table 1.  Despite the progress achieved by DBP in reducing arrears over
the past year, overdue accounts continue to pose the main financial
problem DBP confronts. The following table summarizes the arrears
situation.
DBP: Arrears on Loan Accounts
(Amounts in P million)
Outstanding Accounts         Accounts in Arrears
No.      Amount       No.    Amount   Princiyal Aff.
W 7A-       (T         T-CT      (D)(E
Total Loan Portfolio
As of June 30, 1974 : 122,276    2,457.0    69,231    576.1    1.443.3
As of June 30, 1975 : 177,783    3,634.1   106,779    561.7    1,700.6
Ratios           FY74 :                         56.6% -/  23.5%      58.7% 3/
FY75 :                         60.0% 1/ 15.5% 2/ 46.8% 3/
Industrial Loans
As of June 30, 1974 :   5,426    1,479.8       4,459    319.4       880.0
As of June 30, 1974 :   7,954    2,107.1       5,767    267.3       929.6
Ratios           FY74 :                          82.2% 1/ 21.6%  / 59.5% 3
FY75 :                         72.5% I/  12.7% 2/  44.1% 3/
1/ C as % of A;  2/ D as % B;  3/E as % of B.
DBP: Age Structure of Arrears for FY74 and FY75
(Amounts in P million)
June 30, 1974                June 30, 1975
All Loans     Ind. Loans    All Loans      Ind. Loans
Amt.     %mt. %              Amt.          Amt     %_
Less than 12 mos.   15.6    2.7    4.8    1.5   21.0    3.7    7.9    3.0
More than 12 mos. 560.5   97.3  314.6   98.5  540.7  96.3  259.4   97.0
576.1  100.0  319.4  100.0  561.7  100.0  267.3  100.0



ANNEX 8
Page 2
As of June 30, 1975, about 60% of the total number of accounts were in
arrears; principal and interest overdue amounted to P 561.7 million, or
15.5% of the total outstanding loan portfolio 1/. The principal affected
by arrearages amounted to P 1,700.6 million or 46.8% of total principal
outstanding.  Of the industrial loan accounts (which represent 4.4% of
the total number of accounts but about 58% of the principal outstanding),
72.5% were in arrears with principal and interest overdue on these
accounts amounting to P 267.3 million or 12.7% of the industrial loan
portfolio.
2.        Reflecting the Government's concern, a Presidential Decree
(P. D. 385) was passed in January 1974, requiring government financial
institutions (in particular DBP) to mandatorily foreclose on loans and
advances for which arrears exceeded 20% of outstanding obligations.
In the wake of this measure, DBP's loan collection efforts were stepped
up; unfortunately, with the economic downturn in FY 75 which affected
several major Philippine industries (particularly the export oriented
ones), DBP had to slacken its pressure on borrowers to repay. This
factor notwithstanding, the main reasons for the high level of arrears
are: (i) the inadequacy of DBP's system and practices for recording
and reporting arrears; (ii) poor follow-up and oollection practices;
(iii) low penalty rates which make it profitable for borrowers to post-
pone repayments, placing their funds instead in the money market; and
(iv) overdues on several large industrial accounts which should have
been rescheduled two or three years ago.
3.        The appraisal mission discussed the arrears problem with DBP
in May and suggested various courses of action to bring it under control
through: (i) improving the recording and reporting of arrears; (ii)
revamping the system of reminding and billing clients for past-due
accounts; (iii) revising penalty charges to eliminate the incentive for
borrowers not to repay DBP on time; and (iv) strengthening follow-up and
supervision. The need to restructure several large industrial accounts
which have been piling up arrears over the last three to four years (about
63% of the actual arrearages on industrial loans are more than 2 years
overdue), is pressing. When the peso was devalued in 1970, the obliga-
tions of foreign currency borrowers rose by about 70%. Repayment of
these obligations along previous amortization schedules was simply not
possible with the result that a large number of borrowers defaulted on
loans and guarantees. Under the terms of Loan No. 998-PH, DBP had under-
taken to review the need for rescheduling of all its industrial accounts,
on an account-by-account basis and at a rate of 30 accounts per quarter.
IPD-I started such a review of its accounts last year, but its staffing
problems prevented it from keeping to the review schedule.  Between
July 1974 and March 1975, fifty-two accounts had been reviewed of which
eighteen were rescheduled, seventeen put on an interim payment plan (to
determine their debt servicing capacity) and a further seventeen had
foreclosure proceedings instituted against them. Following discussions
1/ Including trust funds but excluding advances on guarantees.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
with the mission, DBP decided to reschedule immediately a number of its
loans and advances on guarantees notably to cement companies which were
among DBP's most seriously delinquent large industrial clients. DBP also
expressed willingness to take immediate action to improve its recording
and reporting of arrears. Since the appraisal mission's visit in May,
DBP has actually rescheduled or put on an interim payment-plan industrial
loans and advances on guarantees for an amount totalling P 795 million.
This measure explains the improvement in the arrears situation over the
past year.
4.    DBP's loan portfolio by sector covers a broad spectrum and
appears well diversified, with the industrial sector accounting for the
largest share (58.0% by amount) followed by agriculture (27.2%), real
estate (9.8%) and others (5.0%). Within the industrial sector, non-
metallic products (mostly cement) account for 19.9% of all loans out-
standing; textiles and garments 8.7%; food processing (mainly sugar) 8.5%;
public utilities 7.4%; and other sub-sectors (with less than a 3.0% share
each) 13.5%. The arrears (both actual amounts in arrears and principal
affected by arrears) generally follow the pattern of the sectoral distri-
bution of DBP's loan portfolio.
Guarantee Portfolio
5.     DBP's guarantee portfolio as of June 30, 1975, stood at P 3,514.6
million. Arrears relating to DBP's guarantee portfolio (advances on guar-
antees) have declined both in absolute and in relative terms over the
last year, mainly as a result of extensive conversions of advances into
long-term loans which, in the fourth quarter of FY 75 alone, amounted to
P 478.5 million. The following table illustrates the situation since
Fl 73.
DBP : Arrears on Guarantee Accounts
(Amount in P million)
July 1, 1974 -
FM73       FY74       March 31, 1975   FY75
Advances on guarantees
during period                       442.9       323.4           279.7       375.2
Less: Repaid to DBP during
period                              128.6       146.1             58.4       68.4
Less: Converted to long-term
loans                               165.3       367.1             60.7      539.2
Less: Transferred to litigation
accounts or acquired assets,
etc.                                  1.3        89.9              3.4        6.1
(a) Advances outstanding
at end of period             1,066.6       786.9           944.1       548.4
(b) Guarantees outstanding
at end of period             2,566.3    2,999.7          3,270.7    3,514.6
(a)  as % of (a + b)                  41.6%      26.2%            22.14%      13.5%



ANNEX 8
Page 4
6.     Complete information on DBP's outstanding guarantees affected by
arrears is not available. Partial information on 76 clients for which
DBP's outstanding -uarantees totalled P 1,826 million as of March 31, 1975,
indicates that only nine clients (with outstanding guarantees amounting to
P 942 million) have repaid their obligations regularly. The remaining 67
clients, who had outstanding guarantees of P 884 million, had received
advances on guarantees of P 892 million (or 94% of total advances on guar-
antees) as of March 31, 1975. It would therefore appear that about 50% of
DBP's guarantee portfolio is affected by arrears. The same factors as
those noted in paragraphs 2 and 3 for arrears on loans, have also contributed
to the high arrears on guarantees.
7.     By sector, DBP's guarantee portfolio is also reasonably well
diversified. As of March 31, 1975, the latest date for which information
is available (see Annex 6, Table 8), public utilities accounted for the
largest share (26.7%) of outstanding guarantees, followed by paper
(14.6%), mining (13.9%), cement (12.6%), food processing (11.3%), textiles
(10.1%) and others (10.8%).  However, unlike DBP's loan portfolio, advances
on guarantees (defaults on guarantees) were heavily concentrated in three
industrial sub-sectors -- cement (39.2% for 9 accounts), food (28.5%,
11 accounts) and metals (10.1%, 4 accounts).  In the cement industry, for
instance, DBP's financial assistance to nine cement companies as of
March 31, 1975, amounted to P 792 million (including advances on guarantees
of P 370 million and outstanding guarantees of P 412 million) or 7.7% of
DBP's total portfolio as of that date. Defaults by these companies, how-
ever, totalled P 556 million (including additional interest) as of
March 31, 1975, and accounted for about 40% of DBP's total arrears. In
June 1975, DBP rescheduled loans and advances on guarantees on eight of
its cement accounts for an amount of P 554.1 million, thus alleviating
the arrears problem and reducing the extent to which it is unnecessarily
exaggerated.
Investment Portfolio
8.     DBP's investment portfolio as of June 30, 1975 totalled P 567.4
million or 7.4% of DBP's total long-term portfolio (including guarantees).
Of these, comon share investments in 7 private companies amounted to
P87.2 million (or 16% of total investment portfolio); preferred share
investments in 19 private companies, P 85.9 million (or 15%); common share
investments in 5 public companies, P 194.0 million (or 34%); preferred
share investments in 3 public companies, P 167.5 million (or 29.6%);
preferred share investments in seven private development banks, P 2.2
million (or 0.4%); and investments in long-term debt instruments, P 30.6
million (or 5%).
9.     An analysis carried out by DBP in April 1975 indicated that,
out of 23 private companies in which it had made equity investments, ten
were operating profitably, six were opereting at a loss, three were in
litigation; the profitability of the remaining four was unknown. Only
nine companies had declared dividends in the past 12 months. No market
value of total equity investments was available since only one company's
shares (Marinduque 1ning and Industrial Corporation) were listed on the



ANNEX 8
Page 5
stock exchange.  As of March 31, 1975, DBP held about 9.5 million Marinduque
shares (P 5.46 per share at cost; market price as of May 26, 1975 was P 17.5
per share). Sales of Marinduque shares yielded capital gains of P 19.4 million
in FY 73 and P 40 million in FY 74, boosting the overall return (dividend plus
capital gains) on average equity investment from 4% in FY 72 to 7% in FY 73 and
11% in FY 74.
Acquired Assets Portfolio
10.       DBP's balance sheet as of June 30, 1975 showed P 1,144 million
under "Acquired Assets" and P 64 million under "Loans under litigation".
After the enactment of Presidential Decree No. 385, DBP foreclosure proceedings
were initiated on seriously delinquent accounts. As a result "Acquired Assets",
i.e. foreclosed accounts for which the collateral has been taken over by DBP,
increased from P 160 million in FY 73 to P 1,144 million at end-FY 75.  Three
large accounts (out of some 700 accounts at head office) represented 86% of total
acquired assets. The largest (former Iligan Integrated Steel Mills' (IISMI)
assets) amounting to P 826 million at cost is being rented for P 96 million a
year to National Steel Corporation since February 1974, for a period of five
years.  The second largest (the former Magdal7a Estate) amounting to P 99.5
million at cost is being rented for P 300,000- a year to an automobile assembly
plant. The third largest block of assets (the former Bay View Hotel properties)
amounting to P 66 million at cost is being rented for P 5 million a year to two
hotel development corporations for 20 years with option to purchase for R total
of P 130 million.  Under these lease contracts, DBP earned P 134 million/t from
rental of acquired assets during FY 75 or an annual return of 14% on average
acquired assets. As noted in Annex 7, paragraph 1, all the acquired assets 3re
recorded at cost to DBP. Appraisals of these assets done several years ago3
have not been updated.  In the absence of current appraisals, it is not possible
to estimate DBP's likely losses or gains on its acquired assets. However, pursuant
to Pre idential Decree No. 251, DBP plans to transfer most of these acquired
assets- to the Land Bank of the Philippines under negotiated terms. DBP expepts
to receive adequate compensation and is presently negotiating the mechanics of the
transfer with the Land Bank.
11.       Of loans under litigation totalling P 64 million as of June 30, 1975,
P "0 million or 75% represented 58 industrial accounts for which legal action
is being taken. The most common problem encountered with these industrial accounts
is inadequate management. Some of these accounts are 12 years overdue. DBP
estimates an eventual loss of up to P 2.3 million on these industrial accounts.
1/ Only part of the assets are under lease.
2/ Including P 32 million of rental income accrued in FY 74.
3/ Appraisal value of two large accounts alone indicates a potential loss
of up to P 272 million.
h/ EExcept for those under lease and under redemption period (one year from
DBP's take-over during which original owner has option to redeem DBP's
total claims).



ANNEX 8
Page 6
Provisions for Doubtful Accounts
12.       DBP's balance sheet of June 30, 1975 shows a "Reserve for
doubtful accounts" of P 32.1 million as part of equity. The level of
provisions is currently based entirely on the recommendations of the
Central Bank's examiners upon completion of their annual audit of
DBP's portfolio.  However, the Central Bank's recommendations, based
on its review of DBP's portfolio as of June 30, 1974 had not reached
DBP at the time of the mission's visit in May 1975. Consequently,
DBP's provisions for doubtful accounts do not reflect the condition of
its portfolio as of the balance sheet date. In any case, DBP's
accumulated provisions of P 32.1 million appear grossly inadequate in
view of the aggregate arrears on loans and guarantees totalling P l.Il
billion and dubious quality of acquired assets amounting to P 1.14
billion as of end FY 75. In the absence of current appraisals of
collaterals and of an adoquate examination of clients' performance
and prospects, it is not, possible at present to establish DBP's potential
losses or gains on its portfolio and acquired assets, or to determine an
appropriate level of reserves.
EAP Projects Department
October 31, 1975



ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES                                                      Table I
DEVELOP118Nr BANX OF TRE PHILIPPINES
AceWales of Loan Portfolio Co of JSoa  30. 1975
(A,ooote to i etllioo)
Nuabte  of Aao.oots                            Princlool Ootstepdieo                    Pri-ci-l a-d Ieter.et i. Arreart
I.dostri.l                  All                  Induttriel                All                  I.d.etrial                All
Lons           7%         .. Lon s               Loane          %       toes         %         Loae           %        Loae         %
A. Stotio of lac portfolio
Laane sorviclog regelarly                         2,187         27.5        71,004     39.9        1,177.5       55.8     1,933.4     53.2
Io arrears far lees  tI 1 year                      733          9.2        24,456     13.9          144.5      6.9         277.9      7.6            7.9        3.0       21.0       3.8
Sub-tatal                                     2,920         36.7        95,460     53.7        1.322,0      62.7      2.211.3     60.8           7.9         3.0       21.0       3.8
In arroars foe:  I - 2 yearo                      1,942         24.4        41,636     23.4          439.4       20.9       767.2     21.1          90.4        33.8      157.8      28.1
2-5 yenre                          313          3.9       25,622     14.4           121.5       5.8       311.8       8.7          86.7       32.4       204.1      36.3
Over 5 yoere 2/                  2.779         35.0       15.065      8.5           224.2      10.6        339.8      9.4          82.3       30.8       178.8      31.9
Sub-total                                     5.034         63.3        82,323     46.3          785.1       37.3     1.422.8     39.2          259.4       97.0      540.7      96.2
Total                                         779_54        190.9                 19.0         2            100.0     3634.      19             267.3      1900       561.7      100 0
B. G.oaraPhicol distribation
Maoile and Soborbe                                1,935          24.3        4,089      2.3           697.7      32.7       897.6      24.7         152.8       57.1       179.2      31.7
Ilroe cad Maont P-roviop                           319          4.0         3,222      1.8           46.3        2.2       111.8      3.1            3.4        1.3        8.1        1.4
Cagayao Valley opd Batanes                          524           6.6       12,366      7.0             9.5       0.5       102.6       2.8           0.9        0.3        19.5       3.5
Ceotrel Le.on                                     1,302          16.4       35,039     19.7           373.6      17.7       652.8      18.9          29.2       10.9        95.3      17.0
Southaro LaaoL                                      862          10.8       17,509      9.8          209.9        9.9       358.3      9.9           39.7       11.5       72.9       12.9
Bicol and Macbate                                   388           4.9       13,178      7.4            10.4       0.5        86.2       2.4           1.8        0.7        15.0       2.7
Westero Vioayes                                     390           4.9       19,221     10.8           122.1       5.8       287.2       7.9          16.2        6.1        38.6       6.9
Eoastra Vinayes                                     809          10.1       18,081     10.2           250.2      11.9       355.8       9.8           7.5        2.8        21.3       3.8
Narthern HMidaoca                                   506           6.4       20,193     11.4           346.3      16.4       452.4      12.4          20.9        7.8        40.6       7.2
Southern 4icda.a.                                   928          11.6       34.885     19.6            51,2       2.4       329.4       9.0           3.9        1.5        73.1      13.0
Tatal                                         7.954         100.0      17.7783    120.0        217.1        10.9      3,634      1000            673       100.0      561.7      10090
Noeber of At..oota       Principal Otcta.ndi.o      Principal ead Interest in Arrearn 2  Principal uOtetandie
No. of                                 Affec-nd by Arrears        (B) at %     (C) aa T
.Nuber         %            Amnt           %        Accounts    7.       A-noot     7.       Aount           %         of (A)        of (A)
(A)                                          (B)                 (C)
C. Anolvein by nine
Up to F 50,00                                   172,543        97.0            780.3      21.5        103,716     97.1    146.1    26.0          433.9      25.5         18.7          55.6
p 59,001 to P 2.5 nillion                         5,062          2.9           937.0      25.8          2,968      2.8    254.4   45.3           544.9      32.0         27.2          58.2
Over   2.5 nillian                                  178          0.1         1.916.8      52.7             95      0.1    161.2    28.7          721.8      42.5          8.4          37.6
Total                                       177.783        19                                     0 1.8  186.779    100.0    561.7 1.700.86            199.          15.5          46.8
S. lte.oral diarribotion
ladustril aLne :
Fpd neauf-aturing                                 330          0.2           308.3       8.5            194      0.2     20.0     3.5          106.2       6.3          6.5          34.4
Nice nd cope indootry                             106         0.1              6.6       0.2            84       0.1      4.4     0.8            6.1       0.4         66.6          93.3
Beverage induatey                                  10           -              2.0       0.1             4        -       0.5     0.1            0.7       8.1         25.0          33.8
Ccorner products cad ic  Prep.                     21           -              1.5       9.2             13       _       2.4     0.4            3.9       0.2         43.6          71.0
Tobacco  -aaefacters                                5           -             48.4       1.3              3       -       1.8     0.3            2.0       0.1          3.7           4.1
Tontile, cordage nd twine                         108         0.1            292.8       8.1             78      0.1     51.0     9.1          146.9       8.7         17.4          50.2
Wearing  1pparel/nds-up tentilee                  189          0.1            29.7       9.6            125      0.1      4.4    098            15.4       9.9         21.3          74.5
Wood, eaee   d cork                                70           -             35.1       1.0             51       -       8.0     1 4           16 1       9.9         22.5          45.2
Pr_iotura nd fi auoe                              121         0.1             15.8       0.4             87      0.1      1.9     0.4            9.7       0.6         12.0          61.5
Paper nd paper indostries                          32           -             91.3       2.6             21       -      18.1     3.2           79.6       4.7         19.0          83.5
Printing publiahing ad allied indu tries          121          9.1            12.0       0.3            103      0.1      4.1     0.7           10.4       0.6         34.2          86.8
L.atber nd leaethr pr-dueot                        98          0.1            11.5       0.3             76      0.1      3.6     0.6            9.1       0.5         31.3          79.0
robber pradeeto                                    29           _             11.1       0.3             21       -       3.4     0.6           10.2       0.6         30.6          92.2
Chenipala nd obelexcal predects                    65           -             38.5       1.1             51       _       8.0     1.4           31.1       1.8         20.8          80.6
Petrolen nd coal predocts                           4           -              0.2        -              4        -       0.1      -             0.2        -          50.0         100.0
Non-etallic pradoots                              208          0.1           721.7      19.9            120      0.1     19.1     3.4          196.0      11.5          2.6          27.2
Metal indu-tri.s ad pradocte                      167          0.1            67.4       1.8            136      0.1     18.2     3.2           54.8       3.2         27.0          81.2
Machinney (ecoluding nie.. -chi.eee)               77           -              9.1       0.3             51      0.1      1.4     0.2            7.7       0.5         15.4          84.9
Electrical .-hi.bery 6 appaeaton                   48           -             34.9       0.9             30       -       2.9     0.1           15.8       0.9          8.0          45.4
Traip. eqoip sat cd repairs                       280          0.1            20.0       9.5            155      0.2     10.7     1.9           14.8       0.9         33.5          74.2
Miscellnaoon nanofactoriog                        128          0.1            24.8       0.7             93      0.1      4.4     0.8           13.5       0.g         17.7          54.5
Entractive indostrics                              68           -             18.1       0.5            48        -       9.2     1.6           17;4       1.0         50.8          96.0
P.blic utiliten 6& aerviee                        992          0.6           279.8       7.4            554      0.5     65.6    11.7          147.3       8.7         24.2          54.4
Cottage iodoatrien                                686          9.4             4.2       0.1            503      0.5      0.9     0.2            2.4       0.1         21.4          56.7
SInl Ilea                                       3,842          2.2            14.9       0.4          3,054      2.9      3.0     0.6            8.8       0.5         20.1          59.3
Nnn-bnking ieatitotiaea                             5           -             13.7       0.4              1       -        -       -             1.9       0.1           -           14.1
Wholenala trade                                    23           -              1.9       0.1             18       -       0.1     0.1            0.7        -           5.3          37.2
Retail trde                                       209          0.1             1.4        _              93      Q,1      0.2     0.1            0.8       0.1         14.3          58.7
Slb-total                                     7.954         4.5          2,107.1      58.0         5.767       5.4    267.3    47.6          929.6      54.7         12.7          44.1
Agricoultral Loan                               143.846        80.9            989.7      27.2        82,937      77.7    243.4   43.3          572.0       33.6         24.6         57.8
Real Entcoe Lone                                 21,075        11.9            355.5       9.8        14,992      14.0     26.6     4.8         117.6        6.9          7.5         33.1
Gopen-eat 6 Landed Eatote Loan                      302         0.2             72.4       2.0            30        -       7.3     1.3          20.7        1.2         10.1          28.6
Coat_act Mortgage Receivable                      3,472         1.9             57.8       1.6         2,626       2.5     11.8     2.1          43.6        2.6         20.4          75.5
Ad-cce. & Redi-coocta - PDB                     1.134           0.6             51.6       1.4           427    0.4         5..    0Q9           17.1        1.0         100.3        33.2
Total                                       177.783        109           36341       100.0        106.79    1         561.7   180.9        1,700.6     190.0         15.5          46.8
j/  IecIuding Ioa  in litigation, treat fbode ad .ollet-ral preferred etoobk.  Enalodos ad-mces Pn gu-enteac.
if Inciuding occooeta tith insuffici-nt data (about 4% of total arrears).
?/ About 67% of theno anunet ropraen.t principal in arrears; 33% inter.et in arrears.
EAP Protjcta Beparenn
Octob-r 3, 1975



ANNEX 9
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Statement on Reserves Policy to be Adopted by DBP
1.        The policies set forth below will guide the accumulation of DBP's
reserves in future years.
Objectives
2.        The basic objectives of DBP's policies and actions in this regard
will be to accumulate a level of reserves which will adequately provide for:
(i) a reasonable level of protection against losses on loan accounts and
equity investments; (ii) the ability to cover, possible losses on con-
tingent liabilities incurred by MBP; and (iii) protection against potential
losses caused by fluctuations between the value of the peso and other
currencies which DBP may have borrowed and on which it bears the full or
partial exchange risk. Accordingly, DBP will provide, by charges against
income, reserves consistent with * (i) the size and auality of its outstand-
'ing guarantee portfolio; and (ii) outstanding foreign borrowings on which
DBP is exposed to risk.
3.        Specifically, DBP will make separate provision for the following:
(i) reserves against doubtful accounts and investments;
(ii)  reserve to provide for foreign exchange risk; and
(iii) a contingency reserve.
Reserves for Doubtful Accounts and Investments
4.        DBP's auditors will henceforth carry out a full and comprehensive an-
rual review of the quality of its loan and investments portfolio, in order to
determine the adequacy of provisions for losses. Based on their recommenda-
tions IBP will include such provisions in its financial statements. In
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles DBP will show
such provisions as a reduction of the related assets instead of an alloca-
tion of surplus and reserve.
Foreign Exchange Risk Reserve
5.        DBP will create a foreign exchange risk reserve account, separate
from the contingency reserve account. This account would be built up
through the appropriation of 20% of annual net income, to a minimum level



ANNEX 9
Page 2
of 15% of total foreign liabilities on which DBP bears the exchange risk.
Contingency Reserve
6.       DBP will appropriate the entire balance of its annual net income,
after appropriations have been made for share capital (20% of net income
is to be appropriated to the capital account as prescribed by DBP's
charter) and the foreign exchange risk reserve, to its contingency reserve.
Such appropriations will continue until such time as this reserve is built
up to at least 10% of nBP's outstanding contingent liabilities.
EAP Projects Department
July 30, 1975



ANNEX 10
PHILIPPINES
EXTRACTS FROM A REPCRT ON THE AUDIT OF THE
DMVELOPNENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        Background.  During negotiations for the first industrial loan
to DBP, it was agreed that an auditing expert appointed by the IBRD would
visit the DBP to evaluate the audit as presently carried out by the
Commission on Audit (COA). In May 1975, the second appraisal mission
included such an expert, Mr. R.C. Thorell, who undertook such an evalua-
tion. This report contains the findings and recommendations resulting
from his review.
2.        Scope of Review.  The evaluation effort was focussed primarily
ont a review of audit working papers and programs utilized by COA staff
at IBP to the extent that they were available; and a thorough
review of the June 30, 1974 audit report and financial statements, includ-
ing discussions with members of the COA Audit Staff and management of the
DEP relating to the accounting principles followed in the preparation of
these statements. Excerpts from the Philippine Constitution, Presidential
decrees, related office memoranda of the COA, and various other documents
pertaining to auditing functions of the COA and financial reporting at
DBP were also reviewed.
3.        Findings from these reviews were augmented and followed up on
in a series of detailed discussions concerning nBP's audit with: (i) the
Acting Chairman of the COA, Mr. Ismael Mathay, Sr., and with various
members of his staff in the offices of the OA; (ii) various members of
the COA's staff at the DBP under the direction of Mr. L.T. Reyes, Acting
Corporate Auditor; and (iii) representatives of the Central Bank (CB)
in respect of the audit work and report issued by the Examination and
Supervision Section of the CB.
4.        Documentary Evidence.  The working papers of the COA staff at
the DBP were extremely limited, essentially consisting of: (i) individual
loan files which contained the loan record card of work performed on
issuance of the loan and the related audit review sheet (utilized since
January 1974); (ii) the auditors copy of the daily proof sheets; (iii)
reconciliations of changes in certain balance sheet accounts; and (iv)
letters written in support of deficiencies noted during the course of



ANNEX 10
Page 2
their work. Consequently (and inevitably) the findings and conclusions
in this report are based on information gleaned from the
discussions mentioned above.
5.        The evaluation did not contemplate or result in an actual
examination in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of
the financial statements of DBP for any period and did not include an
attempt to audit any of its transactions or records.
6.        Basis for Comments.  The comments included in this report are
based upon generally accepted auditing standards and accounting principles
prevalent in the U.S.A. These standards and practices have been adopted
almost in their entirety in the Philippines.
B. THE PRESENT AUDIT
7.        Coverage:  The present audit at DBP attempts to cover 100
percent of transactions. Disbursements for operating expenses, purchases
of fixed assets and sales of acquired assets are subject to pre-audit,
i.e., the auditor must approve each of these transactions prior to
disbursements. Disbursements for loans or security purchases are generally
subject to post audit shortly after disbursements. Regular and surprise
counts of cash and securities are undertaken. Required accruals are
regularly checked and all documents required for new loans, security
transactions etc. are inspected routinely. In general, a very thorough
inspection of documents and audit of detailed transactions is performed
with the limited view of ascertaining that each transaction is in
accordance with Philippine law, regulations and the charter of the DBP.
8.        The audit has not, in the past, made comments relating
to the efficiency or effectiveness of management operations or made
suggestions for alternative methods of operations. In that regard, the
COA has recently issued its Office Memorandum No. 504 which
will require as part of each audit that the staff perform a "special
audit of management and operations" in which they will "recommend measures
necessary to improve their efficiency and effectiveness" in addition to
the audit of financial transactions and books of accounts presently per-
formed. "A report on the findings and results of such audit together
with comments and recommendations thereon shall be incorporated" in the
annual audit report. This addition to audit office functions may well
provide the necessary impetus towards expanding the audit horizons of the
COA staff, which are now limited to detailed transactions and their
conformity with legal authority.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
9.        Deficiencies in the Present Audit.  The present audit does not
require the following steps to be taken. These measures would normally
be considered essential and integral to any audit conducted in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards.
10.       Portfolio Review.  The market value and quality of assets are
not reviewed in order to determine the requirements for reserves or
write-offs.  In this respect the audit is seriously deficient.  Loan files
and related delinquency statistics are not reviewed with a view to determin-
ing the need for or adequacy of a reserve for doubtful loan accounts.
Neither is a review undertaken of the adequacy or quality of information
included in original project appraisal reports being presented to the Board
of Governors for consideration in approving loans. The audit of security
investments does not include a review and evaluation of the current market
value of each investment. Appraisals of acquired assets are not reviewed
in order to determine the need to provide a reserve for write-downs to the
market value of specific assets. Assets are carried at cost until they are
either sold or abandoned (which is extremely rare). At the mission's
request the auditors prepared a list of acquired assets by department.
The list revealed that a significant number of appraisals were over five
years old with a number dating back to the early 1960's or before. The
auditors have commented that DBP is holding a number of assets beyond the
five year limitation required by law. Recently, the audit staff has adopted
a policy of inspecting certain acquired assets to determine if lease rentals
are being paid and the assets can be disposed of, which policy shoald be
followed on a regular basis. Certain other assets have not been reviewed
to determine if they should be written off or are collectible. For instance,
P36,151,000 in deferred charges at June 30, 1975 result from DBP recording
deferred exchange losses. The computations by DBP have evidently not been
reviewed or audited by the COA staff to ascertain if the accounting is *
appropriate and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
11.       Circularization and confirmation of accounts.  The auditors do
not mail independent confirmations except in a few isolated instances.
DBP is presently mailing confirmations to a significant number of its
borrowers; however, the audit staff does not control these confirmations
or confirm any other loans directly with the borrowers. The audit staff
also does not, at present, confirm cash accounts, receivables on advances,
contracts receivable, loans payable or other liability accounts such as
savings deposits. (They do receive bank statements and checks directly from
the banks which serve as a form of confirmation for cash accounts).
12.       Data processing review.  At present, the audit staff tests
transactions manually by reviewing input and output data and do not perform
any review or tests of the internal controls, detailed programs, or
processing performed by the DBP data processing staff. The current
deficiencies will almost certainly become more critical as the DBP



ANNEX 10
Page 4
continues to develcp new programs and enters into more sophisticated
utilization of data processing equipment.  Manual testing is generally
not adequate to determine the accuracy of computer generated data,
especially in view of the increasing complexity and sophistication of
computer applications.
13.       Working papers.  The auditors do not currently maintain
adequate working paper files as evidence of the audit work performed
during the course of each examination.
14.       Internal control.  The audit staff does not presently perform
a review of internal accounting controls as part of their audit engage-
ment. To the extent that they test 100 percent of transactions, their
work (in effect) has become an integral part of DBP's internal account-
ing control system particularly for those transactions, subjePt, to pre-
audit. At the time of the mission's visit the audit staff was pre-
paring internal accounting control questionnaires for its own use in
each of DBP's departments. These questionnaires, when completed will
enable a better judgement to be formed on the quality of controls.
15.       Reporting.  The present audit report and financial statements
issued by the DBP differs in many respects from generally accepted
accounting principles and does not include appropriate disclosures as
required by such principles.
C.  INDEPENDENCE OF THE AUDITORS
16.       It is extremely difficult to make any definitive judgement
about the actual "independence" of the audit of the DBP as presently
conducted by COA staff. It is evident that from a constitutional and
legal viewpoint the COA is clearly meant to be totally independent
from the government organizations which it audits. There are several
subjective prima facie considerations, however, which raise doubts as
to whether the audit is truly "independent." These considerations
include:
(i)  the pre-auditing of transactions;
(ii)  the position of the Board of Governors of the DBP in
that they have the authority to approve all changes in
salary, the number of positions and appointments of COA
staff in DBP;
(iii) the integration of the auiit staff into the DBP staffing
and compensation system particularly as it relates to
retirement pay and fringe benefits;



ANNEX 10
Page 5
(iv) the effective absence of audit staff rotation between
government entities and within departments of individual
entities; and
(v) the quality and content of critical comments included
in the audit report.
17.       The pre-audit of certain transactions virtually makes the
auditor an integral part of the approval process of management. As a
result, there exists the potential for auditors being reluctant to
question disbursements uncovered later in the audit process which have
been previously approved on a pre-audit basis by another auditor. Even
if transactions are later questioned, the auditors may be reluctant to
include any comment in the audit report when such comment would, by
necessity, be critical of the pre-audit function. Finally, management
may exercise less diligence than normal in controlling disbursements
with the view that the ultimate responsibility lies with the auditor.
18.       DBP's management and Board of Governors may well feel the need
to have some seq in the overall commitment of their funds for the audit
staff. However it substantially weakens the independent standing of the
auditor if DBP's Board can exercise final authority over: the appoint-
ment (or termination) of any individual auditor; the total number of
auditors engaged; or compensation for the auditors.
19.       The inclusion of the audit staff in the IBP compensation
system has the effect of almost entirely eliminating the opportunity for
rotating auditors between government entities. Consequently, the
auditor virtually spends his entire auditing career at the DBP. Under
this regime, the evidence suggests that it becomes difficult, if not
impossible, for an auditor to retain his distance and objectivity. There
is inevitably a tendency to align himself with, and unquestioningly
accept as given, DBP's accounting system and management philosophy. As
a result the auditor is also not inclined to be objective and critical
of management's decisions and actions. Since his scope of experience is
limited only to the DBP, the auditor does not develop an adequate
perspective to be able to envision or relate to practices in other
corporations and to the wide variety of internal controls that can be
exercised.
D. DEVIATIONS IN DBP'S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FROM
GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
20.       Comment.  As mentioned above, DBP's financial statements deviate
in several important aspects from "generally accepted accounting princi-
ples". Such deviations are not clearly set forth in the DBP's annual
report or in the audit report, although they materially affect the



ANNEX 10
Page 6
analysis and interpretation of the financial statements. The deviations
discussed below are based mainly on discussions with the COA audit staff
and DBP's Comptroller. There may therefore be additional departures which
could only be determined with the performance of a complete audit of the
financial statements.
21.       Modified Cash Basis Accounting.  The present financial state-
ments are prepared on a modified-cash basis. Accrual basis accounting
is required under generally accepted accounting principles unless cash
basis financial statements "would result in a presentation not materially
different from that resulting f.rom the use of the accrual basis". The
present financial statements include the accrual of interest expense on
outstanding borrowings and the accrual of interest or dividend income on
DBP's securities portfolio. In all other respects, they are prepared on
the cash basis. As a result, the balance sheet could be conservative
since the understated assets might well exceed the understated liabili-
ties, (to the extent that accrued interest receivable on loans would
exceed other accrued liabilities and any additional required reserves).
The modified cash basis report is required by the Central Bank from
financial institutions. However., it may be more appropriate to prepare
accrual basis financial statements for internal management and for pub-
lished reporting to lenders, such as the World Bank. Such financial
statements would, of course, need to include adequate reserves for
uncollectable interest on loans. In addition, the preparation of accrual
basis financial statements would result in substantial improvements in
the present management information system in order to determine the
accrued interest receivable and related reserve requirements. In any
case, if the IBP continues to report on a "modified cash" basis, the
notes to the financial statements should include adequate disclosures of
the basis of financial statement preparation.
22.       Reserve Provisions.  The amounts recorded in the reserve for
contingencies should include adequate support and analyses by management
and the auditors of the amounts required. The reserve is now based
entirely on the amount requested by the Examination and Supervision
Section of the Central Bank upon completion of their annual audit of the
loan portfolio. CB's examination, which evidently includes an evaluation
of the loan portfolio in some depth, is not an adequate substitute for
an evaluation by management and COA audit staff of the requirement for
reserves for losses on loans, acquired assets and other assets. In any
case, the DBP has not yet received the report from the Central Bank on
its examination for the year ended June 30, 1974. Although CB's report
will probably be received prior to June 30, 1975, the data utilized to
recommend reserve requirements at June 30, 1974, will certainly be out
of date and may not reflect appropriate reserves required as of June 30,
1975. The reserves required should be included in the financial state-
ments as a reduction of the related assets as contrasted to the present
method of including them as an allocation of surplus and reserves.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
23.       Valuation of Acquired Assets.  Assets acquired on foreclosure
of loans should be recorded at lower of cost or current market value.
At the present time, assets are recorded at cost regardless of appraised
values. Current appraisals should be obtained and any reqcpzred write.-
downs considered in the establishment of the reserves discussed above.
24.       Retirement Liability.  The liability for retirement pay should
be determined and recorded in accordance with generally accepted account-
ing principles. The amount presently recorded is based upon an evaluation
by government actuaries several.years ago and their recommendation at that
time for an annual accrual. Such annual accrual has been increased in
recent periods to reflect managementts estimate of inflation; however, the
reserve requirements should be actuarily reevaluated annually.
25.       Foreign Exchange Risk. Foreign currency obligations should be
translated into Philippine pesos in accordance with current generally
accepted accounting principles and any resulting losses charged against
income. As of June 30, 1974, management recorded all foreign currency
liabilities at exchange rates prevailing at that date, however, the
resultant loss was recorded as a deferred charge and is being charged
against income as payments are made on the related loans.
26.       Deferred Income Taxes.  Deferred income taxes are not presently
recorded. Such taxes should be recorded for amounts expected to result
in income tax benefit or expense in a period different from that in which
such amounts are included in the consolidated statement of earnings. For
example, additions to the reserve for contingencies and loan losses are
currently included as a charge in the consolidated statement of earnings
without including a credit for the reduction in income tax expense which
will occur when the actual losses are incurred. The recording of a
deferred tax benefit, in this case, would be recorded in the consolidated
statement of condition as an asset.
E. COA AUDIT REPORT ON DBP
27.       Timing.  In accordance with Section 18 of the Charter of the
Development Bank of the Philippines,the COA staff is pre-
sently required to complete an audit and prepare a repprt on a quarterly
basis. The quarterly requirement results in a significant amount of audit
time devoted to writing reports which are issued and reviewed only
slightly earlier than semi-annual reports might be issued. It emphasizes
frequency at the expense of quality. It might be appropriate to increase
the audit interval to semi-annually in order to allow the auditors more
time to complete the additional required audit procedures and prepare
more comprehensive and informative reports.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
28.       Format. The report issued at the end of DBP's fiscal year
should be prepared in a format comparable to the Bank's "Illustrative
Form of Audit Report for Development Finance Companies". Such a report
would require certain notes and supplementary information not presently
included in the standard OOA report. During the course of the mission's
review, the auditors and DBP's financial management, represented by the
Comptroller, agreed to issue such a report for the year ended June 30,
1975 (with certain modifications set forth in a separate memorandum) by
December 31, 1975. Reports in this form would be prepared on an annual
basis thereafter and submitted to the Bank within 90 days of the end of
each fiscal period, in order to maintain their usefulness.
F. EROPOSED CHANGES AND SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
29.       Proposed Changes. Following from this review of DBP's audit,
the ODA and the IBP should consider and implement the changes discussed
above in the audit and in financial reporting. Under any reasonable
expectations it will take at least 2-3 years for DBP's management
information system to be improved to a level which will allow for
adequate financial reporting and an audit completed in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards. For these changes to occur,
there will need to be some rethinking done at the policy level on pro-
tecting the independence of the COA.
Independence of the Auditors
30.       The Government of the Philippines should review the current
system of compensation and authority to approve changes in the number
and level of the audit staff located in specific government entities
in order to strengthen the independence of the COA. A preferable
alternative to the present arrangements would be for COA to have its
own budget and directly compensate all COA staff in accordance with a
uniform career grade system. Government entities should be billed for
the anount of audit work performed. The total cost of audit work would,
of course, still be subject to overall government approval. Some change
in the compensation structure will eventually be required in order to
allow for additional mobility in COA audit staff assignments.
The Audit
31.       Audit Programs.  The audit staff has alreadg commenced the
process of developing new audit programs. COA staff at the Philippine
National Bank (PNB) have recently complbted a three-year project of
amending, updating and modifying the aud.t programs applied in PNB. This
experience should be useful in expediting the development of similar



ANNEX 10
Page 9
prograzs at IBP.  In this connection, the DBP audit staff should request
assistance from the central COA staff for additional personnel to aid in
the development of new audit programs. With such assistance, the process
could very well be completed during F! 1976 and at the latest by FY 1977.
32.       Working Papers.  In conjunction with the development of audit
programs the staff should also develop working papers to adequately
reflect and document the audit. This process should be completed in
tandem with the development of audit programs.
33.       Training Program.  The audit staff at IBP should commence and
develop their own training programs to supplement those being provided by
COA. At a minimum, such programs should include an annual requirement for
each auditor to attend training courses and might require that staff
members who attend outside professional development and training courses
prepare written memoranda or oral presentations to summar ize the courses
for other staff members. As audit programs and working papers are developed
in each audit department the supervisory staff should also develop train-
ing programs which focus on discussing the audit work to be performed.
In addition, the COA should develop courses which would provide annual
training programs for each auditor commensurate with their audit
classification. The development of such programs is necessarily a long-
term proposition which would, at a minimum, take approximately five
years to implement to any reasonable degree.
Measures for Improving Audits and Audited Information
34.       The deficiencies in the audit discussed in preceding sections
of this report should be corrected as soon as practicable. With existing
staff resources, necessary inprovements could be effected within one year.
At a minimum, the following measures should be considered for immediate
adoption by DBP auditors:
(i) The FY 75 audit should include a full review of the
adequacy of reserves for losses on loans, acquired
assets, and investments. In discussions with the
mission,DBP  undertook to complete the June 30, 1975
delinquency and arrearage information by August 31, 1975.
This would enable the auditors, in carrying out the
June 30, 1975 audit, to review all accounts in arrears
in order to determine whether DBP's estimated reserves
for losses are adequate. Along with that review the
auditors should also review the June 30, 1974 report
of the Central Bank auditors and select specific assets
and loans for detailed review. For the year ending
June 30, 1975, it might be appropriate to select all
loans of P 100,000 and more for such detailed review.



ANNEX 10
Page 10
If adequate information is not available on all such
accounts the auditors should, at a minimum, audit each
loan in excess of P 1,000,000 and develop adequate
programs to insure that all other significant loans are
reviewed by June 30, 1976. Acquired assets should be
reviewed along with current appraisals and estimated
sales projections in order to determine the adequacy
of the reserve for losses and the reasonableness of
the DBP's program for projected sales of such assets.
The audit staff should also be able to perform a complete
evaluation of all significant acquired assets during FY76.
This task should be given high priority in view of the
current plan to transfer a substantial portion of DBP's
acquired assets portfolio to the Land Bank. The review
of loan and acquired asset accounts should include :a
comprehensive field survey of specific borrowers and
asset holdings to assess the adequacy of information
supplied by management and to assist in the determina-
tion of the requirements for related reserves. These
field inspections should also be conducted as part of
the review of major new loans in order to evaluate the
adequacy and accuracy of information prepared by manage-
ment prior to approving loans. This work would probably
require the hiring or training of four to five auditors
(several of which could visit branches on a rotating
basis) experienced in project appraisal work and should
be accomplished during FY 76.
(ii) DBP's auditors should obtain financial statements
and other information to support the current value of
investments in order to determine the necessity for
any reserves.  During FY 76 the audit staff should
review each investment in DBP's portfolio to determine
whether current information is available. If such
information is not available,DBP's management should
be required to take all possible steps to procure such
information by June 30, 1976. In addition, the audit
staff should review each investment to determine
whether DBP's holdings are in excess of 20% of the
common stock of the investee company; in which case,
it would probably be appropriate to adopt the equity
method of accounting.
(iii)  The auditors should commence a program of confirming
certain asset and liability accounts and obtaining
representations from qualified experts e.g. legal, insurance,
etc. As of June 30, 1975 the staff should confirm the
cash and related loan accounts.



ANNEX 10
Page 11
During FY 76 the audit staff should also take steps
to confirm DBP's various loan and asset accounts. Con-
firmation of the loan portfolios of each DBP department
on a rotating basis should allow auditors to cover all
loan accounts at least once a year. Such confirmations
should be based on a random or stratified sample basis
instead of 100 percent coverage. A specific plan for
audit circularlization should be in effect by FY 77.
(iv)  In carrying out.the June 30, 1975 audit, the auditors
should document explanations of all significant changes
in balance sheet and income statement accounts.
(v) The DBP audit staff, assisted by COA central staff,
should undertake a review of the internal controls
at the DBP and explore whether redundancies in the
audit work presently performed could be eliminated.
During the course of the mission's discussions it
became evident that, at a minimum, the staff could
reduce the number of security and cash counts at the
branch level. Furthermore the need for covering 100
percent of all transactions is questionable. It
detracts from the quality of the audit when equal
attention is given to the significant and the trivial.
There is considerable scope for reducing the level of
transaction testing by utilizing statistical sampling
or other account selection techniques without materially
affecting audit thoroughness.
(vi) The testing and review of all transactions should be
performed on a post-audit basis. The practice of pre-
auditing should be eliminated.
(vii) In conjunction with a review of internal controls the
audit staff should develop programs to review the data
processing controls at the DBP. In that regard, ODA
may need to engage outside experts or hire auditors
experienced in the audit of computerized accounts to
supplement current capabilities. It may be appropriate
for the COA to engage data processing experts to perform
special analysis of computerized accounts in all govern-
ment entities. Such expertise should be acquired as
soon as possible.



ANNEX 10
Page 12
35.       The audit certificate issued by the Auditor at DBP should be
amended to disclose any departures from generally accepted auditing
standards or accounting principles as discussed elsewhere in this report.
Changes in MEP's Financial Statements
36.       As discussed in Section D of this report, the financial state-
ments and reports of the DBP should be modified to reflect generally
accepted accounting principles and the reporting practices required by
generally accepted auditing standards. Such changes should include:
(i) accrual basis accounting;
(ii) review of the adequacy of reserves for losses;
(iii) valuation of acquired assets at the lower of
cost or market value;
(iv) revision of the reserve for retirement pay;
(v) revision of the method of recording foreign
currency fluctuations;
(vi)  recording of deferred income taxes;
(vii) adequate disclosure of accounting policies; and
(viii) disclosure of additional financial information
required by generally accepted accounting prin-
ciples (as outlined inthe notes to financial
statements included in the Bank's Illustrative
Form of Audit Report for Development Finance
Companies).
Frequency of Audit
37.       Section 18 of DBP's Charter should be amended to require audit
reports on a semi-annual rather than on a quarterly basis.
EAP Projects Department
October 29, 1975



ANNEX 11
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
1/
Projected Operations, Finances, Resource Position and Requirements'
DBP's Business Forecast
1.        Table 1 attached to this annex shows DBP's latest forecast  for
approvals, commitments and disbursements through FY 79 for its lending opera-
tions. DBP's loan approvals amounted to P2,431 in FY 75, as against P293
million in FY 74 and P234 million in FY 73. In spite of the substantial project
pipeline it has built up 2/, DBP expects its loan approvals to decline to
R2,035 million in FY 76, 16.3% lower than the FY 75 record, because of a sharp
decrease in hotel financing 3/. Thereafter DBP's loan approvals are projected
to increase by about 20% annually to a level of P3,281 million in 1979. Given
inflationary increases in the prices of capital goods imports and construction
costs, the assumed growth rate of 20% in FY 77 and onwards appears reasonable.
The assumptions used in projecting loan commitments and disbursements also
appear reasonable.
2.        Compared with forecasts made in 1974 for Loan No. 998-PH, the
current forecast of lending operations is markedly higher (both loan commitments
and disbursements are higher by more than 200% in FY 76). The increases are
entirely attributable to the increase in the availability of resources; DBP's
industrial loans are increasingly replacing DBP's foreign guarantees. Approvals
of foreign guarantees declined from US$233 million in FY 73 and US$409 million
in FY 74 to about US$116 million in FY 75; they are expected to decline further
and to remain at about US$100 million from FY 76 onwards. Commitments for for-
eign guarantees are expected to be higher than projected approvals owing to the
large backlog of uncommitted approvals carried over from previous years. For-
eign guarantee commitments were US$230 million in FY 75, but are expected to
decline sharply to US$128 million in FY 76 and thereafter to remain at around
US$100 million.
3.        Not shown on Table 1 are long-term securities investments, which are
largely affected by the Government investment program. DBP's long-term invest-
ments were P1148 million in FY 75. They are expected to decline in FY 76 to P117
million, and are assumed to be nominal from FY 77 onwards. Most of DBP's in-
vestments will be in other government entities such as Food Terminal Inc.,
1/ DBP's financial projections do not reflect the proposed changes in interest
rates nor the proposed increase in share capital. The forthcoming supervision
mission to DBP in November/Decenber 1975 will review the impact of these changes
on DBP's future operations and financial performance.
2/ As of March 31, 1975, DBP had in its pipeline some 1,1400 projects for P2,370
million. As of June 30, 1975, IPD I alone had some 52 pipeline projects for
P1.2 billion.
3/  DBP's approved 10.9 billion for hotel financing in the first nine months of
FY 75 an unusually high amount which is unlikely to be repeated in the fore-
seeable future.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
National Steel Corporation, National Housing Corporation, etc.
4.        Thus the aggregate volume of DBP's financing can be summarized as
follows:
Projected Commitments, FY 76 - 79
LQ4ns       2/   Securities       Foreign
Industrial-    Others2/   investments    guarantees           Total
-------P miITT5ioF----------------- (US$million)    (UT$million
equivalent)
FY 76  1,132(481)  1,057  (500)    117              128              457
FY 77  1,351(604)    817  (612)        3            106              416
FY 78  1,626(723)    946  (791)        3            101              469
FY 79  1,950(865)  1,185(1,030)       2             100              548
Anticipated fluctuations in the aggregate volume of DBP's financing reflect the
sharp drop in hotel financing and increasing replacement of DBP's foreign guar-
antees by direct loans. The projected increases in DBP's industrial and agri-
cultural financing mainly reflect the expected availability of resources. DBP's
resource position as of June 30, 1975 and its plan for raising necessary re-
sources are discussed below.
Resource Position and Requirements
5.        Local Currency Resources - DBP's resource position as of June 30, 1975
is shown in Table 2. As of that date, DBP had a resource balance of P373 million
available for commitments in local currency. Between July 1975 and June 30, 1977,
DBP expects to commit about P3.4 billion in local currency. Against the net
additional resource requirement of P3.0 billion, DBP plans to raise P3.26 billion
between April 1975 and June 30, 1977 as shown below:
Sources of Funds (P million)
Increase in paid-in capital                                             283
Internal cash generation                                                4663/
Sale of equity investments                                               51
Sub-total                     800
1/ Figures in brackets indicate import financing.
2/ Figures in brackets indicate agricultural financing.
3/ Including net loan collections of P14 million.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Borrowings from:
Issuance of "countryside bills"                                  361-/
Issuance of "savings bonds"                                      2002/
Net y,crease in deposits                                          282
SSS 3/                                                           200
Foreign loans relent through the Government                       30;
Others                                                           986_ i
Sub-total           2,459
Total               3,259
These new resources would exceed by P260 million the net resource
requirements for the period. However, the projected level of borrowings is
necessary not only to meet DBP's financing requirements but also to maintain
DBP's liquidity and to redeem its outstanding 'progress bonds" maturing in
FY 77.
6.        Foreign Currency Resources - DBP's commitments in foreign currency
from July 1, 1975 through June 30, 1977 are estimated at US$155 million.
Against these requirements, DBP as of July 1, 1975, had an uncommitted foreign
currency resource balance of US$36.1 million, which represented uncommitted
balances of the first IBRD DFC loan (Us$16.1 million) and6,BRD shipping line
of credit (US$20 million). Based on the progress to date- and its pipeline
1/  Of a total notes issue of P500 million, P139 million has already been issued.
Of the balance of P361 million (9% p.a. tax free, 5 year maturity), P100
million will be used to redeem a portion of Progress Bonds maturing in FY-77.
2/  To be issued in FY 77 (9% p.a. tax free, 10 year maturity).  DBP intends to
issue a total of P 1 billion in five series, P200 million a year starting
FY 77. In addition to the interest, the proposed bond will provide an in-
creasing bonus or premium if presented for redemption on and after the 7th year
of,the redemption period.  Because of these features, effective yield to boud-
holders will range from 9% p.a. to 11.34% p.a.
3/ Social Security System.
4/ Includes IBRD loans through the Government such as agricultural loans and
small and medium scale industries loan.
5/ DBP expects to raise these resources in the form of advances from the
Central Bank or loans from the Government and its agencies.
6/ As of October 31, 1975, DBP had withdrawn US$37 million out of the US$48
million DFC loan.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
of projects under processing, DBP expects to fully commit the uncommitted
balance of the first DFC loan by around December 1975 and the shipping line of
credit by around June 1976. DBP would therefore require additional foreign ex-
change resources of about US$120 million, of which it expects to obtain US$
25 million from ADB in FY 76. The proposed Bank loan of US$75 million would
cover part of the expected gap (US$100 million) and would allow DBP to continue
its foreign currency lending to medium and large industries. The balance of the
required foreign resources is expected to be obtained from bilateral sources
or failing that,DBP will revert to guarantees.
Projected Financial Results and Position
7.        Projected income statements for the years FY 76-79 are shown in
Table 3 of this Annex. Net income is expected to rise sharply (3.7 times
the FY 75 level) in FY 76 to P266 million ,reflecting a large projected capital
gain (P188 million which will be tax free_-) on sales of Marinduque Mining
shares. The absence of capital gains in subsequent years causes net income to
decline to P105 million in FY 77. Thereafter, net income is expected to grow
at an average annual rate of 16% to P142 million in FY 79 mainly because of a
rapid increase in the income generating base and improved loan collections.
DBP's assumptions about future borrowing rates appear generally realistic,
while assumptions about future lending rates do not take account of the proposed
upward revision of interest rates. The assumed loan collection level, however,
seems somewhat optimistic compared to past experience and should be supported
by systematic and vigorous qollection efforts. On the basis of these assumptions,
interest income from loans'/ is expected to rise gradually53 m 4.9% of average
total assets in FY 76 to 6.8% in FY 79; financial expenses- v from 5.9% of
.average total assets in FY 76 to 6.7% in FY 79, resulting in a positive projected
gross spread in FY 79. The overall return on average total assets is expected to
improve gradually from 8.9% in FY 75 (with the exception of 10.8% in FY 76) to
9.3% in FY 79. Administrative expenses, although projected to decline in FY 764/,
are expected to increase from P120 million in FY 76 to P154 million in FY 79, but
to decline as a percentage of average total assets from 1.4% in FY 76 to 1.1% in
FY 79. Provisions are projected to be P 5 million throughout the projected per-
iod; this level appears to be too low. DBP may need to make much larger provisions
each year after due consideration of its portfolio quality. The return on average
1/ Tax exempt under Republic Act No. 6141, if sale is effected before
November 5, 1975.
2/ Projqeted on a cash basis.
3/ Projected on an accrual basis.
4/ Administrative expenses of P129 million for FY 75 were exceptionally
high since they include P16 million of depreciation expenses which
should have been charged to FY 74.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
equity,based on DBP's projections,is expected to rise moderately from 3.5% in
FY 75 (with the exception of 11.h% in FY 76) to 4.6% in FY 79; the return on
share capital, from 4.1% in FY 75 (13.3% in FY 76) to 6.o% in FY 79. These
developments notwithstanding, DBP's profitability will continue to be lower
than desirable.
8.        Projected balance sheets through FY 79 are shown in Table 4 of
this Annex. On the basis of its business forecast , DBP's total assets would
grow by 21.5% in qY 76 to P9,525 million and thereafter at an annual growth
rate of 19.6% to P15,248 million in FY 79 with the loan portfolio increasing
at an annual growth rate of 31.4% from P4.1 billion in FY 75 to P11.8 billion.
The loan portfolio is expected to play an increasingly prominent role in DBP's
future asset structure. Debt is expected to increase by 21.5% to P 7 billion
in FY 76, and continue to increase at an annual average rate of 23% to P12
billion in FY 79. DBP expects its paid-in share capital to be increased annually
by budgetary appropriations of P100 million in addition to the normal appropriation
of 20% of its net income. The total debt/equity ratio is expected to rise from
4.5:1,in FY 75 to 5.5:1 in FY 79. The current ratio is expected to be above
1.4:1- throughout the projected period.
9.        Projected cash flow statements through FY 79 are provided in Table 5
of this Annex. Debt service coverage is expected to be satisfactory (over 1.3)
throughout the projected period. If actual collections exceed estimated
collections, the debt service cover will improve correspondingly.
1/ This ratio is based on current liabilities excluding deposits subject to
rollover.
RAP Projects Department
October 31, 1975



ANNEX 11
PHILIPPINES                                                          Table 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ThE PHILIPPINES
Projected Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements, FY 76 - 79
Actual                              Projected
Years ending June 30                                         1975 -/        1976           1977           1978           1979
Approvals
Loans (P million):
Industrial loans                                            750         1,172           1,412          1,698          2,033
(of which import financing)                            ( 295)        ( 525)         (  630)        (  748)         ( 901)
Agricultural loans                                          550            60o            646            840          1,093
Real estate and Government loans                         1,092             230            130            130            130
Private development banks                                    39             25             25             25             25
Sub-total                                        2,431          2,035          2,213          2,693          3,281
Guarantees (US$ million)                                     116            100            100            100            100
Total approvals (P million)                      3,242          2,735          2,913          3,393          3,981
Commitments
Loans (P million)
Industrial loans                                                         1,132          1,351          1,626          1,950
(of which import financing)                              1/            ( 481)       (  604)        (  723)         ( 865)
Agricultural loans                                                          500            612            791          1,030
Real estate and Government loans                                            531            180            130            130
Private development banks                                                    26             25             25             25
Sub-total                                        1,754          2,189          2,168          2,572          3,135
Guarantees (US$ million)                                     230            128            106            101            100
Total commitments (P million)                    3,364          3,055          2,910          3 279          3L835
Disbursements (or issuance of guarantees)
Loans (P million)
Industrial loans                                            307            870          1,241          1,517          1,820
(of which import financing)                                 1/         ( 391)       (  564)         (  675)        ( 808)
Agricultural loans                                          o01            416            561            720            934
Real estate and Government loans                            202            875            320            150            130
Private development banks                                                   25             25             25             25
Sub-total                                          940          2 186          2,147          2,412          2,909
Guarantees (US$ million)                                     132            m              120            105            101
Total disbursements (P million)                  1,86k          3.418          2,987          3,147          3,616
Assumptions
1. Approvals - The projected level of approvals for FY 76 is based on the project pipeline. While industrial and agricultural loans
are projected to grow at an annual rate of 207 in FY 77 and onward, other loans and guarantees are assumed to remain at the FY 77
level through FY 79.
2.  Commitments - Since it is DBP's practice to get loan documents signed within 90 days after approvals, 75% of loan approvals
are projected to be committed in the same year and the balance in the following year. Because of large backlog of uncommitted
approvals, guarantee commitments are expected to be higher than projected guarantee approvals.
3.  Disbursements - DBP's loan commitments are normally disbursed within 180 days after commitments; therefore, 60% of commitments
are assumed to be disbursed in the year of commitments and the balance in the following year.
1/ Preliminary figures, breakdown Dy loans is not available.
EAP Projects Department
October 2, 1975



ANNEX 11
Table 2, Page 1
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Long-Term Resource Position as of June 30. 1975
(F million)
Domestic Sources
Equity:
Paid-in capital                                                                             1,766.9
Reserves and surplus (less reserve for doubtful accounts)                                     276.9
Sub-total                                                                             2,043.8
Borrowings (net of repayments):
Bonds and notes:
Ordinary bonds 5-8% p.a., due 1975-1985                                                     158.7
Progress bonds 9% p.a., due 1976-1977                                                       429.0
Bills payable-Repurchase agreement                                                          221.3
Countryside bills; 9% p.a., due 1980                                                        139.5
Notes payable to government agencies; 7% - 11% p.a., due 1975 - 1992                        518.6
Sub-total                                                                             1,467.1
Special loans and funds:
Advances from Central Bank; 9.5% p.a., due 1984                                              10.3
Loans payable to government agencies; 2% - 4% p.a., due 1978-1998                            66.9
Central Bank's funds to be drawn upon for hotel projects 1/                                 635.1
Central Bank funds for agricultural projects                                                 80.0
Central Bank advances for commercial banks capitalization                                    87.2
Sub-total                                                                               879.5
Time and savings deposit subject to rollover, average 9%.p.a.                                 1,878.4
Less:  Central Bank's reserve requirements                                                    219.3
Sub-total                                                                             1,659.1
Total
Foreign Sources
Borrowings (listed on page 2 of this Table) from:
Foreign government agencies                                                                 696.6 2
Commercial banks and others                                                                 712.3
Foreign currency deposits (less Central Bank's reserve requirements)                         71.5
IBRD loans through the Government                                                           830.6
Total                                                                                 2,311.0
Total resources
Less:  Loans outstanding                                                                      4,072.1
Equity and long-term security investments                                                567.4
Acquired assets                                                                        1,143.7
Loans under litigation                                                                    63.5
Fixed assets and other long-term assets                                                  563.4
Sub-total                                                                            6.410.1
Resources available for disbursements                                                         1,950.4
Less:  Undisbursed commitments                                                                1.323.9
Resources available for commitments                                                             626.53/
1/  DBP entered into a securities repurchase agreement with the Central Bank (CB) whereby DBP will be
able to refinance 80% of DBP's disbursements on CB endorsed hotel projects against the sale of
DBP's government securities to CB, which have to be repurchased by DBP within one year. But the
repurchase agreement can be rolled over from year to year for an aggregate term of not more than
5 years.
2   Including P 55,871 thousand not yet drawn from the Bank of Spain.
3/  of which P253 million (or US$36.1 million equivalent) represented resources available for
commitments in foreign currency.
EAP Projects Department
October 31, 1975



MINEr 11
Table 2, Page 2
C      tO  Ca                   a       a  a
a.  woo                         a  wee                                    C
-      St  -C)               .00        O*
at                          aae-.
t.     C  ata
a          too                  *        att  C                          -
a  C -                   C      tt.ea   C
a                         C-t.a  C.                          a
a  to.-..               'a      a.aC  Ct                                   to
a      aa                   '          -a
.     B                                C         cC   C               to                   C
St    -,          a                    a      a-at   a               a            -.       C
ea   Catet                 a      o                     a                    a
at    a-   aa.a                a        -awe  .C              at          -C
C    .,t     a                a-         Nt-a                  a          too       a
to      a    at.  at--u                 e       at-ta   a              C            -
aC  *wtoa                         o-   a
C  Cat                 a  at   toe                   C           a,       a
CC-ta.ata.at a                  a  a  a.        a                         at        a
'a  -tao   to aa            at      C  0CC   a                 C           C        C
CC   to  to                 a  a    -C   S                 at         t-Ct-     C
at  aataataa                   a  a.  eat,   a                C          ew
a..-teat.aa                        aa.  N                a
a                       eeC   a                a
CaCataaa                         C 'to  CCC   C                C  C  a  Cto         C
CCaaaaaaa                         a.u  eeC                     a  e  C  ate  to  ta
 we   aCe   C                a.  C  tt  a-C
eM WV% 1                                                         at a
aw     e  'a -to                          ate  at
   Ca a.                     a.        a..                a         E   a.
aa     agatoC                     e-   t.- ewa                     a  .e  CC   a. -
Ca.aaCCCwaa                  a  aCt,   aa.awa                  C  C  a  to'a
C  aca   C    C             C  a  a  ewe   a                   a  -  at  C    .C  I
to  seataC  'a   fa         at  at  a-  ow-t  at              'a  at  a  -    w  to
w-4N  -*   -a           to-uto  to  at,-.te  a             w  -a  to  to
toat:tototo                      tototoat   tow
ttl    ttt4to  4  to        tflto.to    tt0    -4tfl4  C       at    to    to   to  to    to
.2
to         Ceo   a            ato
0  to        to    to    to    to
C      to  toto'                    ICC       attototo-tototo
ato     to  fitot      to              C    CeetNO   totoat             to     to       to  to
tea-a   Ca.--    -a'                  -       -
4to-a   a    to           .0    a-atoto  to  N             N  N  N  N    to  to
-a             a
a-a   toe          to
N to       to-a
Ca                                         ti-I                               -1-I
4totC                  totflfl-tto                       at  to      to
C.                          Ii                               Cii                                  toji
atfitototoltol           tow toto-atototooto               to  to  -to  N            41  toM
tototo  N    to         to tototo   N-Ito  to  to  to      4  to  to   t              jjj
H                                                  ii
to          to  to    4    to                                        21
LI
to     towtoo4toitol                totow   to  leatto  to  to  C      to  to  4  N             41  toil          C
a                                          tt                                 II
a              ate      to  -Catteatatto             town   to  tototo  N  to  to      to  to      to            tot tot           C
CC      to  4flto   4    4            to totoatto4       to  to  to     -t to       to    t                         a
to     aaNtoau                     afrC,totoCt-Ca
to  atto.-t  4    to I-ti   wow   to  toatto  to  toiwi        to  to  'a  to   to  wiol-tol
to       to  -a--a  at   tot-         tototo  to  tototo  N  to tat,     to  w  to  to   to  totwito*                a
Ce    -0-4-1-I-------till
atC      to  4toto   4    toltaC      tototoatto4totottot                4  N  at  to   to        toatfl
4          4                toto   to  at       ,..tt11                at  to   to                         C
-                    Elto]                 C
to                                                                                                                to
a                                                                                                                 a.
C    N tetete N                     NNN  te Natte a N                  NNNNNN                                     to
CC       --------------   to          ----t-    a  'a-               -t-'at              'a                  to
ata      to  toatto  -a    N          to-a-a  to  toteto  at to          4tototototo                                to
we       --------------at             -t--t--t---------   a--            -----------------                          to
a      N  4to0                      toC4to4teto   C  to              to  to  to  C    to  te                    to
at     to  towat  'a                attow  at  towat        to         to  to  'a  to   at  to                    w
a                                                    attoto   a
a                                                     I   I   I  C
C                                                    tototo  at
a                  -                      a                                      B;   
                                         -I                                     ':      a   at
-                              a          C                                                    C
to  a          -a                                             ata.  at  a  a
at      C    atto           C   a                                                        to    at
to        -a                                      a       a     a
at      C  to-                at      a  a                             a         at           a.
C  a                                                 .
CCC                                        tote     _
at-I                frto           a  a   Cow              eto                              at  at            C      to
to     at  a   atCa   a       t  at                    a.Cat                  a
          to    C   ala.                                      0   C                 C-
C      at  aCe   a                         C  to  to  at  to    4  to                    C    -
N eC at'a'a C to to to to to at C C
tow-to   ,           a  Ceat  C   CCC   to              aS  N  to  to  to   at  to             ta            tta



ANNEX 11
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
DEVELDPMENT BANK OF THE PHIIIPPINES
Pro.Jected Income Statements, FY 1976 - 79
(P million)
Actual         Unaudited                          Projected
Fiscal years ending June 30                1971             1975         1976          1977            1978         1979
Income
Interest on loans                        280.5           267.6         415.5         591.4           789.9        967.6
Interest on securities & deposits         40.4            63.8          95.2         108.5           110.3        111.3
Dividend income                            3.2             4.7           5.5           5.5             5.5          5.5
Capital gains on sales of securities      40.0             1.8         188.2           -               -            -
Guarantee and other fees                  59.8            55.8          93.5          98.7            98.1         96.1
Rental                                     0.8           134.0         101.0         101.0           101.0        101.0
Other income                              19.1            53.2          23.7          26.5            29.7         33.3
Tbtal income                          443.8           580.9         922.6         931.6         1,134.5      1,134.8
Expenses
Financial expenses                       254.2           339.4         502.0         649.2           809.5        952.4
Salaries and other personnel expenses     38.2            51.3          54.7          57.9            61.4         65.1
Other administrative expenses             25.4            78.1          65.0          71.7            79.4         89.1
Total expenses                          317.8           u            621.7          778.8           950.3      1,l06.5
Income before income tax and provision     126.0           112.1         300.9         152.8           184.2        208.3
Less:  Income tax                           26.8            25.7          29.9          42.2            53.5         61.8
Reserve for doubtful accounts         8.4            15.0          5.0            5.0             5.0          5.0
Net Income                                  90.8            714d         266.0         105.6           125.7        141.5
Appropriations
Transferred to paid-in capital            18.1            14.3          53.2          21.2            25.1         28.3
Transferred to retained earnings          72.7            57.1         212.8          84.4           100.6        113.2
Ratios
I.  As % of average total assets:
Income from loans                        5.7             4.1           4.9           5.7             6.5          6.8
Other income                             3.3             4.8          5.9            3.2             2.8          2.5
Gross income                            9.0             8.9         10.8            8.9             9.3          9.3
Financial expenses                       5.2             5.2          5.9            6.2             6.6          6.7
Administrative expenses                  1.3             2.0           1.4           1.2             1.1          1.1
Total expenses                         6.5             7.2          7.3            7.4             7.7          7.8
Income before tax and provisions        -2.5*             1.7T         317-                                    ---W
II. Net income as % of:
Average equity                         4.8             3.5          11.4           4.o             4.4          4.6
Share capital                          5.2             4.1          13.3           5-0             5.6          6.o
EAP Projects Department
September 30, 1975



PHILIPPINES                                         ANNEX 11
Table 4
DEVELOPMENT SANK OP TIIE PHILIPPINES
ProJected Balance Sheets, June 30, 1976 - 1979
(P million)
Actual             Unaudited                                  Projected
As of June 30                          1974                 1975              1976               1977           1978              1979
ASSETS
Current Assets.
Cash acd due from banks              117.1               4Q6.1              351.6              361.2          364.8             368.4
Marketable securities                400.8                762.8            703.2              722.4          729.6             736.8
Short-term advances                   66.3                 95.8              95.0               96.0           98.0             100.0
Accrued income                        10.3                 33.0               30.0              32.0           33.5              35.0
Accounts receivable                   98.9                130.0             100.0              105.0          110.0             115.0
Current portion of long-term         303.7               392.8              546.5              733.6          950.9           1,156.4
loans
Total Current Assets                 997.1              1.820,5           1,826.3            2,050.8        2,286.8           2,511.6
Long-tes loans-.
Agricultural loans                   623.9                954.6           1,134.3            1527.9         2,031.4           2,687.0
Industrial loans                   1,335.8             2,067.5            2,357.1            3.402.5        4.634.4           6,053.0
Real Estate Loans                    166.5                353.4           1,227.3            1.446.3        1,472.1           1,457.3
Government and landed estate          58.8                 69.6              86.2              104.9           120.8            133.9
loans
Contract mortgage receivable          28.5                 27.0              30.8               32.3           34.1              36.3
Private development bansi             35.2                51.6               52.2               56.0           56.7              51.5
Advances on guarantees               786.9                548.4           1,169.6           1,282.9         1,352.1           1,381.4
Total long-term loans              3.035.6             4,072.1            6,057.5            7,852.8        9,701.6          11,800.4
Less   Current portion               303.7                392.8             546.5              733.6           950.9          1,156.4
Total long-term loans (net)        2,731.9             3,679.3            5,511.0            7,119.2        8,750.7          10,644.0
Investments;
Equity-preferred                     243.3                255.6             258.9              261.6           264.1            266.4
cormion                      165.1                281.2              289.3             289.2           289.2            289.2
Bonds                                 74.0                 30.6               85.3              85.3            85.3             85.3
Total investments                    482.4                567.4             633.5              636.1           638.6            640.9
Vixed Assets (net)                      61.4                 65.1               71.8              70.7            68.9             66.1
Properties acouired through            724.7             1_343.7            1,110.7            1.074.0         1 037.0            999.7
foreclcsure
Other Assets,
Loans under litigation                82.0                 63.5               85.0              87.0            89.0             91.0
Others                               199.9                498.4              287.0             290.0           292.5            295.0
Total other assets                   281.9                    9              372.0             377.0           381.5            386.0
Total Assets                         5.279.4              7,837.9            9,525.3          11.327.2       13_3              15,2_48. 3
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Deposits                             618.8             1,974.3            2,344.0            2.346.0         2,432.0          2 456.0
Less deposits subject to           (466.0)           (1,878.4)          (2,160.05          (2.160.0)      (2 200.0)         (2.200.0)
rollover
Short-tenm  borrowings               275.8               205.9               460.8             460.7           436.7            416.0
Accounts payable and accrued         235.2                254.7              122.2             118.3           205.3            392.4
expenses
Current maturities of long-          649.5               501.3              424.0              566.8          336.3             750.7
term debt
Total current liabilities          1,313.3             1,057,8            1,191.0            1,331.8        1,21.03           1,815.1
Long-tenm  debt1
Poreign currency borrovings        1,005.9              1,458.7           1,678.0            2,029.0        2,386.9           2,853.7
Domestic currency borrowings    1,112.9                 1,583.2           2,342.6            3,585.2        4,684.9           5,867.0
Total                            2.118.8             3,041.9            4,020.6            5,614.2        7,071.8           8,720.7
Less  Current maturities           (649,5)              (501,3)            (424.0)           (566.8)         (336.3)          (750.7)
Add   Denosits subject to           466.O             1.878,4            2.160.0            2 160.0       2.2_000            2,200.0
rollover
Total long-term debt              1,935.3             4_LU9.0            5,756.6            7 207.4        8,935.5          10,170.0
Special funds                           1.3                 -                   -                 - _                             -
Deferred credits                       54.2               285.2                 55.5              55.5            55.5             55.5
Equityl
Paid-in share capital             1,735.6             1,766.9            2,003.1            2.124.3        2,249.4           2 377.7
Retained earnings                   219.7               276.9              489.7              574.1          674.7             787.9
Reserve for doubtful accounts        20.0                32.1                29.4           _34.1              38.1             42.1
Total equity                      1.975.3             2.075.9            2,522.2            2,732.5       21962.2            3207. 7
Total Liabilities and Eauity        5 279 4              7.837.9            9.525.3           11 327.2       13.163.5         15 248-3
Contingenciess
Foreign guarantees (US$ million) 422.9                  495.4              815.0              825.0          813.0             795.0
Local guarantees (P million)         32.4                39.4                77.0              50.0            24.0             24.0
Total (t7 million esuinalent)   2.99.6                3.,514.6           5,7_80 25.82.0                      5,715.0        5,589.0
Ratios
Total debt (including
guarantees)/equity                  3.2;1                4.5:1             5.1J1              5.3:1          5.4:1             5.5,1
Current ratio  (a)j/                  0.8O,                1.3:1              1.5:1             1.51l          1.911             1.4:1
(h)                  0.6.1                0.5:1              0.5:1             0.6:1           0.711            0.6;1
1/  Current ratios based on current assets and liabilities as shown above.
2/  Current ratios based on current liabilities including deposits subject to rollover.
RAP Projects Department
September 30, 1975



ANNEX 11
PHILIPPINES                          Table 5
DEVELOPMENT SANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Pro;ected Cash Flow Statements, FY 1976 - 79
(P million)
Pro;ected
Years ending June 30                                                  1976         1977          1978         1979
Sources
Net income after tax                                                266.0        105.6         125.7        141.5
Add back: Depreciation                                               35.0         35.7          36.5         37.5
Reserve for doubtful accounts                              4.7          4.7           4.0          4.0
Sub-total                                                        305.7        146.0        166.2        183.0
Collections on long-term loans                                      335.2        473.0        640.9        848.5
Collections on advances on guarantees                                57.6         73.5          92.7       102.4
Sub-total                                                        392.8       546.5         733.6        950.9
Sale/redemption of long-term securities:
-Common shares                                                    51.1           -             -           -
-Other long-term securities                                        -            0.1           -          _
Sub-total                                                        51.1          0.1            -           -
Sale of properties acruired through foreclosures                    33.0           5.1           4.6         5.6
Increase in share capital                                          183.0         100.0         100.0       100.0
Borrowings:
Draw-down on foreign borrowings                                   665.5       654.4         755.6        641.3
Domestic borrowings from:                                         629.7          5.4           -           -
- Central Bank for hotel projects                                62.7           5.7          -            -
- Countryside bills payable                                      184.8        175.7
- Issue of savings bonds                                           -         200.0         200.0        200.0
- Net increase in deDosits subject to                            281.6         -            40.0          -
rollover
- Other sources                                                   -          982.1       1,068.8     1.143.9
Sub-total                                                      1,761.6     2,017.6       2,064.4      1,985.2
Decrease in other assets                                            189.9          -             -            -
Increase in current liabilities other than                          210.5          -          109.0        190.4
current maturities of long-term debts
Total Sources                                                  3,127.6     2,815.3       3,177,8      3,415.1
Uses
Repayments of'
Foreign borrowings                                                473.5       303.4         397.7        174.6
Domestic borrowings                                              _27.8         120.6        169.1        161.7
Sub-total                                                        501.3       424.0         566.8        336.3
Disbursements of loans                                            2,185.6     2,147.0       2 412.0      2 909.0
Advances on guarantees                                              192.6        186.8         161.9       131.7
Sub-total                                                     2,378.2      2,333.8       2,573.9      3,040.7
New long-term investments                                           117.2          2.7           2.5         2.3
Increase in fixed and cther assets                                   49.1         16.0         15.3         16.5
Increase in other liabilities                                       229.7          -             -            -
(decrease)
Increase/in current assets other than cash
and current portion of long-term loans                           ( 93.4)       27.2          15.7         15.7
Decrease in current liabilit,es                                       -            2.0           -            -
Total Uses                                                    3,182.1      2,805.7       3,174.2      3,411.5
Tucrease (decrease) in cash                                        ( 5h.5)         9.6           3.6          3.6
Cash balance - beginning                                             4o.61       351.6         361.2        364.8
Cash balance - end                                                  351.6        361.2         364.8        368.4
Debt service coverage                                                 1.3          1.3           1.3          1.8
EAF Projects Deartment
September 30, 1 75



ANNEX 12
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT flANK CF THE PHILIPPINES
Agreed Changes in DBP's Interest Rates,
Guarantee Fees, and Other Charges
Present Charges                                         Agreed Charges
Interest on Loans
Most loans above P5,000                                12% p.a.                               12% p.a. on loans fully secured by land.
Loans or portions of loans not secured by
land will bear a rate of 14 % p.a.
Loans below P5,000                                      9% p.a.                                                  12% p.a.
Loans to Private Development Banks                      8% p.a.                                                  No change
Other Special loans                                  6-10% p.a.                               12% p.a. unless rate specified under any
particular law.
Commitment Charges:                                         0.25% per month                                             No change
Penalty Charges:
Penalty on loan accounts in arrears                         12% p.a. on the interest portion                            No change
for less than 90 days                                       of payments due for loans bearing
regular interest of 12%; 14% p.a.
on loans bearing interest of less
than 12% p.a.
Penalty on accounts in arrears                              Penalty of 8% p.a. on both               Effective January 1, 1976 a penalty charge of
for over 90 days:                                           principal and accrued interest            2% per month will be applied to any account
overdue for more than 90 days. The charge
will be applied on the entire amount overdue
(principal plus regular interest, plus any
penal interest accrued). Effective June 30,
1977 this penalty charge will be increased to
3% per month.
On Restructured Accounts:                                   10% D.a. on arrearages follow-            3% per month on total overdues of principal,
ing restructuring                        interest and penalty interest.
Foreclosure Fees:                                           10% fee on total obligation                                 No change
of account being foreclosed
Guarantee Fees
Issuance Letter Fee:                                1% of amount being guaranteed             1.5% of guaranteed amount.
Commitment Charge:                                   1% p.a. on unavailed portion             1.5% p.a. on same basis.
starting from date of issue
letter
Rate on Guarantees availed of:                      1% p.a. on principal out-                3% o.a. payable on same basis.
standing and interest due,
payabl e quarterly
Penalty on Guarantee Fees                            1% per month                             2% per month from January 1, 1976 to June 30,
not paid on due dates:                                                                        1977 and 3% per month thereafter.
Service Fee for Advance on                           0.5% of amount advanced                  2% of amount advanced.
Guarantee:
Penalty on Advar.es overdue for                        1% per month                                              No change
under 90 days
Penalty on Advances overdue for                      1.33% per month on advance and           As for loan accounts overdue for more than
more than 90 days:                                   interest                                 90 days.
Preferred Shares
Generally                                              12% p.a.                                                 l% p.a.
Private Development Banks:                          1% p.a. for 0-5 years                                        No change
2% p.a. for 6-10 years
3% p.a. for over 10 years
3% p.a. for all additional
subscriptions
EAP Projects Department
November 3, 1975



ANNEX 13
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures for
Medium-and Large-Scale Industrial Financing
Approved by the Board of Governors on May 29, 1974, under Resolution No. 1571-A
1.        The policies, criteria and procedures set forth below will guide
DBP's medium-and large-scale industrial operations--particularly those
undertaken by Industrial Projects Department I and irrespective of the
sources of funds used for financing these operations.
2.        Objectives of Industrial Financing
To assist the development of the country by providing financial
and technical assistance for the establishment of new industries as well as
for the balancing, modernization and expansion of existing industries.
3.        Basis for Investment Decisions
DBP will make investment decisions on the basis of sound investment
criteria and standards, and after careful project evaluation. Financial
assistance will be provided to those projects which are financially and
oconrdecally viable and technically feasible, and for the implementation of
which satisfactory organizational and managerial arrangements have been made.
14.       Method of Financing
DBP will provide finance according to the requirements of each
project, in one or several of the following forms:
(a) direct loans in local currency, for financing local
expenditures on fixed assets and where appropriate for
working capital;
(b) direct loans in foreign currencies, for financing imports of
equipment and/or new materials;
(c) guarantees of domestic currency and/or foreign currency credits
made on suitable terms;
(d) loans fully or partly convertible into stock;
(e) in exceptional and highly meritorious cases, direct equity
investments and underwriting of share issues.
5General Investment Policies
(a) Financing will be provided to projects which are in line with
the investment priorities of the Government; preference being
-given to projects registered with the Board of Investments (BOI)



ANNEX 13
Page 2
under the Investment Incentives Act or the Export Incentives
Act, or with other pertinent Government regulatory agencies.
(b) In accordance with normal banking practice, adequate security
will be required to cover the loans and guarantees, but the
main considerations will be the merits of proposed projects,
their repayment prospects and the soundness of management of
the enterprise.
(c) DPB will not seek a controlling interest in any enterprise
in which it has invested, or any other interest which would
give it responsibility for management, except when in its
judgement its investment is in jeopardy, in which case DBP
reserves the option of taking such action as may be necessary
to protect its interests.
6.        Project Appraisal Guidelines
(a) Each investment decision will be made on the basis of a
thorough project evaluation, reflected in an appraisal
report, which will be a self-contained and comprehensive
document outlining facts, analyses and judgements on the
essential aspects (including technical, marketing, management
financial and economic) of the project as well as recommendations
on special contractual arrangements. In appropriate instances,
the report will incorporate essential complementary elements
of the BOI's appraisal work, in particular its economic
evaluation and marketing analysis. These inclusions not-
withstanding, DBP's appraisal reports will in any event include
DBP's own judgements on these matters as well.
(b) Project appraisal will generally include the calculation
of the internal financial and economic rates of return for
projects of which the total project cost exceeds US$2 million
equivalent. If the economic rate of return is below 10%,
special justification will be required in the appraisal report
which recommends a decision to finance the project.
(c) Each appraisal report will provide in detail the estimated
cost of the project, including working capital requirements
and adequate contingencies. Prior to committing its own
funds DBP will satisfy itself that funds expected from sources
other than DBP (i.e. borrower's own contribution, plus borrowings
from other lending institutions) will be available in sufficient
amounts when needed to cover the total financing requirements
of the project.
7.        Lending Terms
(a) Each industrial loan will be made on a term and with a grace
period consistent with the repayment capacity of the enter-
prise based on projected cash-flows, and related to the useful
life of the assets financed by the loan.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
(b) Each investment project financed by DBP will normally have
an equity capital equivalent to 25% of total project cost.
In the case of an expansion project of an existing enterprise,
funds generated internally are considered as equity for this
purpose.
(c) DBP will take steps adequate to protect itself against the
foreign exchange risk on its lending operations and guarantees.
8.        Project Supervision Guidelines
It is the policy of DBP to: (a) undertake systematic follow-up
on the progress and operation of the projects financed by it, in
order to establish whether the actual developments correspond
'with the expectations and projections on the basis of which the
investment decision was made, and to keep DBP's management
currently informed of the project status so that it may take
timely and appropriate action. Accordingly DBP requires its
borrowers to submit regular periodical reports on the physical
and financial progress of the project, and on its operational
and financial performance. Furthermore projects are visited
at appropriate intervals to confirm the state of progress, to
check on the efficiency, organization and management of the
project, and to discuss problems of mutual concern with the
borrower's management. (b) maintain close scrutiny of its
accounts in arrears. Each individual account in arrears is
analyzed in detail at least once annually in order to identify
the causes for arrears and to determine the repayment capacity of
the enterprise. On the basis of this analysis DBP's management
takes appropriate measures (including legal action), for collection,
rescheduling, or restructuring of the account.
EAP Projects Department
October 24, 1975



ANNEX 14
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Estimated Commitments and Disbursements of IBRD $ 75 million Loan -
(US$ million)
Commitments                                     Disbursements
Amount              %                                Amount            %
1976
1st quarter                2.00               2.7
2nd quarter               5.00                6.7                                -               -
3rd quarter              10.00               13.3                              1.00              1.3
4th quarter               16.00              21.3                               2.00             2.7
Sub-total              33.00              44.0                               3.00              4.0
1977
1st quarter              18.00               24.0                               5.00             6.7
2nd quarter              14.00               18.7                              6.00              8.0
3rd quarter               8.00               10.7                              8.00             10.7
4th quarter                2.00               2.6                             10.00             13.3
Sub-total              42.00              56.0                              29.00             38.7
1978
1st quarter                 -                  -                              11.00             14.7
2nd quarter                 -                  -                               9.00             12.0
3rd quarter                 -                  -                                7.50            10.0
4th quarter                 -              _                                    6.00             8.0
Sub-total                                    -                              33.50            44.7
1979
1st quarter                                    -                               4.50              6.0
2nd quarter                                    -                               2.75              3.6
3rd quarter                                    -                               1.50              2.0
4th quarter                 -                  -                               0.75              1.0
Sub-total               -              _                                    9.50            12.6
Total                  75.00             100.0                             75.00            100.0
1/ Assuming that the proposed loan shall become effective early in the first quarter of 1976.
EAP Projects Department
October 1, 1975



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
ORGANIZATION CHART
DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                                                                          COMMISSION
OF                                                                                                                                                                                                 ON
JUSTICE                                                                                                                                                                                             AUDIT
SUPERVISING                                                                 SUPVISING                                SUPERVISING                           SUPERVISING
GOVERNOR                                                                  L        NGOVER L                           GOVERNOR GOE                          GOVERNOR
EXCTIVE                               EXCUIV
|OFFICER    ri|OFFICER r
DEVELOPMENT    l  ACCUIRED ASSETS                                                                                       INDUSTRIAL        INDUSTRIAL                                     AUDITNG
AND RURAL BANKS    MANAGEMENT                       TREASURER                             COMPTROLLER                   PROJECTS           PROJECTS                                       DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT                                                                                          DEPARTMENT I       DEPARTMENT III                             _
OMMUNITY                      CASH AND           SECURITIES        ELECTRONIC                                        INDUSTRIAL                  BRANCHES ANDICULT
DEVELOPMENT       CO  A ERA ~~IMANAGEMIENT             DATA POCESSN          ACUTNPRETSAGENCIES                                                          PROJECTS
PROJECTS                      MANAGEMENT           EPARTMENT       DEPARTM ENT           DEPARTMENT                  DEPARTMENT II               DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32 BRANCHES
LEGAL                         OFCOF                RUE INES          PERSONNEL             CEI                  EEA                EIA   N                               2BACE
DEPARTMENT                    TESCETARY            RESEARCH          ADMINISTRATION        DEPARTMENT          SERVICES           DENTAL
DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT                                DEPARTMENT         DEPARTMENT
23 AGENCIES
World BRnk-9981






PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
ORGANIZATION CHART
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT I
SEER
SPECIAL ASSISTANT
I  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~   I ~~~~~~~~~~~         (1)
STAFF ASSISTANT
CHIEF ACCOUNTS
SERVICING AND
CREDITING AND
SPECIAL ASSISTANT
(2)
ASSISTANT MANAGER                                                                  ASSISTANT MANAGER
(EVALUATION)                                                                       (SUPERVISION)
.   |   (1) .                    AD~~~~~~MINISTRATIVE||(1.
|TECHNICAL            FINANCIAL  |                SERVICESS                                                    NT
ANALYSIS             ANALYSIS                                                     SUPERVISION           SUPERVISION
DIVISION             DIVISION                                                     DIVISION              DIVISION
(8)                  (6)                                                          (12)                  (20)
NOTE: Numbers in Parentheses refer to Number of Staff
World Bank-9984



