Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10727
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1334-GUB)
JUNE 22, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ACRONYMS
MNRI                        Ministry of Natural Resources and Industry
PETROMINAS                  Empresa Nacional de Pesquisa e Exploracao Petroiiferas
e Mineiras
The above was substituted in June 1966 by:
PETROGUIN                   Empresa Nacional de Pesquisa e Exploracao Petrolifera
DICOL                       Distribuidora de Combusteveis e Lubrificantes
ELF                         Essence et Lubriflants de France
HAI                         Hydrocarbon Associates Incorporated
OGCI                        Oil and Gas Consultants Incorporated



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Direct<v-Cenetal
Opftatm Evaluatrn
June 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Guinea-Bissau Second Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1334-GUB)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Guinea-Bissau Second Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project (Credit 1334-GUB)" prepared by the Africa Regional office with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evalua.tion Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may nvt otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1334-CUB)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page NO
PREPACE ...............................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................     ii
- Objectives ..............................................   ii
- Implementation Experience ................................  ii
- Results ........................ ......................    iii
- Lessons Learnt ..............................................  iv
PART I        PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTINE
A. PROJECT IDENTrY .1
B. BACKGROUND                            .I
- Policy Context .1
- Sectoral Development Objectives      .I
C.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPIION                                    2
D.  PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION.                                        3
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.                                                  3
- Exploration.                                                3
- Petroleum Products Pricing Study.                           5
- Training .....                    ,                         6
- Office Building.                                            6
F. PROJECT RESULTS.                                                         6
G. BANK PERFORMANCE.                                                        7
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE.                                                    8
I. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP.                                                    9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (c.ntinued)                                                                                  PageNo
J.          CONSULTING   SERVICES  ...........................................                                                        8
- Exploration  ......................................8...... 
- Legal ..................                    ..........................                                     8
- Audit .................                     ...........................                                    8
- Study of Petroleum Products Supply and
Distribution ............................................                                                 9
K.    PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA .......... ...........                                                                           9
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    SUMMARY ............................................                                                                           10
B.          ROLE  OF  PETROGUIN   ............................................                                                      11
C.          ROLE OF THE WORLD BANK ..............................11.......                                                          1
D.  RELATIONS BETWEEN THE WORLD BANK
AND PETROC'UIN .............. ...................                                                                       12
F[ART DI    STATISTICAL IFORIW&XXQ
1.          Related  Bank  Credits ..................................                          ..........                           13
2.          Project Time-Table  ............................                           ................                             13
3.          Credit Disbursements ..................................                              ..........                         14
4.          Project Implementation  . ...........................................                                                   14
5.          Project Costs ............................................                                                              15
6.          Project Results .................                         ...........................                                   16
A.          Direct Benefits ...........................................                          .                      16
B.          Economic  Impact ............................................                                               16
C.          Financial Impact ............................................                                               16
D.    Studies ............................................                                                              16
7.          Status of Covenants  ............................                          ................                             17
8.          Use of Bank  Resources ............................................                                                     18
A.          Staff Inputs ............................                      ................                             18
B.    Missions .....................................                                                                    19



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1334-GUB)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project for which Credit 1334-GUB in the amount of SDR 11.9 million was
approved on March 15, 1983, signed on March 24, 1983, and became effective on June 14,
1983. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1990, four years behind schedule. An undisbursed
amount of SDR 436,937 was cancelled on November 29, 1990 and the last disbursement was
on December 6, 1990.
The Project Completion Report was prepared by the Industry and Energy Opetations
Division of the Technical Department (AFTIE), Africa Region, (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and m), and the Borrower (Part H).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in October 1990 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit
Agreement, supervision reports, synthesis documents provided by the Borrower,
correspondence between the Borrower and the Bank, and internal Bank memoranda.



ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1334-GUB)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective-s
1.    In the early 1980's, Guinea-Bissau's petroleum requirements totalled approximately
20,C00 metric tons per year. This small amount notwithstanding, petroleum imports were-
and remain-of critical importance as they meet almost all the energy requirements of the
modern sector of the economy. Furthermore, petroleum import costs, at an annual average of
US$10 million, represented about 60% of merchandise export earnings.
2.    The Government objective for the sector was to develop economically viable domestic
resources in order to reduce petroleum imports. This objective was reflected in the energy
investment program, wLich included promotion of petroleum exploration as financed by the
Association under Credit 1095-GtJB, which was approved by the Board on January 13, 1981.
This promotional effort focussed on the offshore area between 20 and 200 meter water depth.
3.    The Government intended to pursue its policy of attracting private companies to
undertake exploration by opening up additional acreage. In 1982, based on its exploration
consultant's recommendations, the Government requested the Bank's assistance to finance
work needed to include the offshore area located in shallow water (i.e. in water depth of less
than 20 meters) in the next call for bids to the oil industry.
4.    The Second Exploration Promotion Project (aimed at rekindling the oil industry's
interest in exploration for petroleum in Guinea Bissau) included: (a) acquisition of 4,000 km
of new seismic data in the shallow water area; (b) consulting services to assist the national
agency PETROMINAS in supervising the acquisition, processing and interpretation of new
seismic data, integration of the new data generated with previously existing data, promotion of
the shallow water area to the oil industry, the negotiation of exploration and production
contracts, and the monitoring of the activities of oil companies; (c) the preparation of a
petroleum products pricing study; (d) provision of institutional support and office equipment
to PETROMINAS; and (e) training of PETROMINAS staff.
Implementation Experience
5.    The contract for the seismic survey was awarded to the American seismic company
DIGICON through direct negotiations (see Part I-paragraph 11). This procedure was
accepted because of the technical superiority of DIGICON systems fbr acquisition of seismic
data in shallow water. The company agreed to finance 50% of the cost of the seismic survey,



- iii -
against the right to sell the acquired data to the oil industry, in order to recover its
investment. Note that the same company had been selected to carry out the seismic survey
financed under the First Petroleum Exploration Pwoject (Cr. 1095-GUB).
6.    The shallow seismic survey was carried out and completed ih May/June 1983. In
spite of the difficulties of navigating and operating in shallow water, most of the seismic
program envisaged at the time of appraisal was carried out. Funds remaining under the
category were utilized to shoot a 2; * km detailed program around the well PGO3, in deeper
water.
7.    Results obtained in shallow water are not encouraging, since they show a Mesozoic
monocline overlaying a deep, fauilted, and ill-defined Paleozoic section. No proposal for
exploring the area was presented by the oil industry. However, seismic data acquired around
the well PGO3 disclosed an interesting exploration prospect.
8.    The Government decided to continue the services of tde same exploration consulting
company which had assisted PETROMINAS under the first Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project. The firm had performed satisfactorily under the first project.
9.    In the petroleum products supply and distribution subsector, inadequate prices had
weakened the financial position of the national company in charge of the supply and
distribution of petroleum products (DICOL). In order to address the issue, the project
included a study aimed at establishing an adequate pricing policy (CF. Part I, paragraphs 21
to 23). Upon analysis of four proposals for implementing the above study, the Government
awarded the contract to William Matthews and Associates, of Canada. The consultant
delivered his report in December 1985. He recommended that petroleum prices be brought
up to a level where they would be paying external and internal costs. These price changes
were to be phased in during the two subsequent years in order to minimize economic hardship
which might result from an immediate modifications.
Results
10.   Following the promotion seminars which were held in October 1985, PECTEN
International Company, of the U.S., entered into an exploration and production contract on
June 20 1986, covering six offshore blocks located on the offshore shelf (cf. Part I,
paragraphs 17 to 19 below). PECTEN drilled three exploration wells, which were all dry,
but yielded useful information on the geology of the area. The diapiric pattern of the
structural geology makes exploration difficult, and the possible existence of oil in this area is
no. precluded by the negative results of PECTEN's wells. Exploration activities in the
country may be resumed by the oil industry once the latter has understood the meaning of the
lack of success of Pecten's wells.
11.   Conversely, the shallow water area, where the bulk of seismic data acquired during
the project had been shot, did not arouse any interest among oil companies, and no one
purchased thee acquired seismic data.
12.   As a result of William Matthews and Associates' recommendations, petroleum product
prices were increased in April 1987. Subse'piently, pricing based on import parity was
established under SAC II. Moreover, compliance with a new pricing formula (designed by



- iv -
the Bank's specialists and included as an annex to the President's report for the new energy
project), will be a condition for disbursement under this project.
Lessons Learnt
13.   It was mentioned under paragraph 8 above that the Government retained for the
project under review the same exploration consultant- within the framework of a US$1.5
million contract-who had prov.ded assistance during the previous similar project. This
consultant performed a good technical job. However, since the consultant had made the
unusual recommendation to the Government to request a new petroleum exploration project
before the end of the second year of the first project, it would have been preferable, in order
to allay suspicions of a conflict of interest, to select the consultant through international
competitive bidding.
14.   Petrominas, which later on was transformed into Petroguin, was created upon the
Bank's suggestion, under the belief that the oil industry felt more comfortable in negotiating
contracts with a national oil company than with the Government. As a matter of fact, oil
companies want to deal with people corapetent and in a position to make valid decisions,
whatever be the institutional framework. Having such people in a Ministry saves the cost of a
national oil company, and results in a more flexible answer to the variations of petroleum
exploration activities in the country. For example, during the present period of exploration
inactivity which has followed the drilling of three dry wells in Guinea Bissau, Petroguin's
staff is to a great extent unemployed, and the Government is trying to wind down an
institution which has become unproductive. As long as a country has not become a significant
oil producer the creation of a national oil company is unnecessary and cumbersome.
15.   The Government financed a seismic survey in the shallow water area, for an amount
of approximately US$9 million dollars, which resulted in confirming the already suspected
lack of interest of the area. Generally speaking, carrying out extensive seismic surveys is
targeted to initially delineate the most attractive area within a sedimentary basin, and then to
define drilling locations, which the oil companies rightly see as their role. In order to attract
oil companies in the exploration of a given basin, it is only necessary to develop broadly
outlined exploration targets (called "conceptual plays" in the oil industry language). Work
programs to develop these exploration plays may include light exploration methods such as
geochemical analyses (to demonstrate the existence of source rocks), seismic data reprocessing
(to show the structural style of a given area, and/or outline the sedimentological pattern of a
given geological layer), or satellite imagery studies (to detect deep seated tectonical features).
16.   The Association granted four one-year extensions to the project, in order to assist the
Government in monitoring the exploration activities generated by the second petroleum
exploration promotion. The chronology of events was as follows: the promotional seminar in
Texas was held on October 16, 1985; on May 20, 1986, Pecten sent a contractual proposal to
the Government; the exploration and production contract with Pecten was signed on June 20,
1987; on January 25, 1988, Pecten acquired a 37.75% working interest in ELF petroleum
rights; Pecten carried out a seismic survey in early 1988, and subsequently drilled three wells,
out of which the first one was spudded on November 11, 1989 and the last one completed on
March 23, 1990. From the promotion as a starting point, the overall cycle of exploration from
contract negotiating and signing to the completion of the last well took five years. This case
history illustrates the inadequacy of a three year period for a petroleum exploration promotion
project. A five year period would be more adapted to the actual pace of the oil industry.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLCRATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1334-GUB)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name       Second Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project
Credit No          Credit 1334-GUB
RVP Unit    :      Africa Region Country Department IV
Country      :     Guinea Bissau
Sector       :     Energy
Subsector          Petroleum
B.    Background
Policy Context
1.    The difficult situation of Guinea Bissau in the early 1980's stemmed from policies
followed after independence. Substantial international assistance and inadequate aid
management led to a mushrooming of projects, many of them ill-conceived and overlapping.
This lack of appropriate macroeconomic policy resulted in a difficult external payments
position: the overall deficit reached US$8 million in 1980, and the debt service amounted to
US$10.1 million in 1981. The Government was keen to rehabilitate the national economy,
and to bring the commercial and financial external payments position back intc balance.
Sectoral Development Objectives
2.    To that effect, the Government's energy sector objective was designed to develop
economically viable domestic energy resources in order to reduce petroleum imports and to
enhance the efficiency of energy use. This objec*i;-, was illustrated by its energy investment
plan, which amounted to US$16 million in the pe,od 1978-1982 and included promotion of
petroleum exploration financed by the Association (Credit 1095-GUB for SDR1 1.9 million),
and the expansion of generation facilities as well as rural electrificaticn financed by AFDB
and various bilateral aid agencies.
3.    In accordance with the Government's sectoral objective, Project 1334-GUB aimed at
promoting Guinea-Bissau's sedimentary offshore basin (i.e. attempting to attract oil companies
for the petroleum exploration of the area), and in particular the shallow offshore area.



C.    Project Objectives and Description
4.    As a conclusion of the regional geological evaluition of Guinea-Bissau's offshore
sedimentary basin carried out under the first exploration promotion project, the Government's
exploration consultant recommended that a shallow water seismic survey be conducted (4,000
line km), in order to include this area in the following round of bidding. Sh::e there were no
remaining available funds under the first Credit to finance this seismic survey, the consultant
suggested to the Government to request a second petroleum exploration promotion project
from the Association.
5.    Although Petrominas was of the opinion that more thought should be given to the
matter, the Government followed the recommendations of the consultant, which had been
endorsed by the World Bank. The Credit was granted by the Association, for a total amount
of US$13.1 million. The effective date was June 14, 1983, approximately 2 year.: and 5
months after the effective date of the first petroleum exploration promotion project.
6.    The project was conceived as a continuation of the first one, and was aimed at: (a)
assisting the Government with its promodional efforts (i.e. its endeavor to convince oil
companies of the significant hydrocarbon potential of the country's sedimentary basins); and
(b) continuing institutional support to Petrominas. It consisted of:
(a)    Geophysical work:    Some 4,000 km of new seismic data to be collected in
Guinea Bissav's shallow offshore in water depths of less than 20 m and
processed;
(b)    Exploration work: Exploration consultants would be retained to:
(i)     assist Petrominas in supervising the seismic survey;
(ii)     conduct special processing of data collected given the nature of
exploration targets:
(iii)    evaluate the new geophysical data generated and integrate it
with existing data;
(iv)     prepare a report on the petroleum potentia of the shallow
water area surveyed and the country in general;
(v)      promote the area to attract interest of oil companies;
(vi)     assist in negotiation of exploration-production contracts; and
(vii)     assist PETROMINAS in monitoring the activities of operat3ng
companies.
(c)    Legal and Economic work: consultants would be retained to assist with the
economic, financial and legal aspects of negotiating with oil companies.



-3-
(d)    Pricing study: a consultant would be retained to collect data and prepare a
petroleum products pricing study which was intended to serve as a basis for
establishing a more rational pricing structure.
(e)   Institutional Support
(i)     The project provided for part-time assistance of various
petroleum specialists; and
(ii)     Procurement and installation of office equipment.
D.    Project Design and Organization
7.    Since the project under review was a continuation of the first petroleum exploration
project, it was very well prepared, which was illustrated by the absence of any important
variance during the course of the credit. In a similar manner, since the parties involved in the
implementation of the first petroleum exploration project prepared the second project, they
also understood perfectly the conceptual foundation of the latter. The same public agency
which had been responsible for the implementation of the first credit was also the executive
agency for the second one.
8.    Since the Association granted three one-year extensions to the first Credit, both
projects progressed alongside one another for three and a half years. It is therefore not
always possible to distinguish between operations carried out under the two projects.
9.    An institutional study of the petroleum subsector in Guinea Bissau was carried out
under the first project. The consultant in charge ot the study presented its report in July
1984. In accordance with the consultant's recommendations, Petrominas shedded its mining
activities in 1986, and was renamed Petroguin. The latter name will be used in the following
chapters o: this report.
E.    Project Implementation
xploratio
10.   As was mentioned in the Evaluation Summary (Paragraph 8), the Government, with
the agreement of the Bank, decided to retain the same exploration consulting rirm which had
assisted Petrominas in implementing the work program of the first exploration promotion
project. The local experience of the firm was important, since it had already been selected by
direct negotiation in March 1980 to prepare the first project.
11.   The American company DIGICON was selected to carry out the seismic survey,
because this company had recently built a ship especially constructed for shallow waters (cf.
Evaluation Summary - paragraph 5 above). Its instruments included a digital system that
other companies had yet to develop.
12.   Government had initially considered a seismic program including the acquisition of
2,000 km of fresh data. It further agreed with DIGICON offer to finance 2,000 km more,



within the framework of a speculative contract. Under this type of agreement the company
finances the acquisition of seismic data, on condition tha:. it can market the data in order to
recover its costs.
13.   Some difficulties were encountered by the sei6nic boat near the islands and near
onshore areas, because of reefs or sand bars coming near to the surface of the water. As a
variance to the main components of the project, the seismic program was accordingly
modified. 200 km of detailed program were shot in the area of PGO3--a well which had
produced some oil--to complete the 4,000 km envisaged at the time of appraisal. These
detailed seismic lines disclosed an interesting structural feature, which may have contributed
in attracting the 11 company Pecten to explore the area.
14.   The DIGICON interpretation was complemented by a seirmic-stratigraphic study
carried out by an American company. This study gave good stratigraphic indications but did
not result in the definition of well-supported conceptual plays.
15.   It will be recalled that the promotional seminars organized in November 1981 under
the first projcat resulted in the signature of a petroleum exploration and production contract
with a group of international companies led by ELF-Aquitaine, covering two offshore
exploration blocks KANGORENE permit). In 1984, the contractor drilled an exploration well
which was reported dry.
16.   New data acquired during the second projLvt were presented to the oil industry during
seminars which were held respectively irn Houston (Texas) and London on October 16 and 23,
1985. The exploration consultant was assisted in this exercise by an American consultant
whose work was of an excellent standard. As a result of the promotion activities, Pecten
International Company sent a proposal for an exploration contract on May 28, 1986.
17.   On June 20, 1987, a petroleum exploration and production agreement was signed with
Pecten, covering six blocks (ANTIBENE perm.t) located south of the ELF-Aquitaine blocks.
On January 25, 1988, Pecten further displayed its interest in the area by acquiring a 37.5%
working interest in the ELF-Aquitaine consortium acreage, and becoming the operator for the
Consortium (Cf. Evaluation Summary - paragraph 10 above).
18.   In early 1988, PECTEN carried out a seismic survey ir.cluding 1,100 km in the
ANGORENE permit (ELF-Aquitaine blocks) and 4,900 km in its own ANTIBENE permit.
Interpretation of seismic data led the company to drill three wells between November 11,
1989 and March 23, 1990 (two wells in the ANTIBENE permit and one in the ANGORENE
permit). All three wells were reported dry.
19.   The independent well-site consultant who assisted PETROGUIN in monitoring the
wells drilled by PECTEN expressed some reservations in his final report with regards to the
well-site operations as carried out by the operator. Although this report did not cause any
trouble in the relationship between the Government and the Contractor, it is recommended to
have an independent evaluation of drilling operations carried out by a highly qualified
consultant in well-site and whe-logging operations.
20.   Guinea Bissau was subsequenly included in a regional study comprising five West
African countries (Mauritania, Senegal, The Gambia and Guinea Conakry), and known under
the acronym MSGB. The study was completed in 1987. However, due to time and financial



-5-
constraints, and to the involvement in the study of different consultants, with poor
coordination, the study was more a juxtaposition of local studies than an actual regional study.
Lessons learnt from this experience were used in designing the work program of other
regional studies executed by the Bank.
Petroleum Products Pricing Study
21.   In the petroleum downstream subsector, electricity tariffs which had remained frozen
since 1974 resulted in subsidies of gasoil used for electricity generation. Inadequate prices
also weakened the financial position of public enterprises in the subsector, which was further
aggravated by managerial weaknesses and non-payment by Government agencies for products
provided. DICOL sustained losses amounting to US$1.5 million equivalent in 1981. Within
this context, the Project included a study on options and steps to be taken to establish an
adequate petroleum product pricing system.
22.   Four proposals to carry out the study were received from qualified consultants. Upon
an evaluation of the proposals, and with the agreement of the Bank, the Government selected
a Canadian consultant, of Ottawa (Canada). After having completed his study, the consultant
issued a report including the following recommendations:
(a)    a standard formula should be established in the price structure for DICOL's
CIF cost, based on op,portunity cost at world levels;
(b)   DICOL's terminal and distribution costs should be allocated in the price
structure to each product at each distribution level based on identifiable
accounting costs;
(c)    a price stabilization fund should be established as an element in the official
price structure, which would serve to cushion consumers from precipitous
changes in final prices while adhering to the principle of full cost recovery.
23.   Progress were made towards transparency in petroleum products pricing, and prices
were accordingly readjusted upward in April 1987. Another readjustment was made in
October 1990, under SAC II, when an import parity system for petroleum pricing was
established. Bank's specialists further refined this price structure: total transparency would be
established, and the stabilization fund proposal was not adopted. Compliance with this new
pricing structure will be a condition for disbursement under a new energy project, which was
presented to the Board on May 7, 1991.
Training
24.   Three Petroguin staff received training in the US, organized in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Training started with a six-month course in English in the University of Tulsa, followed by
training program in petroleum geology and geophysics. The results were generally good.
Further training needs were covered either by the companies operating in Guinea Bissau (an
annual amount of US$50,000 for training was included in the agreement with ELF) or from
bilateral aid. As a global result of these different training sources, there is now within
Petroguin a cell of qualified technicians in petroleum exploration.
Office Building



-6 -
25.   It will be recalled that the first project included the construction of a prefabricated
office building and a second building aimed at providing accommodation for the consultants
employed under the project. As was mentioned in the Project Completion Report for the first
Credit, Petroguin had embarked, with the Association's agreement, on a project for
constructing a permanent building, financed with the revenue from the sale of seismic data
(US$1.2 million). However, the Central Bank disposed of the hard currency derived from the
sale of promotional documents, and in 1986, when the first Credit was closed, the building
had not been erected.
26.   The Central Bank of Guinea Bissau eventually transferred US$150,000 to Petroguin's
account in foreign currency. In addition, the US$500,000 signature bonus paid by Pecten
(i.e. the bonus paid by Pecten, according to its contractual commitments, upon the signature
of its exploration contract) was also deposited to the same account. Petroguin decided to use
these funds to finance its building. The Bank agreed to assist Petroguin technically and
financially in the operation, within an amount of US$400,000. However, since the building
construction project took various turns during 1987-1989 (important building, prefabricated
offices, smaller construction) the opportunity to amend the second project to finance the
Petroguin building was lost.
27.   Eventually, during the fourth extension to the project, Petroguin requested the
Association to finance the purchase and the rehabilitation of an existing building in Bissau (it
was not clear if the request regarded the construction or the rehabilitation of the building). It
was then clarified that Association guidelines require that IDA/Bank funds can only be used to
finance new assets.
F.    Proiect Results
28.   Aside from the modification made in the program of the seismic survey (Cf.
paragraph 13 above), the main variances between planned and actual implementation of the
project relate to its time frame. As a result of the promotion held in November 1985, Pecten
entered into an exploration and production contract in May 1986. Negotiations between the
ELF-Aquitaine group and Pecten resulted in the latter acquiring a 37.5% working interest in
ELF-Aquitaine acreage. New seismic data were acquired in early 1988, and the Contractor
drilled three exploration wells which were completed in March 1990. In order to assist
Petroguin in monitoring these exploration activities, the Credit was extended for four periods.
These variances in the implementation schedule of the project show that the three year period
initially planned for this petroleum exploration project is significantly shorter than an average
exploration cycle in the petroleum industry (Cf. Evaluation Summary, paragraph 16).
29.   As mentioned in paragraph 18 above, Pecten drilled three exploration wells in 1990,
all of them being reported dry. This result does not preclude a possible later discovery in the
region. As far as geology is concerned, the area is marked by salt domes (diapirs), created
by the weight of overlaying sediments. Upward movement of the salt resulted in uplifting and
faulting surrounding sediments. This mechanism may create petroleum entrapments (as
illustrated by the prolific oil and gas fields discovered in the American Gulf Coast in a similar
geological environment). The complexity resulting from the salt movement, however,
consieerably complicates the exploration for the traps which are believed to be present.



-7-
30.   In the short term, however, the negative results of the Pecten wells will have a
deterrent effect on the oil industry, which would outweigh any promotional efforts. It is
recommended that the Government does not spend money at this time in attempting to
rekin.dle the interest of the oil industry in the exploration of the area.
31.   During the course of the project, the Association found that the installations of the
Public Company in charge of petroleum products supply and distribution (DICOL), and in
particular the fire fighting facilities, were not in working condition. Most of the equipment
needed to be either rehabilitz'.-d or replaced. It was also found that the south-eastern part of
the country was poorly supplied in petroleum products. Upon a request presented by the
Government, the Association agreed to grant a new Credit aimed at addressing these issues.
32.   A consultant was contracted, under the project under review, for a cost under
US$30,000, to cost-estimate the various components of the project. The consultant performed
very satisfactorily and delivered his report in early April 1990, before the pre-appraisal
mission of the new Energy Project had left Washington.
33.   The new project, which was presented to the Board on May 7, 1991, includes a
covenant regarding the petroleum pricing structure as established by the Association and
described in Annex 3.3 of the President's report.
34.   The new Credit includes consulting services for an amount of US$0.1 million, aimed
at integrating the new data obtained from the three exploration wells drilled by Pecten into the
previously established geological framework, and evaluating the drilling operations as carried
out by Pecten (Cf. paragraph 19 above).
G.    Project Sustainabitiy
35.   Scientific knowledge acquired under the Credit will be maintained through the
integration of technical information obtained from the drilling of Pecten wells in a synthesis
geological report, under the new Energy Credit. However, in the absence of further
exploration activities in the country, experience acquired by Petroguin staff may progresively
become obsolete.
H.    Bank Perfo
36.   To the extent that the main component of the project (i.e.seismic data acquisition) is
not questioned, the Bank played a satisfactory role in providing appropriate recommendations
to the Government when unexpected exploration results were obtained (such as the difficulties
encountered by the seismic boat to operate in the near shore area-see Part I paragraph 13).
The Bank also assisted the Government in finding a geophysical contractor who agreed to
cofinance the acquisition of seismic data. On the other hand, Bank's guidelines for the
selection of consultants should have been more closely followed (Cf. Evaluation Summary,
paragraphs 8 and 13). Furthermore, as was already the case during the first petroleum
exploration promotion project, the Bank did not pay sufficient attention to the exploration
consulting firm's financial behavior and relied too heavily on the same consultants'
recommendations .



- 8-
37.   To its credit, the Bank flagged in good time the issue of the dangerous situation
prevailing in DICOL's petroleum products storage facilities, due to the worn-out condition of
most of the equipment, in particular the fire fighting facilities. The Bank agreed to grant a
Credit aimed at renovating these facilities.
I.    Borrower Performance
38.   rTe Borrower always provided the appropriate support and cooperation to visiting
consultants, as well as to Bank missions. Furthermore, during the course of the project, the
Borrower took an active part in the decision making process and in the project's
implementation. It also assisted very efficiently in the preparation of the new Energy Credit.
However, the Borrower did not always follow the rules set in the Credit Agreement foi hiring
consultants (such as the contracting of the Portuguese company which provided consulting
services to monitor the exploration activities of oil companies), and did not always provide the
Association with periodic reports about the implementation of the project or the required
annual audit reports, within the prescribed time frame.
J.    Project Relationship
39.   The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was very good during the greater
part of the project, which contributed to its success. Relations were sometimes clouded when
the Bank endorsed the recommendations of consultants without the full agreement of
Petroguin, though connections remained warm during most of the time. Towards the end of
the project however, the relationship, dampened by Bank's position regarding the Petroguin
building, was further degraded by the Association's suggestion to dissolve the Agency.
K.    Consulting services
Exploration
40.   The exploration consulting performed its technical assigmnent in a very satisfactory
manner, and the regional report which it produced received praise from highly qualified
international geologists. This report, and its presentation to oil companies, contributed to the
exploration and production contract signed with the oil companies. However, the financial
and accounting behavior of the consultant did not match its technical capability.
Leai
41.   The firm specializing in petroleum exploration contractual and fiscal regime assisted
the Government in the negotiations with ELF-Aquitaine and with Pecten in a very satisfactory
manner. Its participation resulted in petroleum exploration and production contracts
preserving the Government's interest in the event of hydrocarbon discovery.



-9 -
AuOh
42.   The audit company emplyed by the Government during the First Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Credit (CR. 1095-GUB) was retained for the second petroleum project
because of the quality of its services during the implementation of the first project. The firm
prepared a good audit of Petroguin's accounts, and proceeded with the training of the
Agency's accountants which had been commenced with the first project. Furthermore, the
consultant flagged whenever necessary the questionable accounting practice of the exploration
consulting firm.
Study of Petroleum Products Supply and Distribution
43.   William Matthews and Associates, who had been selected according to ICB,
performed well, producing a very good report and valuable recommendations. These
contributed to convincing the Government to increase retail prices of petroleum products in
order to reflect actual procurement and operating costs. Furthermore, the consultant was the
first to flag the dangerous conditions prevailing in DICOL°S storage facilities.
L.    Project Documentation and Data
44.   Since the petroleum exploration promotion projects 1095-GUB and 1334-GUB
overlapped, and were of similar nature, it would in retrospect have been advisable to prepare
a common Project Completion Report for both Credits.
45.   Abundant documentation in Bank's files assisted in the drafting of this PCR. The
Borrower corrected a few errors and provided complementary information.
46.   The legal documents related with the project under review offered an adequate
reference during the project. The Credit Agreement's covenants provided useful benchmarks
during the implementation of the Credit.



- 10-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1334-GUB)
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. SUMMARX
1.    Pollowing the World Bank's first Credit to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau to finance
petroleum exploration activities, which covered only the deep-water zone, the Government
obtained a second Credit to help finance operations in shallow waters.
2.    Ihe Credit, in the amount of SDR 11,900,000, was allocated as follows:
1.    Seismic survey ............................  SDR 9,100,000
2.    Services of consultants and advisors ......... ........... 1,820,000
3.    Petrleum pricing study ............................5 0,000
4.    Equipment and furniture ............................ 270,000
5.    Training and scholarships ..........................    100,000
6.    Unallocated ............................                     560,000
3.    The Credit was approved on March 24, 1983 and the closing date was fixed for
December 31, 1985. However, since the planned program had not been completed by the
Initial closing date, the Credit was extended a number of times, the final closing date being
June 1990.
4.    The project was conceived and implemented at a time when the results of the first
Credit were still not known, for which reason the executing agency believed that operations
should not be initiated unti' these findings were available. This view was not shared by the
consutants, Atlantic Resources, Ltd., and even less by the World Bank representative in
Guinea-Bissau.
S.    Therefore, a start was made even before the Credit was approved on seismic data
acquisition using DIGICON, within E speculative survey framework.
6.    As regards project execution, the planned program was in general terms implemented
in full, except for the construction or purchase of a building for PETROGUIN.
7.    During project execution PETROGUIN always took pains to satisfy the requirements
of the Credit Agreement, observing the World Bank's guidelines for the procurement of goods
and sices and always consulting with the Bank where necessary.



- 11 -
8.    Under the Credit Agreement a number of contracts were signed with specialized
consulting firms and companies for purposes of project implementation, among which should
be mentioned:
DIGICON - Seismic data collection;
HAT - Ad\ice on negotiations with companies;
Atlantic Resources, Ltd. - Production of booklet for promotion purposes;
Arthur Young and Company - Audits, advice on accounting and training;
PARTEX - Technical assistance and training;
William Matthews - Petroleum pricing study;
Petroconsultants - Preparation of the MSGB repor;
MAP Engineering Services, Inc. - Technical advice for the promotion campaign;
CORELAB - Supervision of wells drilled by Pecten;
Edgar Schlabach - Study of premises for fuel storage and visit to
new storage locations;
TRANZACORES - Supply of equipment;
BEICIP - Geochemical study;
Morgal International - Supply or vehicles.
9.    All these contracts were satisfactorily executed except that with Atlantic Resources,
which gave rise to a series of difficulties attributable to the company; this led to the contract
for preparation of the MSGB report being withdrawn at the insistence of the World Bank.
B.    ROLE OF PETROGUIN
10.   As laid down in the Credit Agreement, the Borrower made PETROGUIN the
executing agency for the project. Given the lack of experience of its personnel and the need
for credible st'idies to present to foreign companies, PETROGUIN either continued earlier
contracts with consultants or made new ones. Using the experience acquired under the
previous project, efforts were focused on getting more companies interested in exploration in
Guinea-Bissau. To this end, a study was made of the subregional sedimentary basin, with the
participation of the other countries concerned.
11.   In this context, PETROGUIN negotiated and signed an exploration contract with
PECTEN Guinea-Bissau, with which Walter International and IFC were associated.
12.   On the basis of the experience acquired in executing the two projects, PETROGUIN
submitted to the World Bank a request for financing to study the paleozoic section, and at the
same time to carry out an aeromagnetic study on behalf of the mining sector.
13.   However, the World Bank refused to finance this project in light of the negative
results of the paleozoic section study in the Republic of Guinea (Conakry). In our view,
however, this reasoning is quite unacceptable for a number of reasons.
C.    ROLE OF THE WORLD BANK
14.   In its capacity as lender, the World Bank through its staff closely supervised the
progress of the project, whether as regards execution of service contracts, supply of
equipment, or monitoring of project tasks or studies. During the life of the Credit,



- 12 -
PETROGUIN invariably received support from the World Bank with a view to proper project
Implementation, and the company was visited on a number of occasions by Bank missions.
15.   However, the support provided by the World Bank began to weaken during the last
three months of project execution; we attribute this to the three dry wells drilled in Guinea-
Bissau, or to the new energy sector policy defined by the World Bank Board.
D.  RELAIO BErWEEN THE WQOL BANK AND PROGUIN
16.   'he relations between the World Bank and PETROGUIN during project execution
were always amicable, being reflected in frank exchanges of views which in general
contibuted to the almost complete implementation of the planned program.
17.   Nevertheless, after PECTEN had drilled three dry wells, the World Bank's attitude to
operations in the sector for which PETROGUIN is responsible changed.
18.   This change was reflected in the cut in financing for the third project and the refusal
to pay for generating sets for the company, although the Bank is quite familiar with Guinea-
Bissau's energy problems.
19.   However, the company is convinced that the relationship between the World Bank and
PETIROGUIN will be reviewed in depth and hopes that the good working relations built up
over the past 10 years will continue, to the benefit of Guinea-Bissau's development and in line
with World Bank aims.
This completes the report.
Bissau, April 12, 1991
The Director General
/s/ Ant6nio Cardoso



- 13 -
PROJECT COIWLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1334-GUB)
PART IIIs STATISTICAL IN7ORMATION
1.    Related Bank Credits
Credit                                Year of
n "it              Purpose            Approval    SttsComments
iPAt Project
1095-GUB          Petroleum          01/13/81     Closed       Reasonably
Exploration                                 Successful
Promotion
Future uriect
Energy Project    05/07/91    Will be launched
in October 1991
2.    Prject Time-Tabl
Date    Date       Date
mtm                            Planne   Revised    ActuaI
First Mention in
the Files                                         03/16/88
Identification                                     11/10/88
Project Brief                                      10/08/82
Credit Negotiations      01/83        01/19/83    01/12/83
Board Presentation       03/83                    03/15/83
Credit Signature                                  03/24/83
Effective Date           05/83                    06/14/83



- 14 -
Credit Closing            06/30/86     06/30/87     06/30/90
Completion Date             12/31/85   06/30/87     12/31/90
Comments:   Since the project had been discussed in depth during supervision missions of
the first Petroleum Exploration Promotion Credit, no formal appraisal mission was carried
out, and no appraisal report was prepared.
3.    Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY                 83    84    85    86    87    88    89    90
Appraisal
Estimate          1.5  10,3  12.5  13.1
Actual            10.4  11.2  11.3  11.7  11.9  11.9  12.2    12.2
Actual as %
of Estimate        0    100   90   86    89    91   93          93
Comments:   At the end of the project, a remaining amount of US$0.48 million was
canceled. The last disbursement was on December 06, 1990.
4.    Proiect Implementation
Appraisal                 Actual
indicators                             Estimate                  Estimate
Preparation of a petroleum
products pricing study                 06/30/84                  12/ 85
Approval of DIGICON contract            03/83                    02/83
Completion of the regional
study                                   05/84                    06/85
Promotional Seminar                    first half 85             10/85
5.    Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal amounts are those mentioned in the President's Report.



- 15 -
A. Project Costs
(In US$ '000)
Foreign                   Foreign
Local Exchange           Local   Exchange
Cost   Cost   Total      Cost      Cost        Total
Seismic Survey           0      20,000  20,000      0       20,029      20,024
Special Processing       0        500    500        0         187          187
Exploration Consultants   50      950   1,000       110      1,798       1,608
Legal/Economic Consultant   20    100    120        30        109          134
Pricing Study             10       40     50        20        79           94
Resident Experts          90      500      590      60         147         202
Equipment                0        150    100         0        79           79
Training                  0       100    100         0        147          147
Unallocated              0        760    760                   0
Cancelled                                                    437
TOTAL                     170   23,100   23,270    220        22,687    22,907
Comments: Note (Ref. Evaluation Summary, paragraph 5, and Part 1, paragraph 12) that the
geophysical company financed the acquisition of 2,000 kn more of seismic lines within the
framework of a speculative contract.
B. Proiect Financing
(US$'000)
Planned
Credit
Agment        Final        CoMMents
IDA                13,000       12,675        None
Domestic            200           220         None
Other Sources      10,000       10,012        None
Total              23,200       22,907



- 16-
(b) IDA broken-down costs per category are given paragraph 5 (A) above.
6.    Project Results
A. D-itect Beneflts
Appraisal                 Actual
Indicators                Estimat                    Estimate
Attracting foreign          many                  one contract
capital for petroleum     contracts
exploration offshore
Intensifying hydrocarbon    --                Acquisition of 5,000
exploration                                   km of seismic lines
and three wells drilled
Petroleum Discovery       Possible                No discovery
Improved knowledge        Expected                   Obtained
B. EconomicJ Imp_
Not Applicable
C. Financial Im=act
Not Relevant
D. Studies
Purpose as
defined at                              Impact of
Appraisal           St            Study
Studies
DIGICON             Useful for          Completed      Objective met
seismic             preparing the
report              regional
study
Regional study      Promotion           Completed       Objective met
Petroleum           Macroeconomic       Completed        Significant
products            Benefits
pricing



- 17 -
study
7.    Status of Covenants
Credit
Covenant          Agreement                           Slu
Employing exploration, I11-3.02                          iet
accounting and legal
consultants
Furnishing reports  m1-3.04 (a)                         Met
prepared under the
project to the
Association
Furnishing quarterly  III-3.04 (b)              Met, often activity
reports with delay
Establishing of  III-3.05                          Met, with delay
a new pricing
system before
06/30/84
Maintaining accounts IV-4.01 (a)                        Met
with respect to the
project
Having these accounts IV-4.01 (b)                       Met, with
audited                                               occasional delay
Depositing in a     IV-4.03                             Met only in
private account                                      September 1987
proceeds from sales
of reports



* t
- 18 -
8.    Use of Bak Resoce
A. StaffJIaf
Stage of                                         Staff
PMlect C,X&                                       Weks
Through Appraisal                                   9.9
Appraisal thro.sgh Board Approval                   9.9
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                7.4
Supervision                                         98.2
TOTAL                                               125.4
B. Missions
Stage of                                             Performance
Project Month/ Number of Days in       Specializaton    rating
QE&    X=          Pesn   thefield     Rreented SMu
Before
Board
Approval
Bissau  10/83      1         S          ECN                1
Supervision
Bissau  03/84      2         4         ECN-GST             1
Bissau  07/84      2         3         ECN/GST             1
Lisbon  08/84      2         5         ECN/GST             1
Lisbon  12/84      1         3         GST                 1
Lisbon  02/85      1         3         GST                 I
Bissau  02/85      3         3         ECN/IFIN/GST        1
Lisbon  04/85      3         3         ECN/:IN/GST         1
Houston 10/85      2         2         GST/ECN             I
London 04/86       1         3         OST                 1



B  19 
Bissau  11/86       1        3         GST                 1
Bissau  05/87       1        5         GST                 1
Paris   10/87      2         2         EGR/GST             1
Bissau  12/87       1        5         GST                 1
Bissau  03/88       1        5         GST                 1
Bissau  08/89       1        5         GST                 I
Bissau  04/90       1         1        GST/EGR             2 (b)
Bissau  10/90       1         1        GST                 2 (b)
Comnr ,is:   (a)    The last two missions coincided with the preparation and appraisal
missions of the new energy project.
(b)   Both missions presented minor problems, since one of the item
discussed with PETROGUIN staff was the winding out of the
company, while maintaining of *he experience gained by its personnel
and the technical data base acquired during the project.
(c)    Key to Specialization:
ECN: Economist
FIN: Financial Analyst
EGR: Engineer
GST: Geologist/Geophysicist
(d)   Key to rating:
I - no problem
2 - minor problem



