Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RETJPRN To
Report No. P-3404-GUB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $13.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A
SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
February 24, 1983
T lhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit               =        Guinea-Bissau Peso (GP)
US$1.00            =        GP 41.00      (1983)
GP 100.00          =        US$2.44      (1983)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
BD                          Barrels per day
m3                          cubic meters, equivalent to
6.3 barrels of oil
Gwh                         gigawatt hours, equivalent to
1 million kWh
kWh                         kilowatt hours
MW                          megawatts, equivalent to
1000 kilowatts
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB              African Development Bank
ARL               Atlantic Resources Ltd.
DICOL             Sociedade Distribuidora de Combustiveis e Lubrificantes
DIGICON           Digicon Corp. (US)
EEC               European Economic Community
INE               Instituto Nacional de Energia (National Energy Institute)
MRN               Ministerio dos Recursos Naturais (Ministry of Natural
Resources)
PETROMINAS        Empresa Nacional de Pesquisa e Exploragao Petroliferas e
Mineiras (National Corporation for Petroleum and Mineral
Research and Exploration)
PETROBRAS         Petr6leo Brasileiro, S.A.
SIDA              Swedish International Development Authority
Toe               tons of oil equivalent
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Beneficiary:               The Government would transfer the proceeds of the IDA
credit as a grant to Petrominas, the Government-owned
oil and mining company.
Amount:                    SDR 11.9 million (US$13.1 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard
Project Description:       The project would assist the Government to continue
to promote offshore exploration initiated under the
first project. Under the first project about 14,000
sq. km. of deeper offshore acreage has been offered
to the oil industry for bidding. The proposed
project would concentrate on the shallow water area
and would consist of: (i) collection, processing and
evaluation of new seismic data in the shallow
offshore area, extending from the coastline to the 20
meter water depth; (ii) evaluation of this new data
and its integration with existing information; (iii)
preparation of a report on the shallow water area and
its promotion within the industry; (iv) negotiation
of exploration and production contracts in this area
with oil companies; (v) monitoring the work programs
of these companies once exploration begins; (vi)
institutional support and training; and, (vii) pre-
paration of a petroleum pricing study.
Benefits and Risks:        The project would help determine the existence of
economically exploitable oil deposits in the shallow
water area and is expected to attract foreign capital
for intensive exploration work. The risk associated
with exploration is that'the prospects uncovered may
not be attractive enough for oil companies to sign
exploration contracts. In view of the geological
potential, the interest already expressed by some oil
companies, and the experience under the first
project, the potential benefits outweigh the risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost
(Excluding identifiable taxes and duties)
Foreign           Local          Total
------------------(US$000)--------------
Seismic survey                      20,000               -          20,000
Special processing                     500              -               500
Exploration Consultants                950              50            1,000
Legal/Economic Consultants             100              20              120
Pricing Study                            40             10               50
Resident Experts                       500             90               590
Office Equipment & Furnishings         250          _                   250
22,340            170           22,510
Physical Contingencies                 220              15              235
Price Contingencies                    540              15              555
760             30              790
TOTAL                               23,100            200           23,300
Foreign           Local          Total
Financing Plan:                ----------------------(US$000)-------------
IDA                           13,100               -          13,100
Government                       -                200            200
Digico                        10,000              -           10,000
TOTAL             23,100              200         23,300
Estimated Disbursements
from the IDA Credit:                 FY83         FY84         FY85       FY86
Annual                   1,500         8,800        2,200        600
Cumulative               1,500        10,300       12,500    13,100
Rate of Return:                       N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:               N.A.
Map:    IBRD 16817
1/ DIGICON Corp. (USA) was contracted under the first petroleum project
(Credit 1095-GUB) to conduct the offshore seismic survey (para. 35).



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMIENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau for an amount in various
currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 11.9 million (US$13.1 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second petroleum explora-
tion promotion project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report on Guinea-Bissau (3529-GUB), dated May 21,
1982, has been circulated to the Executive Directors. The following assessment
of the current situation and prospects of the economy is based on the conclu-
sions of that report and updated figures provided by U.N. sources. Country
data appear in Annex I.
The Setting
3.       Guinea-Bissau is a small nation of around 810,000 inhabitants (1982)
located on the West African coast between Senegal and Guinea. Together with
the Archipelago of Bijagos, the country covers an area of 36,135 km2 (13,938
mi2). The territory is generally flat with a few hills and a coastline inter-
rupted by six large estuaries which run far inland.  The soils are mostly
alluvial and fertile; rainfall is sufficient for a variety of crops, but the
country is not immune from drought. The society is segmented, with several
ethnic groups along the coast (each with its own language, cultural values and
social organization) and Islamic peoples in the interior. Portuguese is the
official language, but only one-tenth of the population can speak it. Criolo
is the common language in the country. Bissau is the national capital, the
country's main port, and its largest city (115,000)
4.       Guinea-Bissau became independent in 1974 and has since been governed
by the sole political party (PAIGC) as a non-aligned centrally planned eco-
nomy. The Government controls most of the modern sector of the economy, with
a smallholder sector prevailing in agriculture. Politically, Guinea-Bissau
has been quite stable, in spite of a major change in the party leadership in
late 1980. The Party had been common to Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde since
the beginning of the liberation movement in 1960, and after independence many
Cape-Verdeans held positions in Bissau's public administration.  Nationalist
feelings against the Cape-Verdean preeminence combined with serious economic
difficulties led eventually to General Vieira's military coup in November 1980
and the consequent change in government. In November 1981, General Vieira was
elected Secretary General of the PAIGC, now formed only by Guineans. (Cape
Verde withdrew from the PAIGC in January 1981.) Political stability has been



restored as well as diplomatic relations with Cape Verde. General elections
for the national assembly are scheduled for 1983.
5.       Guinea-Bissau's economic situation has been difficult.  At indepen-
dence in 1974, part of the limited economic infrastructure had been destroyed.
The country's administrative capacity was reduced with the exodus of the
Portuguese, and it had to count on international assistance for most essential
supplies. To rehabilitate and develop the economy, the government relied on
the growth of the public and parastatal sector, but lack of administrative
experience and unwise investment policies led the country into serious defi-
cits and external indebtedness. Today, Guinea-Bissau is still among the poor-
est countries in the world. GDP per capita is around $200 (1980), life ex-
pectancy at birth is 42 years, and three-fourths of the population is illi-
terate. Safe water is available to only one-tenth of its people, and in rural
areas 80% of the population face even scarcer supply. Waterborne diseases are
rampant and mortality rates reach 20 percent among children.
6.       In spite of this grim situation, the country has considerable poten-
tial for development in the longer term. With good quality soils and large
uncultivated areas, agricultural output could adequately meet domestic demand
for foodstuffs and raise export earnings. There are promising indications
that commercial development of petroleum, bauxite and phosphates will be pos-
sible. A small manufacturing sector could evolve based on traditional skills
and local raw materials. Identified resources in fisheries (200 km of conti-
nental plateau) and forestry (60% of national territory) could generate sub-
stantial foreign exchange in the medium term and provide the basis for such a
small manufacturing sector.
Structure of the Economy
7.       Agriculture is the most important resource of Guinea-Bissau.  It
accounts for 40% of GDP, most of the country's employment, and 60% of goods
exports. The sector is basically subsistence-oriented, producing rice (the
main staple), sorghum and millet; agricultural exports are mainly groundnuts
and palm kernels. Performance has been poor; owing to unfavorable weather
conditions, lack of incentives, and inadequate infrastructure, agricultural
value added has actually declined, leading to increased food imports and a
decline in official exports. An overvalued exchange rate (since 1978, the
Guinean peso has been pegged to the SDR, while in the same period the main
trade partners have devalued by around 20-25%) and lack of producer incentives
have contributed to smuggling of export crops and some food crops (e.g. rice)
which are produced in the country and also supplied by external aid. Project
assistance in agriculture has been provided by the European Development Fund,
the Swedish International Development Authority, and the United States Agency
for International Development. Its results, though limited in scope, have been
satisfactory in terms of increased productivity and crop diversification. Lack
of donor coordination and inadequate domestic administrative capacity have
hindered project implementation.
8.       The fisheries sector has shown the most impressive growth since
independence, fish products exports accounting for 30% of total goods exports.



- 3 -
The potential of the sector is still far from being fully developed, and its
contribution to GDP is only about 2%. The development of the sector has been
based on (a) the establishment of joint ventures (with the USSR, Algeria, and
Senegal and France) to handle the capture and marketing of fish products; and
(b) provision, through bilateral agreements, of licenses for fcreign boats to
operate in Guinean territorial waters. Industrial production has averaged
around 4,000 tons per year (supplemented by about the same amount from arti-
sanal fishing), compared to an estimated potential of 300,000 tons per year.
Catches of foreign boats are, however, substantial, reaching 80,000 tons in
1980. The government is taking steps to resolve some problems encountered by
the joint ventures and to improve artisanal output by providing fishermen with
improved equipment and adequate marketing support.
9.       With 65% of its territory covered by forests Guinea-Bissau has a good
potential for forestry development. However, out of an estimated potential
output of 120,000 tons of timber per year, only 8,500 tons are now produced
(2,500 tons for export). The sector is managed by a state-owned company which
is receiving SIDA assistance to improve its management and diversify its acti-
vities.
10.      The industrial sector is still undeveloped (10% of GDP), comprising
some old plants for hulling rice and groundnuts, a few bakeries, some ice-
making units, and several repair shops for transportation equipment. Modern
plants include a large brewery, an assembly plant for Citroen cars, and
several units which were created during 1975-79. Some of these never came on
stream (such as a US$18 million complex for groundnut processing), since the
government, recognizing their lack of economic viability, decided to close
them. The industrial sector was the most affected by the lack of planning and
project evaluation capability in the years immediately after independence. At
present, most industrial units work at 30% capacity, hampered by insufficient
imported raw materials and spare parts, and lack of adequate management and
trained workers. Although there is potential for establishing a small indus-
trial sector with linkages to agriculture, fishing, cattle and wood products,
and one using traditional skills (in ceramics, cloth, and metal-forging), many
projects went ahead only because financing was available. In general, these
projects were capital intensive and required labor skills not available in the
country. Some of them have continued in operation only at the cost of high
protection (e.g. a foam mattress plant, operating at less than 10% capacity),
bank credit and public subsidization. Of some 30 public and mixed enterprises
only one showed a profit in 1981.
11.      The lack of basic infrastructure is a major constraint to development
in Guinea-Bissau.  The North is served by roads in need of repair and rehabi-
litation, a situation which is being remedied by an on-going IDA-assisted pro-
jeact. The South, the rice growing region, is badly served. Inland ports and
feeder roads are equally poor.  The port of Bissau, which handles most of the
country's foreign trade, is constantly threatened by shoals and siltation.
Recent Developments
12.      Economic growth in Guinea-Bissau has been disappointing.  After a
modest growth of around 3.0% p.a. during 1975-79, real GDP appears to have



- 4 -
declined by about 5% in 1980. Firm estimates are difficult to make because of
poor statistical information. Agricultural production was affected by rain-
fall shortages, and industrial output declined owing to the lack of imported
supplies (raw materials, intermediate goods, fuels, spare parts), constrained
by shortages of foreign exchange. This trend continued in 1981.
13.      The current difficult situation of Guinea-Bissau stems from policies
followed after independence. Substantial international assistance and inade-
quate aid management led to a mushrooming of projects, many of them ill-
conceived, and dispersion and overlapping of efforts. Investment financed from
abroad was high (20-25% of GDP), but until 1980 most of it was allocated to
infrastructure and the social sectors. The rural sector lacked investment and
production incentives. Consequently, agricultural output was sluggish, with
foodstuffs unable to meet domestic demand, and exports insufficient to gener-
ate foreign exchange to satisfy the demand for imported consumer goods and
provide inputs to the modern sector. Farmers, already hurt by the overvalued
currency and export taxes, lacked incentives to increase output. Capital
flows, although large, covered only part of the current account deficit, so
that foreign reserves declined drastically and net foreign assets have been
negative since 1978. Meanwhile, the role of the public sector grew well
beyond domestic financial capacity, with the result that bank credit financed
around 50% of budget current outlays.
14.      The new Government (in office since 1981) is committed to remedying
the major economic desequilibria while renewing emphasis on agricultural
development. Its announced intentions are promising (and some have begun to
materialize): to curb the public financial deficits, adjust the official
Guinean peso exchange rate, reorganize the state trading sector, give greater
prominence to private enterprise in the distribution sector, revise the struc-
ture of farmgate prices, and strengthen project selection criteria.
15.      Preliminary data for 1981 indicate that some steps have been taken in
the direction outlined above. Public investment was halved, as the government
decided to end certain non-economic projects, and slow down the investment
program to a pace more compatible with the nation's absorptive capacity. For
the first time since 1975, agricultural projects had the highest share in the
public investment program. The current budget posture improved slightly:
growth in current expenses declined from the past trend of 35% per year, and
revenues which had been stationary between 1979 and 1980, increased by 20%
owing to higher taxes on consumer goods. The current budget deficit was still
at a high 15% of GDP. Bank credit continued to finance this and part of the
investment outlays. Growth in money supply decelerated from 70 % in 1980 to
13% in 1981. Inflation, around 50% in 1980, is now declining.
16.      Guinea-Bissau's external payments position remains difficult. Between
1977 and 1980, imports of goods and services (mainly capital goods and food-
stuffs) grew three times faster than exports, leading to a resource balance
equal to 30% of GDP. And in spite of substantial capital inflows and foreign
grants (averaging $28 million and $31 million respectively) the overall defi-
cit reached $8 million in 1980. In 1981 the situation improved, for imports
were kept constant and exports of palm and fish products increased by 20%.
Net inflows of medium and long-term capital continued to grow. partly to cover



the growing debt service which reached $10.1 million in 1981, or about 70% of
exports. At end-1981, external debt was at $102 million ($169 million includ-
ing undisbursed); payment difficulties had increased and arrears on medium and
long-term loans were estimated at $18.4 million ($41 million including arrears
on short-term loans and suppliers credits). Help from the IMF was provided in
1981 (an SDR 1.9 million compensatory financing facility), and from Portugal
in 1982 under bilateral assistance.
17.      Guinea-Bissau's government has shown an encouraging recognition of
past mistakes in economic policies, and a convincing commitment to rehabili-
tate the nation's economy, but the legacy of a heavy investment program, large
borrowings on unsuitable terms, and other unwise policies is now being felt.
In order to improve the difficult external payments situation, an IMF mission
will visit the country in March 1983, to help the country prepare a sound
program of financial rehabilitation. The government has also requested the
UNDP to organize a donors conference in 1983, and the public investment pro-
gram is being reviewed.
18.      The recovery will be difficult in spite of the Government's commit-
ment. Continued import restrictions will affect the availability of consumer
goods, so that farmer incentives will be further impaired; a consistent policy
to expand exports is now urgently required. The necessary devaluation will
require political courage. To support the efforts of this young nation to
place its economy on a sound footing, heavy inflows of external assistance are
now required. In view of the country's extremely limited fiscal capacity, and
its high debt service burden, external project financing will need to cover a
large share of project costs and non-project financing would be desirable.
External capital assistance will have to be provided on very soft terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA-BISSAU
19.      IDA's first operation in Guinea-Bissau was a US$9.0 million credit
(Cr. No. 878-GUB of February 9, 1979) to finance a roads project which pro-
vides for the rehabilitation and maintenance of 226 km of asphalt roads and
338 km of gravel roads, the purchase of equipment, materials and spare parts,
and technical assistance and training. This credit was supplemented in January
1980 by an EEC Special Action Credit of US$1.0 million which was applied pri-
marily to finance the project's local costs. IDA's second operation in Guinea-
Bissau was a US$6.8 million credit (Cr. No. 1095-GUB of January 13, 1981) to
finance exploration promotion in the petroleum sector, which, together with
the proposed project, support the Government's objectives for the energy
sector.
20.      Future IDA operations in Guinea-Bissau in the medium term will
continue to be responsive to the Government's request for assistance in the
rehabilitation of its infrastructure, while identification and preparation
work is being carried out to assist rural development. An IDA credit to
finance port rehabilitation is expected to be negotiated in early 1983. A
review planned for 1983 of development needs in agriculture and education may
open the way for direct participation of IDA in these sectors, to supplement
bilateral aid programs. Future discussions with Government will focus on a



-6-
possible collaboration bo strengthen the key economic ministries, and to
revitalize some of the country's troubled public enterprises.
21e      The number of IDA operations relative to that of other official
development agencies is modest, due to the high level of existing aid flows.
At mid-1982, IDA commitments accounted for about 9% of total external debt
outstanding, including undisbursed.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resource Base, Production and Demand
22.      Guinea-Bissau's energy resource base is potentially significant, yet
underdeveloped. About 65% of the national territory is covered with forests,
the principal energy resource, which contain about 55 million m3 of wood re-
serves. However, slash-and-burn agriculture and wasteful exploitation have
seriously depleted forest reserves, especially near population centers.
Organic residues, e.g. rice and groundnut residues, bagasse and animal wastes
are a potential energy source but are little used at present. Along the
Corubal and Jeba rivers there is some untapped hydro potential which is cur-
rently being evaluated by a UNDP-financed study. Other sources of energy
include solar energy in the northeast and aeolian energy in the Bijagos
archipelago. Exploration to date also indicates the likelihood that the
country has petroleum offshore.
23.      Because of the early stage of economic development and relatively
little urbanization, energy demand is low compared to other West African
countries. Overall energy demand in 1981 was yust over 0.1 million tons of
oil equivalent (Toe), about 130 kg per capita ''At present, 80% of the
demand is met by traditional energy (fuelwood and charcoal), 19% by petroleum
products and 1% by vegetable residues. About 3% of final energy consumption
comes from electricity. Total power consumption in 1981 was some 30 GWh (40
kWh per capita), 60% of which is accounted for by the capital city. Power
generating capacity amounts to about 25 MW and is entirely diesel-based in
small, old and isolated units. Difficulties in fuel supplies and frequent
breakdowns in power generation and distribution render the service unreli-
able.
Government Institutions
24.      A number of Government agencies are involved in the energy sector.
The Ministry of Natural Resources (MRN) is responsible for the evaluation and
development of the hydro-power, water, hydrocarbon and forestry potential.
The National Corporation for Petroleum and Mineral Exploration (PETROMINAS), a
state entity under the aegis of MRN, is specifically in charge of petroleum
1/ As compared with 360 kg per capita in Ghana, 244 kg per capita
in The Gambia, and 273 kg per capita in Senegal.



7-
and mineral exploration and development.  The Ministry of Energy and Industry
supervises the National Institute of Energy (INE), which is responsible for
much of the electricity generation and distribution in the country and for the
development of renewable energy. The Ministry also supervises the Sociedade
Distributora de Combustiveis e Lubrificantes (DICOL) and Guinegis which are
responsible for the distribution of petroleum products. The Government has
recently decided, however, to dissolve INE, whose functions are to be absorbed
by an autonomous power and water utility and a Directorate of Energy (respon-
sible for renewable energy), both under the Ministry of Energy and Industry.
Fuel and electricity pricing is determined by the Council of Ministers.  Owing
to the lack of trained manpower, administration of the energy sector remains
weak. However, technical assistance now being provided for hydrocarbon explo-
*         ration (IDA), electricity (UNDP), and forestry (SIDA) should bring about a
strengthening of subsector institutions.
Sector Objectives and Issues
25.      The Government's sectoral objective is to develop economically viable
indigenous energy resources in order substantially to reduce petroleum imports
and to enhance the efficiency of energy use. This objective is reflected in
the energy investment, which amounted to $16 million in the period 1978-82 and
included promotion of petroleum exploration financed by IDA (Credit 1095-GUB),
the expansion of power generation and distribution facilities as well as rural
electrification financed by AfDB and various bilateral aid agencies, the in-
vestigation of sites for small hydroelectric schemes financed by France, and a
study financed by UNDP of the hydrological potential on the Corubal River. To
date, project selection has been determined more by availability of foreign
financing, rather than on the basis of evaluating least-cost options for meet-
ing future energy requirements. The Government plans substantial increases in
energy-related investment, within the framework of its forthcoming 1983-86
Development Plan, which would provide a more rational setting for sector
investment. The Government has also requested that an energy assessment be
carried out under the joint Bank/UNDP program. Based on already ongoing or
planned projects in advanced stages of preparation, energy-related investment
over the Plan period is projected to total approximately US$50 million (1982
prices). Nearly one-half (US$23 million) would be allocated to petroleum
exploration (including investments under the proposed project but not includ-
ing any exploration expenditures by foreign oil companies). Investments allo-
cated to the electric power sector amount to $17 million and would finance the
extension of thermal generation in the capital city, electric power distri-
bution facilities and rural electrification. About US$7 million are expected
to be spent on renewable energy. A forestry management, training, and replant-
ing project located in the northwestern part of the country is being financed
by SIDA, USAID, and Canada. EEC is financing a country-wide forestry survey.
Installation and testing of biogas digestors arb being financed by the
4         Netherlands.
26.      Until 1978, petroleum product retail prices generally moved in line
with CIF import costs and domestic inflation. Increases in subsequent years,
however, were insufficient to match the large increases in the cost of imports
which took place during 1979/80. This notwithstanding, retail prices of petro-
leum products at present are above the CIF import cost plus delivery costs,
with the important exception of gas oil used in power generation. The struc-
ture of petroleum product prices is shown below:



-8-
TABLE 1
PETROLEUM PRODUCT PRICE STRUCTURE - 1982
(US$/gal. equivalent)
Gas Oil
Gasoline      Jet              General    Power
Regular  Premium  Fuel  Kerosene  Public   Generation  Butane
CIF Import Cost    1.37    1.56    1.29    1.29        1.25       1.25      0.85
Customs Duties      1.02    1.08    0.22    0.58       0.15       --        0.13
Operating Cost      0.33    0.21    0.07    0.07       0.18      0.18      )
)0.81
Distributor         0.12    0.18    0.04   (0.24)   (0.16)    (0.39)    )
Margin (Loss)
Consumer Price      2.84    3.03    1.62    1.70        1.42       1.04     1.79
27.      Subsidization of gas oil used for electricity generation has been the
consequence of electricity tariffs which have remained frozen since 1974, ex-
cept for a small (15%) increase in 1980. In contrast, prices for fuelwood and
charcoal, which are not controlled, increased at more than 50% annually during
1980-82, and may have stimulated a shift towards consumption of kerosene and
butane. Inadequate prices have also weakened the financial position of public
enterprises in the sector, which was further aggravated by managerial weak-
nesses and non-payment by Government agencies for services provided. DICOL
sustained losses amounting to US$1.5 million equivalent in 1981. Subsidies
from the Treasury for the electricity systems were another US$1.5 million
equivalent in 1981. In addition, foreign grants had to be used to finance
imports of fuel and spare parts.
28.      The Government has decided to increase petroleum product prices in
1983 by at least 20% on average, and is considering even higher electricity
tariff increases. These measures would be a step in the right direction but an
appropriate energy pricing policy for the medium term still has to be devised.
With this in mind the proposed project would include a study on options and
steps to be taken to establish an adequate petroleum product pricing system;
this study would complement an electric power tariff study being financed by
UNDP and expected to be completed in 1983. The Government will prepare a plan
of action and schedule of implementation on petroleum product pricing by June
30, 1984 based on the study and agree with IDA on measures to achieve these
objectives. (Section 3.05 of draft Development Credit Agreement).



-9-
The Petroleum Subsector
29.      In the absence of domestic production and refining, Guinea-Bissau
depends on imports for all of its petroleum products needs. These imports
originate in Senegal, Portugal, the USSR and, more recently, France, financed
through bilateral assistance.
30.      Guinea-Bissau's petroleum requirements are low, totalling about
20,000 metric tons in 1982. This small volume notwithstanding, petroleum
imports are of critical importance as they meet almost all the energy require-
ments of the modern sector of the economy. Power generation accounts for an
estimated 45% of petroleum product consumption, transport for 36%, Government
administration for about 10%, and commercial and residential use for the
remainder. Diesel is the most important product, accounting for 64% of 1981
petroleum product consumption, followed by gasoline (19%), aviation fuels
(10%), kerosene (3.5%) and butane (3.5%). Consumption declined sharply in
1974/75 with the departure of the Portuguese armed forces following indepen-
dence. It increased by 4.6% a year during 1976-79, and by nearly 20% p.a. in
1979-80 because of fast growth in diesel demand for power generation. A sharp
reversal occurred in 1981 when consumption fell by nearly 25% as foreign ex-
change scarcities forced the Government to restrict imports and impose
gasoline rationing.
31.      Despite their small size, petroleum imports have become a growing
burden on the balance of payments. They fluctuated around US$3 million per
annum during 1973-78, when import price increases were compensated by volume
reductions. Large-scale volume and price increases in subsequent years raised
petroleum import costs which peaked at approximately US$10 million in 1980.
Petroleum imports for 1982 are estimated to be not much lower and represent
about 60% of merchandise export earnings projected for that year. Although
supply restrictions have suppressed demand in recent years, envisaged Govern-
ment investments in electricity, agro-industries and manufacturing, if imple-
mented, could result in a growth in petroleum product demand of around 7% p.a.
throughout the 1980s. As a minimum, however, and in line with GDP growth
projections for Guinea-Bissau, petroleum product demand during this period is
expected to grow at around 4% p.a. Based on these assumptions and on IDA's
forecast of international petroleum prices, petroleum product imports would
amount to US$11-12 million in 1985 and US$17.5-22 million in 1990 (current
prices).
Past Exploration
32.      The sedimentary area of Guinea-Bissau includes 35,000 km2 onshore,
42,000 km2 in the shelf area (in water depths up to 200 m) and additional
acreage in the deep water area (water depth of more than 200 m). Based on
geological conditions and results from previous exploration, the petroleum
potential is rated as fair to good, particularly offshore. Petroleum
exploration started in 1958 when Esso (US) obtained an onshore concession from
Portugal, carried out geophysical surveys and drilled four wells onshore,
which were dry. After 1966, it concentrated its efforts on the offshore where
it recorded about 14,000 km of seismic data and drilled five wells, all of
which had shows of oil and gas. Esso's permits expired in 1976. In addition



- 10 -
to Esso's work, a 2,400 km seismic, magnetic and gravity survey in the
southern waters was conducted in 1975 for the Seagap Consortium and in 1977 a
program of 600 km was carried out by the French Petroleum Institute.
The First Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1095-GUB)
33.      The objective of the first exploration promotion project approved on
January 13, 1981 was to promote the resumption of offshore hydrocarbon explo-
ration in the country under conditions that, reflecting prevailing worldwide
contractual terms, would ensure maximum work commitment and early commencement
of drilling, and would be equitable from the point of view of both the Govern-
ment and the companies. The project included: (i) acquisition, processing and
evaluation of 2,000 line km of new seismic data offshore between the 20 and
200 m water depth; (ii) reprocessing, reinterpretation and integration of ex-
isting geophysical data; (iii) revision of the legal framework in the country
for petroleum exploration and production; (iv) assistance in promoting explo-
ration in the country; and (v) strengthening of PETROMINAS, the Government
agency responsible for the petroleum sector, through training, establishment
of an accounting system, and provision of equipment and physical facilities.
34.      Progress under the project has been satisfactory:  85% of the credit
has been committed and 75% disbursed. Completion is scheduled for June 30,
1984, as estimated at appraisal. Progress of the main components is discussed
below:
(a) Exploration Promotion Component
35.      The contract for acquisition and processing of the new seismic data
was awarded to Digicon (USA) after international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with IDA guidelines; a contract for the evaluation of this data, as well
as of existing data, was awarded to Atlantic Resources Ltd. (ARL) (Portugal).
Digicon subsequently proposed to complement the work paid for by the Govern-
ment by carrying out a survey of similar proportions (in the same 20 m to 200
m depth area), provided the data paid for by the Government and that financed
by Digicon would be sold as one package with Government and Digicon sharing
the revenues. The Government accepted the proposal because additional useful
data would be generated without burdening the Government's budget or external
debt situation.
36.      The seismic survey and the technical studies under the project were
completed in November 1981. Six offshore blocks totalling 13,700 sq. km. were
defined for bidding by interested oil companies. The main condition for sub-
mission of bids is the purchase of geological and geophysical information on
Guinea-Bissau's petroleum potential priced at US$400,000. In November 1981, a
promotional seminar was held for representatives of the oil industry where
these geological and geophysical data were presented. A total of thirty-five
oil companies sent some seventy representatives to the seminar, which resulted
in the sale of ten data packages. Other companies have also shown interest in
purchasing the data but are waiting until the legal and fiscal framework is in
place.



- 11 -
37.      A number of problems developed in completing the legal and fiscal
work but have now been resolved. A hydrocarbon law has been prepared and
approved to replace an obsolete Portuguese concession law dating back to the
1920s. The hydrocarbon law, a model contract for petroleum operations, and
draft petroleum tax regulations were presented to the industry in mid-
December, 1982. Early reactions from the industry have been favorable. The
legal/contractual framework provides for participation by PETROMINAS, voting
procedures which protect the interests of private parties and PETROMINAS, a
royalty scale on production increasing from 12.5% to 20% maximum, a 50% income
tax and a negotiable scale of additional payments to the Government depending
on experienced profitability. The Government has set a deadline of March 1983
for the submission of bids by oil companies for exploration contracts in the
areas included in the first project.  Assuming successful bidding and nego-
tiations with the oil industry, actual exploration can be expected to begin in
late 1983.
(b) Institution-Building
38.      During the first 18 months of implementation of the first project,
much of the effort of PETROMINAS was directed towards getting the technical
and legal work off the ground. Attention has now been turned to recruitment
of qualified staff, training, establishment of an accounting system. With
funds provided under the first project, PETROMINAS is constructing a new
building which would be available by the time the oil companies begin explor-
ing actively.
39.      A detailed plan for the staffing of PETROMINAS and training Guineans
has been prepared and agreed upon by the Ministry of Natural Resources,
PETROMINAS and IDA in the context of the first project (see Annex VI).
PETROMINAS will have an exploration and an administrative division, explor-
ation consultants and auditing advisers who would be reporting to the Director
General. A negotiations manager, legal advisers and external auditors of
PETROMINAS, however, would report directly to the Minister.
40.      PETROMINAS has selected a qualified expatriate geologist to head the
exploration division. It has also hired a negotiations manager and has decided
to engage Shearman and Sterling (USA) as legal consultants. Although
PETROMINAS will have to continue drawing on the experience of outside con-
sultants as well as staff from other Ministries and Government agencies, its
staff will be strengthened progressively as Guineans in universities abroad
complete their studies and return. The Government has agreed to inform IDA
annually on the staffing of PETROMINAS and on planned measures for the gradual
replacement of expatriate experts by competent local staff (Section 3.04(b)(v)
of draft Development Credit Agreement). PETROMINAS' staff would increase from
its current two professionals to about 12 to 15 professionals over the next
two years. Discussions are underway with PETROBRAS of Brazil for assistance
in training this staff.



- 12 -
Government Approach to Hydrocarbon Exploration and Project Origin
41.      The Government intends to pursue its policy of attracting private
companies to undertake exploration by opening up additional acreage. The most
attractive area would be the offshore shallow water in depths of less than
20 m. The area covers about 30,000 km2 and extends from the eastern limit of
the blocks presently offered for bidding and covered by the survey under the
first project and coast line (see Map IBRD 16817). About 15 years ago, Exxon
acquired some data in this region which suggest general attractive structural
and stratigraphic leads. However this data is neither coherent nor reliable
and there is a need for additional seismic data to understand the geological
potential of the basin and to promote exploration there. Since shallow water
seismic surveys are about five times more expensive than conventional offshore
surveys, this area was deliberately left out of the first project because the
Government wished to promote exploration with the minimum amount of investment
in the initial stages. The petroleum potential of the shallow water area is
discussed in more detail in Annex IV.
42.      The Government's exploration consultants have recommended that in
order to promote the shallow water area, a reconnaissance survey be made of
4,000 line km with an average grid of 20 x 25 km, including lines between the
numerous islands, reaching as far up the river estuaries as possible. The
survey would also link the data available onshore with that available in the
deeper offshore and provide the Government with an overall picture of the
country's petroleum possibilities and prospects. Because of the nature of the
prospects expected (deep and partly stratigraphic), the most advanced tech-
nology will be used to gather seismic data in the area. Navigation in the
very shallow waters poses difficult problems and a specially designed boat is
necessary.
43.      Digicon, aware of the potential of this shallow water area (depths of
less than 20 m) and having a technology which is the most advanced in the
industry (Annex V), has offered in a letter of intent to finance a 2,000 km
seismic survey provided the Government obtained financing for the remaining
2,000 km. In view of the high cost of shallow water seismic surveys, Digicon
does not have the resources to fully finance the recommended 4,000 km. Nor
would Guinea-Bissau be able to interest other geophysical firms to join in the
survey, since joint ventures are not common for such services. Hence, the
Government has turned to the Association for assistance in financing not only
the other 2,000 line km of seismc survey but also the interpretation and
evaluation of all new data gathered, integration with existing information,
and promotion and negotiation of contracts for this additional acreage (para.
51). Digicon started work in October 1982 and expects to complete the first
half of the survey within six months.
IDA's Role
44.      The Government's approach to oil exploration as outlined above, is
sound. In considering the Digicon proposal, the Government is letting the
private sector play a role in promoting exploration in the country. However,
the Government intends to continue taking the lead in such promotion. IDA's
support would provide PETROMINAS with the means necessary to broaden its



- 13 -
knowledge of the country's hydrocarbon potential, to promote this potential,
and negotiate exploration contracts with foreign companies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.      The proposed project was identified during supervision of the first
project and appraisal was completed in September 1982. Credit negotiations
were held in Bissau on January 12-13, 1983. The Guinean delegation was headed
by the Minister of Natural Resources. A credit and project summary appears at
the beginning of this Report. No Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Project Objectives
46.      The proposed project would be the logical continuation of the first
one and would be aimed at promoting hydrocarbon exploration in the country and
at continuing institutional support to PETROMINAS.
Project Description
47.      The proposed project would consist of:
(a)   Geophysical work:  Some 4,000 km of new seismic data would be
collected in Guinea-Bissau's shallow offshore area in water
depths of less than 20 m and processed;
(b)   Exploration work:  Exploration consultants would be retained
(60 man-months) to:
(i)    assist PETROMINAS in supervising the seismic survey;
(ii)   conduct special processing of the data collected given
the nature of prospects (stratigraphic and interval
velocity studies);
(iii)  evaluate the new geophysical data generated and
integrate it with existing data;
(iv)   prepare a report on the petroleum potential of the
shallow water area surveyed and the country in general;
(v)    promote the area to attract interest of oil companies;
(vi)   assist in the negotiation of exploration/production
contracts; and
(vii)  assist PETROMINAS in monitoring the activities of
operating companies.



- 14 -
(c)   Legal and economic work:  consultants would be retained (7 man-
months) to assist with the economic, financial, and legal
aspects of negotiations with oil companies;
(d)   Pricing study:  Consultants would be retained (5-6 man-months)
to collect data and prepare a petroleum product pricing study
that would serve as a basis for establishing a more rational
pricing structure and more efficient use of petroleum products.
(e)   Institutional Support:
(i)    The project would provide for a resident director of
exploration to spend two years with PETROMINAS. It would
also provide for the part-time assistance of a geo-
logist, a geophysicist, an oil engineer, a petroleum
economist and an expert in the field of cataloging and
filing geological and geophysical data.
(ii)   Procurement and installation of equipment and fur-
nishings for about 16 offices and a documentation
center.
(f)   Training:  One oil engineer, one petroleum economist and a
documentalist would be trained. Short term courses would also
be provided in areas of finance and administration.
Cost Estimates and Financing
48.      The total cost of the project, net of duties and taxes, from which
the project would be exempt, is estimated at US$23.3 million. The cost of
consulting services has been estimated at about US$16,000 per man-month
including travel, subsistence, overhead and the cost of producing the promo-
tional report. This amount is reasonable taking into account the high level
of expertise required and fees prevailing in the petroleum industry. The price
of the seismic survey of US$5,000/km has been provided by Digicon (para 49).
The cost of data processing and evaluation has been estimated on the basis of
comparable work in other West African countries and the experience on the
first project.  No price or physical contingencies were applied to the seismic
survey as the price quoted by the contractor for the survey is a firm one.
Physical contingencies of 10% and price contingencies of 8% in 1983, 7.5% in
1984, and 7% in 1985 were applied to other project components.  Total contin-
gencies amount to about 4% of base-line costs. Estimated costs by project
components are given in the project summary. The proposed IDA Credit of
US$13.1 million would finance about 57% of the foreign exchange costs of the
project, including 50% of the cost of the seismic survey ($10 million) and the
foreign exchange cost of consultants and office equipment. Digicon would
finance half of the cost of the seismic survey (US$10 million). Local costs
(US$200,000) would be financed by the Government. The credit funds would be
passed on by the Government to PETROMINAS as a grant.



- 15 -
Procurement and Disbursement
49.      The contract for the seismic survey financed by IDA would be signed
with Digicon after direct negotiations. This procedure is a departure from
international competitive bidding, but is acceptable because of the technolo-
gical superiority of Digicon systems (Annex V). The cost of the survey to the
Government would be within 3% of the cost obtained by international competi-
tive bidding on other Bank-financed projects. The better results expected from
the Digicon equipment would justify the additional cost. Furthermore, this
procedure would allow the Government to obtain uniformity in data and enable
it to promote and market the additional acreage and data with the assistance
of only one firm. The office equipment and furnishings to be purchased under
the project would be procured on the basis of the best quotations received
from at least three potential suppliers. Disbursements would be made against
100% of foreign expenditures for the second half of the seismic survey, the
consulting services, the equipment and furnishings, and training. The proceeds
of the Credit are expected to be fully disbursed three years after Credit
effectiveness.
Project Implementation
50.      PETROMINAS, under the supervision of MRN, would be responsible for
implementing the project with the assistance of resident experts financed
under the project.  PETROMINAS expects to continue to retain the services of
ARL as exploration consultants for the duration of the project. ARL has per-
formed satisfactorily under the first project. PETROMINAS is also expected to
continue with the services of a negotiations manager and of the legal firm of
Shearman and Sterling. The geophysical survey would be carried out by Digicon
under the supervision of PETROMINAS and its exploration consultants. All con-
sultants would be acceptable to PETROMINAS and the Association, and employed
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and PETROMINAS, in
accordance with Bank guidelines (Section 3.02 of draft Development Credit
Agreement). The resident experts would be required to train counterpart staff
on-the-job.
51.      Digicon and PETROMINAS would market the seismic data collected under
the project for a price yet to be determined. Revenues from the sale of the
first 10 seismic data packages would be split 55/45 between Government and
Digicon and 60/40 on the next 10 sales. After the first 20 sales, all the
revenues would go to the Government. This proposal is reasonable and in line
with industry practice. The contract between Digicon and the Government would
be acceptable to the Association and the Government share of the proceeds of
any sales would be kept in a special account and used only for investments in
the petroleum sector. (Section 4.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
The project is expected to be completed by Decenber 31, 1985.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
52.      Under the first exploration promotion project, PETROMINAS has kept
separate project accounts. It has decided to engage Arthur Young & Company to
audit its accounts including the separate project accounts, and the first
audit report (covering 1981) is expected by mid-1983 . Subsequent audit



- 16 -
reports by external auditors acceptable to the Association would be submitted
to the Association no later than six months after the close of the fiscal
year. PETROMINAS would also submit quarterly and annual reports on the
implementation of the project in a form acceptable to the Association.
(Section 3.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement). It would also submit a
project completion report not later than six months after the Closing Date of
the Credit. (Section 4.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
53.      Promotional efforts and investments made under the project are ex-
pected to attract foreign capital for undertaking intensive hydrocarbon explo-
ration offshore. Any ensuing petroleum discovery would have a positive impact
on the country's economy. The risk associated with the project is that the
areas offered for bidding may not prove attractive enough to foreign com-
panies. However, given the geological conditions and the interest shown by
the companies under the first project, the advantages of proceeding with the
project outweigh this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Guinea-Bissau and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
55.      Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
referred to in the text and in Section III of Annex III to this report.
56.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 24, 1983



- 17 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
GUINEA-BISSAU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA-BISSAU                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEE8ff
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                     - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              36.1                                      HOST RECENT          LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOE
AGRICULTURAL       15.7                  1960  /b   1970*/b  ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GN? PER CAPITA (USS)                         ..           ..     160.0                 250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           17.0          ..       51.2                  66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        520.0          ..      784.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    13.6            ..       23.8                  17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             1.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                               2.9
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            14.4          ..       21.3                  27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          33.8          ..       49.2                  86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             36.9           ..       39.7                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                             59.4           ..       56.2                  52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.7           ..        4.1                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   0.2          ..         ..                   2.7                     2.8
URBAN                                  3.2           ..         ..                   6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          40.5        40.8       39.6                  47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          31.6        26.3       22.3                  19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.4         2.6        2.6                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             121.0        103.0       83.0                  88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       60.0           ..       73.0/c                90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              29.0                    35.0/c                53.1                    54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            7.0           ..        8.2iC                18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         43.7         37.9       32.3                  26.7                    23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         32.0        37.5       42.0                  45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               187.8       168.1      148.5                 129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..       11.0                  23.9
URBAN                                    ..          ..       20.0                  54.9
RURAL                                    ..          .,        8.0                  18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          ..         ..                  25.8
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..                  63.1
RURAL                                    ..          ..         ..                  20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                   ..           ..   10000.0               32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              ..          ..    2298.5                 3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                    ..          ..      615.5                1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..                 249.5                   430.8
RURAL                                    ..          ..         ..                1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..      20.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..           ..        6.3
URBAN                                   ..           ..        5.7
RURAL                                   ..           ..        6.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
UkBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..          ..        5.0
URBAN                                    ..          ..        5.O
RURAL                                   ..           ..



- 18 -
ANNEX I
Yage 2
TABLE 3A
GUINEA-BISSAU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA-BISSAU                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE .AGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970*/b  ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 25.0         44.0      96.0                  63.2                    83.3
MALE                  35.0        61.0      133.0                  72.7                    96.1
FEMALE                15.0        27.0       60.0                  50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0          9.0       8.0                  10.2                    15.3
MALE                   3.0        11.0       13.0                  13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 2.0         6.0        3.0                   6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 53.3           13.2      9.2                   7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.2         45.0      32.9/c                47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          12.7         18.1      11.67;e               26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         4.9/d        7.0      28.4                  34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                   3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.5           ..      26.0                  34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   1.4           ..       7.8                   2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1            ..        ..                   1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       169.6           ..     231.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    3.2           ..       3.8                  34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              91.0           ..      83.0                  78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0           ..       6.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.6           .       29.5                  41.4                    37.0
MALE                                 63.5           ..      57.4                  53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                                2.1           ..       2.2                  29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2           *        1.5                    1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN-.                                            .        .                   39.3                      .
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  69.0
Not available     *  Data for 1970 may not reflect conditions in the entire country due to the divided
Not applicable.       political jurisdictions caused by the 1963-74 armed conflict.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962; /e 1975.
May, 1982



- 19-                                                                                                      ANNEX I
-*.Is.aeto  t  d.otda sedg. of Mptt,a,  tAUt. toes.. eat atsr.ctoon  ce -aJ.,i ALLI-I...tnnn  oetttet
The -ece-c  eo"`s "rI (1) mba -bb raest            .p coh  njAct  c-_e asS 12) I an-atry ses .4th  --bbt  hMotes  -ettOS  i.can   han the  --utr  tAg
of te etjes coete  f-cep  tar    v'ism          oilo 0 II ..e...r. pcw     I. t       tes.   SrUe'  Atrc. end fetl.I..teen  is chea.-te.e  aOf
1nWie  tte sutrios itta ee.-  he. ise  tee tin, touhuota    Lien.. thn  0- cate. a   e.-nIaO  s    theI isttt4        sdaot  n  hensiai ioS               _tt
Ttrea  - !stsi .Eanet  ae  tsise tat sn  en  inis-4 Iese.; 1009)  tIt.,                                             U"o.adoer  ite  by o -ee cspette  eathe  at hoeptn  beds
hasioslesnt - Boite at a.taotteeelarea se IWtee...ntit so ya -nnett              =LnIi.nl  LI pdIlti eA polec-   es_ee  sad eeitedhe                  t
fee crops.  seesreS, ntat.    bitche  Ssr d IOto t.Ie. tals.; 1970 date.                  .....ecete.Uetenaeetittstraeti   tle
Rj.U CP 1, 111- "tW P,  IaWaLeinnsacon  nets"    -tn.51.                                  ditcceo-ne   a1s                en  hepi -e.      ,en . tatto. h..tth
sIetadhncreeeeta   nO            Id 5eS.i  tsc, Sties filffodO hee.); t t .                   .n.CntIatcatn.ta   so lotp etefie  by     hsae Ihot hy
1570, end1 tWO  -da.                                                                            ditei nss-aceat. .nen  naet. h..  bthit   cf., iO-p.teItst___
ction and #-IPd   a llited  men nt s 1te1 Isiliti.n.  Poo stotn-
07  iinht7tt   P"  CA11T5 - tean  -nsWes  of  -oai.teno   (Ia                                    ie  peopos- eco  het6 ttln tttod   -          rt.tpInssettopoa
VT 1I r(    P .. ptroa L_ esiP. adhye-               I..,tot  II  nooheena  .1cc-            sad Oe          Ieetl. lco  50  -soa  hesitat  ad ntiastI sod eatelt
acuit,y) MIt Itncan  of tetes-       Oia  pet cauL19W0  10)0. a-t lOtO                        $nee       pacteLI-4 henettel  ore teLoId se..040otL.
ten hntatl  dtottd by the  .W.1s If heAt.
data.                                                                          Sweat. Ito. of lksoooeeotd lenten, fee   nnholU( - totolow.      tet. etA0i4  .t.
sotoS  Meeietn;(WA  100.andtWiAts,it heathed  tee  sotittis  no....e
.-uieto  1ttctn                                                                            dareDs- lf  U--.  o00ML of.   -ull- OO  OOs-itt   ae,adnrl-eoe              s-
..al    ..ctal. b.Y .ap end -5  IM  ebete  _cattey -55 ieel.lty                     O-en  eItLL., enwatiasy.  CArnlIieo   -eld    eeyee.t*o"cOoOt
it  if   oecac  It Sloth toccsata  ihe  -ettey    .o -apis. tet-                     St-n. to tt.tsoetu, teoe-  at d-tIties ...          ed Ibet sa   -1cti
tenet, ted feeblI LIft eo  tttfy ce"Iulidis  et 17.5 YU,e..  Th. pats-                   W-eeOIdls don1lisa  Otth eleotrAItty to Itoah 9A5tt               reot
nose   too  etlit,y  -et   L.e he,- then lsIde nOtaS4 deat-s isL-oal   ms  sdct. tetlieo -peese
-otlayacadil  toia   tOreat I" sda  Mn, la-tLY pisbis. pfl-o_
tthtse,t  hnssle   n   fth      ee. ti-e Cothtose  of -netyto                EDUCTION
i. cohttei   tstt  t th -            eo,  e  asoth   ntecItte   .-eeolaoec  ei  e  o  is potte-y  .neel                                       - ....teeo cS.e.   ct
oIs. cactee.   %Thi  Ie -thi-ee  saly eate  68t.ttiyeae  d          Wti  to                  ine, eehl-.nnn        .1 Lnp tdche  -se1l  lototn  tItidre  odes h-fl
tins ceptuenit tent of git oat creotetetn onte.  nto. .01   eeor-c.t-      eYte  hts ed(tt.t fee diftereat lettteo  potno  eachi;i
Ot te    eopsc   itntt  Mbbl,ty.  lrt. natacypssato                etsasaotI.e Oticaectantt.e                                     -Lifhttnsi n, es-ed.0ott
Athye?tO  W, eI t  eat  OfdciealmoayOt  to oopplis-.                                             ,,oserecIL I otl otost  ot    f ekaoA -nt-I tetcd
I.a tacoaf  aeeath  ntose     Isesese  etetiseh.oyQ             t  patIots                   eedstnon.ooasi.o  toeheetenst . Aet _ttoe(5   a
attn  itlI as  esoe.                                                                         nct  01 12 to 17yaotttn  coto               4anc   c-tes  non I... -tty
?o-  Ao. (Is.    OhtatOpocias yar a,--e tiltenec             i tscss-on   ci             (tcaiaa eelIe C esid-t of  WVoendeo t - t tins   netcti
i= s   n.,hct.aet en9     CoeaOd *5 thac  foe edttteettaActy se andM                                 rt    fncnayfncaoos
onl, 150  190 m    1T  ott.                                                         ?outt.n.het     ii     ei..so   eseao             - tt    -ttsttcittd It
Ponoctrat Seaiteocaee  foreec) -Chaidro  ft-ta yse(-    nets-s  (10-                pO.-tY adenoisy inen   Mtette  hi omees  iatnee. is toe
eaten  ihiA-  1970. end .100daedatttestrtotc e-taoa eoln(Isiend  s5t.
pto,=stct benc  SI. Itetn.-      -Osat -..          &,-i Bsh este  ci -eti sod-                                    _.aJ.tnse   t ae  .ddtt poaote  d 15 yac... sdco.
toeY-     itts(otLd-dO4, to9ti-70, tat 1sfo-Od.
G-' stto looa    te .  -Aestt  - cobs.-  beece  ats.t  s-oe of sobt  co-              oWCTlt
nicefor 1950-Ac. 1550-70,. ca  1970-90.                                              feT- -a  lIIIe Lerihoac   totit.  -                  Isn.c tee. Zlotete co
(t-te %60th III. ,s- thessea) - Ontal lUv  butts e., abs-tn  of  U-Yi-fe                     isce  -eirt  toes ihes bigth  Pe.,-; -otadt    s.tee  h-ttse  .c
eopst.tttss  19050  1970. Ind 1940 teas.                                                   .1lt, t     .sIctl.
Itis  sftte   s? titc   - -jot tter.-pe  .b..as W i ne-ya                                   MId L.ceII e   (1.c e(ncsotd cfttt(-l   yo   at  eanter  foerel
19tltas  td. t9Ol. 6e1WOte,                                                            est- -seste   tIlcse   hrcots  ypItos   otoe   a
G,on" ftocsciLs  PAte - cAe-P   ..n MIf  Is.t,eanf.etllett                                     tnedoatn    0cncs sl.L               to -.se  dat _entsre-co  c  tsOtc
I.e  __It  etc.,te  peotic if the I     neccera  eanceet-ascta  itt-eetnfis effesti;  t. toe escate y..e. Myc tat he -se -en                                  i.-
IVc Lcceto --   esati, C ice-ye   _  Moose  ..dtt  totOz    19Th, sos Intl.                ne  c---an  sbioatlicat.
F-ntIc PIL.;io  -   Canete.- dAeo1 (Ohoo-sata  A-1Aae  t.           f sitr,                to Oseeo:      nci-   no    ssttat-toco so  too brsecee ...
al   ecs  sn   oBa m   rw                                                                   tattOo. of-tetl  aeo-c  taoets.h.et'  Ml.iese   roe ic-
cati    -,` esad totote,ttoa    _aodian  "...It en.it in Z-ttd..e
taut tM cotOlole                                                                               totetalc  i  t LI per " te Lose.. f-s lte    otS
iO-tts  of east, skit  ecs stilts And Os55. et              (e.'tL coften sod
toe kacads). engs    ,  CsAses  t  nt tonoty  t L. as b It --                       sttot
asiaisecsOcodec-  pots- stSe.t01-h  lO. an  108. daa.-'l T-                             ae PatIIItsaa                    ...sltl .cti..  ceeots - t.dc
.e  e ltsr Ly fItr    -cetos  Iitcattnte   - IseItd Ico                            eon  tata  sa   aetydtttc ei.tcsest.4Iicst.
qosicin -  e1   c so  ctasan   a -tf4-p .-isnas it dMnebctn   4ecs-atriue coat      ao  r..e inteutitI. Woenst.. hs.-on-a
0(07  ea  otat coeidecne nsIIIans    .tLAt e.  hady st dhe. ef                      ldate (weocet)  -   tahr eer I     to I... s ,cecsta. sInecLc..te
Oscanda  I.-l. 100145. 1970 IId 177  aa                                                      1066. 19Mh M5 .980 date.
70  ath s     tes E    etfatns.          t e ...aetc.tn  a   o  cpic               PctatttosOts(ncet  lttt-=..tdtet.yo   tttno      oc
ta   cyyif2 todtOt,    o   seeo  od1  oteAe  hn                       a-aonsrtaecwts-" tc!e                                       - oi. act feIleW eoI   tec
toteenti Mi  1 -d "I~s  W,athsb   t    eoioOratn                                              otaao    1ttt tta ott lene  yctslstita si atl = ,e cM_actols
t..enetoesf0 jan  f  cea  peeao pe ty  et o eee  cI esinat esd.190                      .. 11. ans  Metesn   Thoe `o  hnc  ccld    aia cto eTe
tstse ceoteco. of teach ,to eca    ., "Ytdhentn  orsst.  yen  et-ea--1 IIdetLetl.et-onooer .                      of~T.  Itsrytta.stltetIn t- et.
tte  c  lstinaton  o   0  cn  1  oaltetiaei  1  rn  ite  ntass  eondW                                  tan sot' too  easctne.'dd'm'  
L-1ee  aetat  I.  tnecf   oeheel. 'Id raoaaod by co te tsa Third                        acaechtnes,lta-Itaoit osetattian  adot ti ted 05 ned a
S-t fc  Stco; 19I-t  to i    ots(is'7 dt,t                                                   an  itht f-ti.
ctntIcentntest  t..e  to am, pe   oa,  os-t.1  tooc sad 1500 octa.            tCo   ftZ
o               art.. crhs111   setea  to  \f  -Int-  1560. 1907  sod loS  ote                              of faaoaiat..
lILtLeo   5c   tOOtlneeI- tte   .h    Cytes   lsottao                                       h    sioh   eie          -e -ey M.ptr bsnt. neea            .-t"onactens
Iaan t.o.etctbo.Bt(o  ensf-ses   eaeo   on.sdtaeys                                        tsccteoabetat Psoects .... a        ae  71rtcpta-csaoat
0.f  se Rpe Ih.te  tOte bar-he  IsO  10h sd ..WhO~ tees.-sslcnycnt   oo   te-Liis thettatnithle00h5ntn
Sta  o tot Ato-(AcctcIceaets     ae.ot.  n Larot -oak- o1etotostIwoedNnte det pla   en.ts. u-la   eotaecet  o
he   f  .ee  ton   ehs. n   ott  ot   nts-heacostonl                               ctOOho
-oei-ed as  si t:11             1.:1 Mtaseaaai    nno  thAt ise     to Isctoenn         t'I eel gOttO  ote.bcceCoee  ootes   oce
toes  am(hrt Itn =i eoca bft, eolt= at - tt              yob , On test
a   tooLes (tsad   cr55.  000 coa.      esedh  eoro  Oa- ann 
.1* L1F-- Psooctisas  darided by   to af                                                                               Mycito  .  l9s(
ott  ed ls.a gndttasaee, MAbblsoa  saon. yoattael eae   no
otaih  IL.tLtnrno



- 20 -
GUINEA-BISSAU                                          ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                        Page 4
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1980                      ANNUAL GROWTH RATE (% current prices)
US$ Mill.       %             1978       1979      1980
GDP at Market Prices        175.2       100.0           15.8        9-5       1.2
Gross Domestic Investment  31.2          17.8           27-5       10.2    -17.5
Gross National Saving       -29.9       -17.1          -92.0      +50.0   -180.0
Current Account balance   -69.6         -35.0           58.0       28.8       6.6
Exports of Goods, NFS        20.2        11.5           -5.0       16.6      14.8
Imports of Goods, NFS       -72.5        41.4           34.1       24.4      5.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value added                 Labor Force                 V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million        X           '000          %              US$            %
Primary sector              92.5          52.8        157.0         78.9            589.2           66.9
Secondary sector            17.3           9.9          5.0          2.5           3460.0          394.7
Services                    65.3          37.3         35.0         17.6           1865.7          212.1
Total/Average            175.1         100.0        199.0        100.0            879.9          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Goverrment
GP Mln.                          % of GDP
1978    1979    1980    1981        1978    1979    1980    1981
Current Receipts               486.5   700.4   716.6   867.8          8.7    11.9    12.1
Current Expenditure           1085.9  1210.4  1634.4  1812.5         19.6    20.6    27.6
Current Surplus (Deficit=-) -598.5  -510.0  -917.8  -944.7          -10.8    -8.7   -15.5
Non-Budgetary Expenditures  1653.0  1800.0  2828.0    ..             29.8    30.6    47.8
External Assistance (gross) 1507.6  2538.6  2059.4    ..             27.2    43.1    35.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1978         1979          1980           1981   a/
(Million GP outstanding end period)
Money Supply and Quasi-money           1213.0      1391.0         2359.0         2662.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector           1252.7      1337.5         1886.0         3243.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector          285.0       131.0           85.1           192.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-money as % of GDP        21.9       23.6            39.8
Consumer Price Index
(1976=100)                         116.0       140.6          221.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Money Supply                                       14.7           69.5           12.8
Consumer Price Index                   13.6       21.2           57.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector          79.8         6.8            41.0           72.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector         90.0        54.0           35.0           125.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average rates noted on the
following page.
a/ First Semester



- 21 -
GUINEA BISSAU
ANNEX I
P.g. 5
TRADE, PAYTt5TS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYIEITS            1978       1979       1980               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-81)
US$ Wiqn.     %
(U.S$ Million)
Exporta of Goods, RFS           15.1       17.6      20.2               Groundouts                     3.9         30.2
Imports of Good., NFS          -55.5     -68.9      -72.6               Fish end Shrimp                3.9         30.2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -40.4    -51.3        -52.4               Palm Kernels                   2.6         20.2
Logs and Seen Tinber           0.6          4.7
Net Investment Inco-e                                                   All Other Products              1.9        14.7
and Net transfers                8.5       13.5      17.3                                TOTAL        12.9        100.0
eliance on oCrrent Account   -48.9       -64.8      -69.7
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEIBER 1981
US$ Kln.
Capital Grants                  26.8      29.1       28.6
Net MLT Borrowing               16.2      45.4       13.9               Public Debt (Disbureed), i-I. Ouaranteed         102.1
Diabursements                  6.5      46.7       16.8               Non-guarsoteed Private Debt
A-orti-ation                  -0.3      -1.3       -2.9               Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Other Capital (not)              1.0        1.0       1,1               DEFT SERVICE RATIO FOR DECElBER 1981 a/           %
Other Items n.e.i.              -5.9       -3.5      18.4
Increase in Reserves           -10.6       7.2       -7.6               Public Debt, Inol. guaranteed                    72.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Grons Reserves (end year)        9.5       17.7      12.5               Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Ret Re.s-vss (esd year)         -9.5      -2.3       -9.9
Fuel and Related Materials                                              IB_D/IDA LENDING, SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 (MIllion US 0 ):
Imports of Petroleum           2.3       3.9        3.4
ERports of Petroleum            -         -          -                                             0BRD         IDA
Outstanding and Disbureed    0.0          12.3
Undinbureed                   0.0          3.5
Outstanding Including
SATE OF EXCHANGE                                                           Undiburoed                0.0         15.8
Annual Average
(0B Pesos per US8)
1978                              35.04
1979                              34.06
1980                              33.81
1981                              38.44
..not avilable
a!  Interest and repaymeats divided by commodities eports.                                          1WA2DA
November 1982



- 22 -
ANNEX II
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of September 31, 1982)
'Credit No.   Year           Borrower                    Purpose               Amount-/  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
(less cancellations)
878-GUB    1979      Republic of Guinea-Bissau    Roads                        9.0         1.2
1095-GUB    1981       Republic of Guinea-Bissau    Petroleum Explo-            6.8         2.3
ration
Total                                                   15.8
of which has been repaid                                   -
Total now held by IDA                                   15.8
Total undisbursed                                        3.5         3.5
2/
B.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Credit No. 878    Roads Project; US$9.0 million; Credit of February 9, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: June 1, 1979; Closing Date: September 30 1983.
The project provides for a rehabilitation and maintenance program,
equipment and supplies for three brigades, and workshops and technical assistance.
Following initial delays, the project scope was reduced slightly from appraisal estimates.
Execution is proceeding well; a third brigade is being mounted, and a follow-up project is
in preparation.
Credit No. 1095   Petroleum Exploration Project; US$6.8 million; Credit of January 13, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1981; Clin  ate:  June 30, 1984
The project provides for the collection, processing and evaluation of seismic
data, as well as for promotion of exploration contracts, physical facilities, and training.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily, and the legal framework for the petroleum
sector has been established. Tendering for exploration contracts covering six offshore lots
is expected in early 1983.
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems which are
being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them. They should be read in
this sense and with the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 23 -
ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)      Time taken to prepare project:  4 months (June-September 1982)
(b)      Project prepared by:  Consultants/Government
(c)      Identification: April 1982
(d)      Appraisal: September 1982
(e)      Negotiations:  January 1983
(f)      Planned date of effectiveness:  May 1983
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action:  None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)      The Government will prepare a plan of action and schedule of
implementation on petroleum product pricing by June 30, 1984
for discussion with IDA. (para 28)
(b)      PETROMINAS will keep the proceeds of any sale of data collected
during project implementation in a special account and use them
for further investment in the hydrocarbon sector (para. 51).
(c)      PETROMINAS would submit to the Association the draft contracts
with Digicon for approval. (para. 51).



-24-
ANNEX IV
GUINEA-BISSAU
Petroleum Potential of the Shallow Water Area
The offshore basin of Guinea Bissau belongs to the general northwest
African continental margin, the oldest passive margins of the modern oceans.
Rifting and sea floor spreading began in late Triassic to mid Jurassic
times. As a result, thick sediment accumulations have developed on most parts
of these mature passive continental margins. The Guinea Bissau basin appears
as a southern extension of the coastal basin off Senegal and extends southward
into Guinea Conakry. It is part of an area where the width of the shelf is
the largest and exceeds 120 km. Little is known on the early rift sediments
underneath the Triassic or early Jurassic salt. By comparison with other
areas, and some seismic indications, uplift and block faulting seems probably
resulting in graben systems where possible organic rich sediments could have
deposited. The deposition of the massive salt sequence provoked numerous
diapirs in the western part of the basin (outer shelf and slope). After the
initial rifting, during mid to late jurassic time and eventually lower
cretaceous, a transgression and carbonate build-up was followed by regressive
and delta formations. The mid Cretaceous carbonaceous black shales, masked by
terrigenous input and partly influenced by gravitational sliding and deep
water currents were apparently developed as in other Atlantic basins. All
these formations are progressively punching out or interfingering with elastic
deposits near the continent. Structurally this happens against a steep rise
of the basement which varies in depth from 8000/10000 m near the eastern
boundary of the previous seismic survey to 2000/3000 m in the onshore. Normal
or listric faults seem to develop along this basement rise together with
sedimentary onlaps and local unconformities. In summary, the potential for
hydrocarbon generation entrapments in the area proposed for the survey appears
good. It will need, however, good seismic data specially in deep formations a
thorough interpretation with special processing (seismic stratigraphy
techniques) to enhance the possible structural and stratigraphic leads and
grade the potential zones. The survey proposed under the project is of utmost
importance for Guinea Bissau to prepare adequately a second round of bidding
by oil companies.



-25-
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA-BISSAU
Shallow Water Seismic Survey
A survey of the industry clearly indicates that the system offered by
Digicon is technically superior. In the shallow water area in offshore Guinea
Bissau deep reflections are hoped for, especially from the region beneath the
salt formation, which has proven to be important as possible producers of
petroleum in other West African countries. In order to be able to do this
effectively in conducting a seismic survey, everything possible must be done
to increase the signal-to-noise ratio. This can be accomplished by:
(a) increasing power of the source;
(b) increasing multiplicity of coverage;
(c) decreasing ambient noise;
(d) decreasing instrument noise; and
(e) increasing dynamic range of entire system.
Each of these points are discussed below.
2.       The power of the source can effectively be raised by increasing the
volume of air number of guns) in the airgun array or by increasing the
pressure. The airgun array offered by Digicon is the largest of any
contractor's boat capable of shallow water seismic recording. It consists of
twenty airguns of variable size for a total of 1800 cubic inches fired at a
normal pressure of 1850-1900 psi.
3.       With regard to coverage, Digicon is the only contractor offering 192
channels, and is able to consistently record 48 fold coverage with 6.25 m
between depth points. This, of course, greatly enhances the continuity of the
data and raises the signal-to-noise ratio.
4.       Decreasing the ambient noise is achieved by use of the digital
cable. Digicon is the only company in the world who has developed a
functional digital cable for use in offshore seismic work. The digital cable
allows the recording of a number of channels ( in this case 192 channels)
without the attendent increase in number of pairs of conductors. In
conventional cables each channel has one pair of conductors which carries the
analogue electrical signal from the geophone group to the analogue-to-digital
converter and then to the magnetic tape recorder. For 192 channels at least
384 separate wires would be necessary, and each wire could pick up and carry
stray electrical noises which are frequently found around a boat. Moreover,
any damage to the cable or entry of salt water into the cable or contacts
could cause cross-feed which would appear on the recording as unwanted
noise. The digital cable offered by Digicon, by virtue of its having one pair
of conductors is not prone to these noises, therefore the signal-to-noise
ratio is effectively raised.



-26-
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
5.       The instrument noise, if one considers the cable as an extension of
the instruments, is greatly reduced as all channel-to-channel cross feed is
eliminated. And finally, although the dynamic range of the Digicon system
probably remains unchanged, the effective gain within the system is
accomplished by significantly reducing the noise.
6.       Given these technical characteristics, Digicon has advanced to a new
plateau in state-of-the art shallow water acqusition of seismic data. In
addition to the superiority of the electronic components of Digicon's system
discussed above, the boat to be used in Guinea Bissau (the M. V. Digicon
Definition) also seems to be superior to any other offered by the geophysical
industry. The boat is 120 ft long with a 38 ft beam and a 4 ft draft,
sleeping 24 people and capable of working 24 hours per day. It is equipped
with 20 airguns for the energy source and is powered by two 12V71 engines with
an endurance rating of 30 days.
7.       The general consensus in the industry is that the cable is an
important breakthrough, which every geophysical company will have to acquire
in the future to remain competitive. The improvement in signal-to-noise
ratio, is well worth any additional expense which may be incurred in using the
cable.



- 27 -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU                                                                 ANNEX VI
Proposed Organizational Structure for the Petroleum Sector
Minister of
Natural Resources
Legal Consultants    l
Exploration Adviser                              ,of Petrominas
Negotiations Adviser
Director General
of Petrominas
L  -  -         Exploration                                                                      Financial Control of
Consultants                                                                    Operation of Companies
Exploration                            Administration    |                       Drilling and
Division                                Division       |                    Production Division  |
Director of Exploration                 Director of Administration
Geologists (2)                          Accountants (2)
Geophysicist (1)                        Public Relations Official (1)
Oil Engineer (1)                        Personnel Officer (1)
Oil Economist/Jurist (1)
Documentalist (1)
World Bank-24407






IBRD16817
1AURITAIJIA  II7'                            16- S         E          N           E       15  G           A         L                  I
-         M A U I                                                                             T A  N-os  I        Ayh                                                          y|d.   o_  ._.
-      Wo,ld B-nks OtOttOcMs,Y /or    0 5
SENE GAlY                             ,           s   sodas o\
rhe "OI'dsfloS II5ed (it\
_ r-  _   r          y  UPPER   |  bo ,,sda,,oOiBoos's''hb-lb-   gn 'hl -p
-,t        1    f     S1 A  L  t  VOL TA   J  [ do SoS O5SAlv nn sh/ ParS of Bit/l,  . _ 1.
' fy  _e'sSy    _p                                                                                                                          N   IsdoOorio
SIERRA LEONEC I VIVOR          TOG       g         - -oa f d--OO                                                                                                                                             G      NlEA
-' ACOAST /GHANA(                                                                                                                                                                    (
/ < 51>/>5l t^11AruAt jisKle  w~~>  -rl f  LEv  @ X   /                                        XS--  X                                   '  G U I N E A 
LIBERIA~                                                                         oRoEoo                                                          oso,c
11-ii IaSl4-ti   W t  4./ <--\                                                                                                       S                                            |-cg 
130-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
G    <  <         _ 0-X  u+E                                                                       / SECOND  PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
4                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROMAOT ION  PROJECT
zt7t    SEISMIC SRVEY UNDER THIE FIRST PROJECT
SEISMIC SUFIVEY UNDER TIIE SECOND PROJECl
3  BLOC S OFFERED LINnER THE FIRST PROJFCI
ISOBATH IN METE RS
MAIN ROADS
0  MAIN TOWNS
RIVERS
B        2b       sn        75          100                                                        INTERNAITIONAL ROUNDARIFS
KILOMETERS
_R_7                                                                    16                    _5 _0



I                      I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                v                     I



IBRD16817
MAUBITA  N IA  I  7                                                                                                                                                    I~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'  DECEMIBER 1982
A  U^    R   I A N   I A                                      1'7                                                  1 ' s           E            N             E        IS   G             A           I                       1-C E                   E B  R 1 S 
r   '                     7   M A L I       Thi,s ap has been prepared by the                                                                                                -        -                      -
S FNe GA LV                 7~~~~~  World d~ank r,as eof the readers of                                                                                                                                           rao
SENEGAL'                            7-'-    World Banks sVWf enos--ly for
~~~~~ ~~~~~~~  ~fth report to wh,h it ' tts-hed.
7-MBIA= _,i    \         X UPPER       XTh. d--oo,sat,-s  sed and thr
GUINEA ,),  lt, VL                    do st ielyon -the lpat of the
GUINEA                                     XWorld Bank I'd it ayfhat-s any
torty    lega staIns-t                             *            S
SIERRA LEONE1         IVORY                    r    t a I                                                  I                                                             -nsta,oofnohvndI   *  *-    1;  P*  No  LROM       I                  J                          |
/    COAST  4GHANA~                                s9----~-~St V,osn                                                                   Bhnd*-
LIBER Ag                                                                                                                                                                   ,       B[hF                                                             '
2. .....
I- ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '
!e; Ca. I  4Mnmn
8                                                                        RIo ,1                                           SECOND   PETROLEUM  EXPLORATION
11  1           -~~~~~                                  4----                  /   /  -4-  ~~~~~~~~t1e,sso        -~~~~~ -~~~  ~~  (                       PROMOTION                 PROJOM TIOEPR JET
I  ~~~-~--  6    ~~~~                   I--                    /  >- ~~~~~~~$lz~~~srLXl0 0/                                        SEISMIC SURVEY LJNDER THE FIRST PROJECT
III  1                 //                                        -                                             - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLISMICSURVEY UNDEP THE SkCONO PROJECT
-   ___         /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1(  f~~~~~~~~~~~                           -- ~          LOCKSOFF L R ED UN DE RTH E FIRST PROJECT
/   /     -~~~~~-   OI 1L WE LLS
-,,2oo   IS0DbATH IN METERS
MAIN ROADS
0       MAIN TOWNS
'ni-. RIVERS
S    25          1O0B0R                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS
lB                                                       17                                                   16'                                             15'                                                 -



