FFICIAL,       CREDIT NUMBER 1334 GUB
D00CUME NTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    (Y, 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1334 GUB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   o   KCZ ,A    Jq,               , 1983,
between the REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Petrominas" means the Borrower's National Corpora-
tion for Petroleum and Mineral Research and Exploration (Empresa
Nacional de Pesquisa de Explorago Petrolifera e Mineira) and any
successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to eleven million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 11,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the seismic survey to be carried out under Part A.1 of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured on the basis of a directly negotiated contract
acceptable to the Association.
(b) The equipment and furnishings to be purchased under
Part E.4 of the Project shall be procured on the basis of the
best quotations received from at least three potential sup-
pliers.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 7.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such plaCes
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1993, and ending October 15,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable


﻿-3-
on October 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through Petrominas with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and petro-
leum practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
(b) The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, make
the proceeds of the Credit available to Petrominas as a contribu-
tion to its capital.  The terms and conditions of such transfer
shall be periodically reviewed by the Borrower in consultation
with the Association in the light of the financial situation of
Petrominas.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in supervising
Part A of the Projer.t and in carrying out Parts B through E of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or shall cause Petrominas
to employ, petroleum exploration and petroleum accounting consul-
tants and legal advisors whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, such consultants and advisors   to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
or cause to be made adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project until its
completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause
to be furnished, to the Association, all plans, specifications
and reports for the Project promptly upon their preparation and
all contract documents promptly upon their signing, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and the services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accred-
ited representatives, or cause them to be enabled, to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, or
shall cause to be furnished, quarterly progress reports, in a
format satisfactory to the Association, on the execution of the
Project; (iv) shall furnish to the Association at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds; and (v) shall annually furnish information to the
Association on the staffing of Petrominas and on the measures
planned for the gradual replacement of foreign consultants by
local staff.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to which the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause Petrominas to
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope


﻿-5-
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the perfor-
mance by the Borrower, Petrominas, and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
June 30, 1984 prepare proposals for the establishment of a new
system of pricing of petroleum products based on the findings of
the study comprising Part D of the Project and afford the Asso-
ciation the opportunity to comment thereon; and (ii) promptly
thereafter, take all steps necessary to implement such system of
pricing, taking into account the Association's comments.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall keep and shall cause
Petrominas to keep separate accounts with respect to the Project,
and shall cause Petrominas to maintain records adequate to
reflect i.- accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Petrominas to: (i) have its
accounts, including its separate accounts in respect of the
Project, and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, (A).certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall ha-e reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning its accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause Petrominas to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.


﻿-6 -
Section 4.03. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
Petrominas shall deposit in a separate account all proceeds from
the sale of reports and information produced or compiled under
the Project and shall use said proceeds exclusively to finance
surveys, studies, reports, and other developmental activities in
the petroleum sector.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                   IM3     , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.04 (b) (v) and Article IV of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Economia e de Finangas of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia
e de Finanqas
Bissau
Guinea-Bissau
Cable address:                       Telex:
BANGUINE                           96911 (EBNGBI)
Bissau                             96900 (PTTBBI)


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                    SDR Equivalent)
(1) The last 2000                                    9,100,000
kilometers of
the seismic
survey included
in Part A of
the Project
(2) Consultants'                                     1,820,000
and advisors'
services
(3) Pricing study                                       50,000
(4) Equipment and                                      270,000
furnishings
(5) Training and                                       100,000
fellowships
(6) Unallocated                                        560,000
TOTAL                              11,900,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;


﻿-9-
(b) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
or
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Seismic Survey
Carrying out a seismic survey (general reconnaissance
survey) of about 4,000 kilometers in the Borrower's
shallow offshore area.
Part B:   Data Processing and Evaluation
1.   Processing of the data obtained under Part A, including
stratigraphic and interval velocity studies.
2.   Evaluation of the data processed under Part B.1 and
their integration in the existing data on the area.
Part C:   Promotion of Exploration and Production Contracts
1.   Preparation of a report describing the national petro-
leum potential in general and the petroleum potential
in the shallow offshore area surveyed under Part A in
particular.
2.   Promotion of the shallow offshore area surveyed under
Part A to oil companies and, as needed, negotiation of
exploration and production contracts.
3.   Monitoring exploration and production activities of
companies which have entered into exploration or
production contracts.
Part D:   Pricing Study
Preparation by March 31, 1984 of a study to establish a
pricing system for petroleum products which reflects
the international prices of such products (c.i.f.
Bissau) and provides for prompt adjustments in response
to changes in such prices.


﻿- 11 -
Part E:   Training and Institutional Support
1.   Fellowships  for   one o1   engineer, one    petroleum
economist and one documentalist.
2.   Short-term courses related to petroleum exploration,
including administration and finance.
3.   Management of the technical activities of Petrominas
and on-the-job training for designated staff.
4.   Procurement and installation of office equipment and
furnishings for about 16 offices and a documentation
center for use in the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the       t    day of
198 03
FOR SECRETARY


