Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24994
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23940)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR$ 55.189 MILLION (US$73.28 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDIA
FOR A
FAMILY WELFARE (URBAN SLUMS) PROJECT
November 19, 2002
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR UNIT
SOUTH ASIA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Rupee
Rupee 1.00 = US$ 0.49
US$ 1.00 = Rupee 49.0
FISCAL YEAR
April I March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANM        -      Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
AP         -      Andhra Pradesh
BCC        -      Bangalore City Corporation
CBO        -      Community Based Organization
CMDA       -      Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
CUDP HI    -      Third IDA assisted Calcutta Urban Development Project
DFID       -      Department for International Development
DJB        -      Delhi Jal Board
ESI        -      Employees State Insurance Corporation
ESOPD      -      Extended Special Outpatient Department
FP         -      Family Planning
FW         -      Family Welfare
GIS        -      Geographic Information System
GOI-       Government of India
GOWB       -      Government of West Bengal
HAU        -      Health Admrinistration Unit
HIV-       Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HSCC       -      Hospital Services Consultancy CoTporation
IMR        -      Infant Mortality Rate
J J Cluster  -    Jhuggi Jhoupdi Clusters
KMlA       -      Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority
LACI       -      Loan Administration Change Initiative
MCD        -      Municipal Corporation of Delhi
MCH        -      Matemal & Child Health
MIS        -      Management Information Systems
MOHIFW     -      Ministry of Health & Family Welfare
MTR        -      Mid Term Review
NMDC       -      New Delhi Municipal Corporation
ODA        -      Overseas Development Authority
PMP        -      Pnvate Medical Practitioners
QAG        -      Quality Assurance Group
RCH        -      Reproductive and Child Health
SAR        -      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR        -      Special Drawing Rights
TFR        -      Total Fertility Rate
UNICEF     -      United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA      -      United Nations Population Fund
URS        -      Urban Revamping Scheme
WHO        -      World Health Organization
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   Michael F. Carter
Sector Director:   Charles C. Griffin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     G.N.V. Ramana



INDIA
FAMILY WELFARE (URBAN SLUMS) PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                16
10. Additional Information                                                         16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              27
Annex 8. Innovative Schemes                                                        29
Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                              30
Annex 10. Performance Indicators                                                   47






Project ID: P009963                                      Project Name POPULATION VIII
Team Leader: G N V Ramana                                TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 17, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: POPULATION VIII                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-23940
Country/Department: INDIA                                              Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (8%);
Vocational training (4%); Health (84%); Other
social services (4%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/22/1989                            Effective: 11/01/1992         06/30/1994
Appraisal:  04/01/1992                               MTR: 11/20/1998           07/04/1998
Approval:  06/18/1992                             Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOI/MIN OF HEALTH & FAMILY WELFARE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                          Joseph D. Wood
Country Manager:     Michael F. Carter                        Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Anabela Abreu                             Richard Lee Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:  G.N.V. Ramana                            Althea Hill
ICR Primary Author:  G.N.V. Ramana; Sati Achath;
Badrud Duza
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the US$81.29 million project (IDA Credit US$ 73. 28) were to: (a) reduce



fertility, by improving access to and demand for family planning services; and (b) improve maternal and
child health, by helping to decrease maternal and infant mortality rates among slum populations in the four
metropolitan areas of Bangalore, Delhi, Hyderabad, and Kolkata.
The objectives were clearly stated, important to the country's social development, and realistic in scale and
scope. They were also timely and appropriate to the needs of the Borrower. The aim was to address the
formidable challenge of delivering cost-effective, affordable and quality reproductive and child health
(RCH) interventions in the desperate slum setting of four large cities in India. This was a largely neglected
area demanding urgent attention for humane, health and political reasons. The project was a critical part of
the Bank's strategy of supporting human development and poverty alleviation in India, providing the
opportunity to extend rapid and targeted assistance to the most vulnerable urban slum populations (about
1.6 million poor women 15-44 years of age and about 850,000 children 0-4 years of age) who were not
adequately covered by the existing Primacy Health Care infrastructure of the cities.
The project was consistent with the recommendations of the Krishnan Committee (1982), a landmark for
policy guidelines on urban interventions. It supported the Government of India's (GOI) Urban Revamping
Scheme (1984), which had sought to imnprove the linkages between the provision of family welfare services
and other basic health interventions, specifically clean drinking water and sewerage/sanitation facilities. It
was also in line with experiences emerging from previous programs, such as: Urban Basic Services for the
Poor; Environmental Improvement in Urban Slums Program; Nehru Employment Scheme; Calcutta Urban
Development Project m (CUDP III); and seven World Bank assisted Population Projects since 1973,
including the family welfare project for Bombay (Mumbai) and Madras (Chennai) cities (1988-1995).
These underscored the emerging strategies in urban family welfare and health interventions, including: (a)
the value of integrating family welfare with basic health care; (b) the importance of linking family welfare
and health with other development programs; and (c) the opportunities for their successful implementation
through the involvement of community based organizations (CBOs). The present project (1994-2002) was
the second IDA-supported population and health intervention specifically targeting urban slum populations.
It allowed for continued collaboration between the Bank and other development partners active in the sector
in India, such as, ODA)/ DFID, UNICEF, WHO, UNFPA.
The project was fairly straight forward, and the activities and their projected execution were clearly
defined. The design provided a good deal of flexibility for adaptation in the project cities. This was helpful
in participatory planning and implementation by the local community.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Following the Mid-Term Review (MTR) undertaken during May-June 1998 a third objective was added to
pilot strengthening of family welfare logistic systems in two states - one relatively better performing (Tamil
Nadu) and one weaker perforning (Uttar Pradesh). Fragmented handling, improper storage and irregular
supplies due to lack of scientific logistic management systems were estimated to result in wastage of more
than 10% of RCH supplies in India (Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh Proposals - GOI 1998). MOHFW and
several states identified strengthening of RCH supply logistics as a priority area during the MTR. Lessons
from these pilots could subsequently improve the efficiency and quality of urban family welfare programs
in the country.
Based on the initial experience in four project cities and readiness for implementation, part of the savings
were also utilized to expand ongoing project activities to more than 1.6 million beneficiaries in the original
four cities and about four million beneficiaries in 94 smaller towns in the states of Andhra Pradesh (73),
Karnataka (11) and West Bengal (10).
-2-



3.3 Original Components:
The project originally consisted of the following six components.
Component 1: Improving Access to Family Welfare (FW) and Maternal and Child Health (MCH)
Services (US$ 40.4 million: 42.1% of the project)
The urban slum populations had limited access to basic health facilities, which themselves were inadequate.
To address this limitation, the project supported the development of a client-responsive program for slum
communities, which planned to utilize a fleet of trained female volunteers (Bustee Sevikas, link workers,
trained Dais, Honorary Health Workers) who were residents of the slum community they served. They
were to work closely with the community and the health workers operating in the facilities created under the
project. Enhanced access to FW and MCH services was also sought through the construction of new
service outlets and upgrading of existing facilities. The project financed the costs of honoraria for the
female volunteers; salaries of additional staff on a declining scale; and construction and renovation of
about 600 health facilities, with furniture, equipment, and vehicles.
Component 1I: Improving the Quality of Family Welfare Services (US$ 10.01 million: 10.4% of the
project)
The project aimed to improve the quality of family welfare services by increased emphasis on: (a) pre- and
in-service training for medical and paramedical staff; (b) training of female volunteers to help outreach
service delivery; and (c) increased involvement of community based organizations (CBOs) and private
medical practitioners (PMPs) in training as well as service delivery. These activities would enable the
municipalities to train about 21,000 health workers and local leaders. The project was also to support the
provision of essential supplies such as health worker kits, disposable delivery kits, medicines and family
welfare supplies.
Component III: Increasing the Demandfor Family Welfare Services (US$ 9.18 million: 9.6 % of the
project)
The pre-project assessments identified low demand for family welfare and health services in the urban
slums. The project sought to improve demand through creating client-friendly ambience, and enhancing the
health seeking behavior. Increasing the participation of the municipal leaders and the urban slum
communities in the design, implementation and supervision of the services was sought to promote local
ownership. Stakeholder consultation and sensitization were carried out prior to appraisal and planned to be
continued during the implementation.
A critical element in increasing the demand for family welfare and health care was development of a
sustainable IEC capacity in the municipalities though: (a) IEC activities and messages to trigger and
sustain attitudinal and behavioral changes; (b) participatory approaches to design appropriate messages
and media plans with focus on inter-personal communication; and (c) communications training for
service delivery personnel. The project was to support establishment of IEC cells in the municipalities,
training, consultancy support, purchase of audio-visual equipment, and media time.
Component I V: Improving the Management ofFW Program (US$ 3.14 million: 3.3 % of the project)
This component was to strengthen the Family Welfare (FW) program management in the municipalities by
- 3-



improving coordination with other municipal departments providing services to slum communities,
especially those dealing with sanitation and water supply, education and nutrition. Enhanced coordination
with CBOs, PMPs and the community at large was also sought.
In order to effectively implement and monitor various project activities, improved capacity was to be built
at the respective units through local and foreign training, use of local and foreign experts, equipment,
vehicles, and salaries of additional management staff on a declining scale. Special emphasis was to be
given to training, management information systems (MIS), design and implementation of innovative
schemes, and financial management.
Component V: Supporting Innovative Schemes (US$ 7.76 million: 8.1% of the project)
To facilitate women's empowerment and income generation, the project envisaged innovative schemes.
These were to focus on young females and adolescent girls, and included supplementary nutrition, creche
programs, environmental sanitation drives, and education and skill training. The implementation was to be
done in close collaboration with CBOs and local municipalities.
Component VI: Preparing Future Projects (US$ 8 million: 8.3% of the project)
The project made provision for preparation of new urban health programs for 15 cities in the states of
Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Uttar Pradesh.
3.4 Revised Components:
As mentioned in Section 5.4, with the savings of about US$38 million estimated at MTR, and in light of
the revised objectives, one additional component on logistics support to Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh
was added to the project.
Component VII Strengthening FW Logistics in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh
This component was to strengthen the logistics systems for pharmaceuticals and contraceptives for Family
Welfare, with the potential of expansion to include vaccines. Tamil Nadu was to expand capacity of 11 of
the district warehouses and Uttar Pradesh was to strengthen capacity of the state warehouse and establish
14 new regional warehouses. Logistics management capacity at state and regional levels was to be
enhanced through staffing, training and establishment of computerized logistics management information
systems.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project design predates the inception of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). Hence, there was no
official assessment of its quality at entry. Nevertheless, the ICR deems the quality at entry to be
satisfactory and the project as well conceived. During preparation of the project, major risk factors and
lessons learned from other earlier projects in the health sector in India were considered and incorporated
into the project design. Provision for systematic training and supportive supervision was built in the
design. Extensive stakeholder consultations at the municipal and community levels, and the participatory
process in project preparation substantially contributed to the quality and readiness at entry. Gleaning the
experiences of previous urban and community based health and development interventions also provided
insight into the challenges and potentials for the project. The focus of the project was brought in line with
the shift from family planning towards comprehensive reproductive and child health services in 1994, soon
after it became effective. However, quality of entry could have been further enhanced had additional
-4 -



efforts during project preparation been taken in several areas: (a) better familiarization of the implementing
agencies with the Bank's procurement and financial procedures; (b) timely acquisition of land for the new
facilities; and (c) coordination of project efforts with relevant efforts of agencies providing education, skill
development, and environmental sanitation, among others.
Despite adequate project preparation, there was a two year delay in effectiveness. This is mainly due to
delay in obtaining cabinet clearance consequent to changes in the federal government. Efforts to obtain
parallel clearances from board and Government of India immediately after negotiations would have
prevented such delays.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the outcome of the project objectives was satisfactory. In the original four project cities, there
was a notable fertility decline among the slum populations (first objective); and markedly improved
matemal and child health as evidenced by a decrease in infant mortality and increased use of essential RCH
services by women and children (second objective), especially in Kolkata, Bangalore and Hyderabad.
Again, these improvements are more pronounced in the slums of Bangalore, Kolkata and Hyderabad and
hence their achievement of the project objectives is rated "highly satisfactoty". Achievement of
development objectives in Delhi (Tables I and 2) and new cities included after the MTR is rated
satisfactory (Annex I and 8). The pilot for logistics system for contraceptive and MCH supplies
(third/revised objective) is rated satisfactory for the state of Tamil Nadu and marginally satisfactory for
Uttar Pradesh.
Table 1. Changes in Key Impact Indicators
Indicator
Ban laore            Delhi           Hyderabad           Kolkata
Year              Before    After    Before    After   Before    After    Before    After
Total Fertility Rate  3.37   2.01     5.10     3.77      3.40     2.09     1.90      1.70
Infant Mortality    78       22       100       53       81       69        56       26
R a te          I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _I_ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Source: Baseline and Endhne surveys
Table 2. Chan es in Key Process Indicators (%)
Indicator                      Ban alore         Delhi        Hyderabad        Kolkata
Before  After   Before  After   Before  After   Before  After
Contraceptive       Termina
Prevalence          l method  36.1    51.4   20.0    22.1    28.5    62.2    27.3    34.0
(Modern method)
Total   39.9    60.8    33.0   41.7    41.3    63.8    52.2*   51.6
Antenatal Coverage
(3+ contacts)                71.0    84.1    55.0    53.5    88.0   95.6    47.0    87.3
Institutional Delivery       76.9    87.9    14.3*   27.8    72.0    96.5    53.9    89.0
Fully Immunized
Children                     49.6    89.8    62.0    55.8    50.0    82.2   57.1*    89.1
(12-23 months)
* Mid-term(1998)
Source: Baseline and Endline Surveys
-5-



In view of other ongoing health and development interventions, attributing the observed changes to the
project efforts needs to be interpreted with caution. A comparative analysis was carried out with results
from the household and facility surveys conducted by independent agencies in the four cities where the
project was implemented for eight years, with results of National Family Health Survey (NFHS, 1992-93
and 1998-99). The following conclusions emerged:
a.     The decline in Total Fertility Rate (TFR) was more pronounced for Bangalore and Hyderabad
where TFR (2.0 and 2.1 respectively) approached replacement level of fertility. Kolkata had the lowest
TFR (1.7) and had already been below the replacement level prior to project inception, and hence the rate
of decline was less marked. Delhi was behind the other cities. It is difficult to precisely quantify the
project's contribution to the fertility decline, since segregated data on urban slum residents are not available
in NFHS. The observed decline can to some extent be explained on the basis of increased contraceptive
use, especially among low parity couples. A third of the couples with one child in Kolkata and more than a
quarter in Bangalore were using some modem contraceptives. About a third of the users received
contraceptive services from the project facilities. A comparison of the annual rate of decline in TFR in
project cities with that of NFHS (Urban) data revealed higher decline in Hyderabad, Bangalore, and Delhi
(Annex 1).
b.     The Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) registered a steady decline, especially in Bangalore (78 to 22),
Delhi (100 to 53) and Kolkata (56 to 26). The decline was less marked in Hyderabad (81 to 69). The
observed decline may to some extent be explained on the basis of increased use of essential RCH services.
More than 80 percent of the expectant women in Bangalore, Hyderabad and Kolkata received antenatal
care. A similar proportion of eligible children (12 -23 months) were fully immunized, and close to 90
percent of the deliveries in these three cities were institutional. Between a half to three-fourths of these
essential services were received from the project facilities (Annex 1). A comparison of the annual rate of
decline of IMR in project cities with that of NFHS (Urban) data revealed more pronounced decline in
Bangalore and Delhi (3-5 percent points a year). Matemal Mortality Ratios were not estimated due to
large data requirements. However, service statistics, focus group discussions and death audits from the
project cities suggest that maternal deaths have become rare.
c. All the planned logistic activities have been completed in Tamil Nadu and logistic management
information systems (LMIS) were in place in all the newly built warehouses. Uttar Pradesh has
completed the planned infrastructure. However, the LMIS is yet to made fully functional.
The significance of the above achievements may be appreciated against the formidable challenge of
bringing family welfare and basic health services to the doorstep of the urban poor. Pioneering initiatives
were taken under the project. Health care for slum populations became a priority in the local and state
political agenda. There was progressively strong community ownership of the interventions, spearheaded
by the local leadership and grass-roots care givers. The female community volunteers and local service
providers became a major force in RCH delivery to the urban poor, and should remain a resource for the
community much beyond the life of the project without any financial incentives. Given the supportive
milieu, there was a positive change in the health seeking behavior of the slum dwellers, especially the
women-folk. These profound processes, coupled with various innovative and income generating activities,
led to an important beginning towards empowering the poor and previously voiceless urban slum and
semi-literate women. The degree of these accomplishments, which are difficult to quantify, did vary
between the project cities and states. Nonetheless, everywhere there was an increasingly notable change.
The progress along these processes would prove critical for the long-term outcomes.
In view of a comparative advantage along many of the above factors, Kolkata scored well in terms of
- 6 -



various process, outcome and impact indicators. Experience from urban community based interventions in
the preceding two decades, including the Bank supported CUDP programs, provided a facilitating
environment in Kolkata to fully benefit from the project interventions. Bangalore and Hyderabad followed
closely. Delhi was somewhat handicapped, partly because the project addressed the most vulnerable slum
populations residing in temporary and shifting settlements (Jhuggi Jhoupdi Clusters). On the logistics side,
Uttar Pradesh was more constrained owing to its weaker implementation capacities, compared to Tamil
Nadu. In the new cities, the project implementation took place only during the final two years of the
project, and hence it would be some time before outcomes could be adequately documented.
4.2 Outputs by components:
For most of the components, the outputs achieved matched or exceeded the project goals despite delayed
effectiveness. Also, due to delay in clearances for extension, the project closing date was extended by one
year. Details of various project outputs by components are given in Annex 1 and Annex 8.
Component L Improved access of the slum populations to FW and MCH services was highly
satisfactory in Bangalore, Hyderabad and Kolkata and satisfactory in Delhi and the additional smaller
towns. RCH outreach services were extended to 11.35 million urban slum/poor populations (double the
SAR goal) residing in 2,247 slums in four metropolitan cities and 94 smaller towns. 17,401 female
volunteers (more than double the SAR figure) from the respective slum communities were working as
social mobilizers and service providers to improve health seeking behaviors of the urban poor. To provide
clinical backup to outreach services, 614 new facilities were built close to the slums and 720 facilities were
renovated (more than double the SAR targets). AP entered into innovative partnership with 192 CBOs to
provide RCH services to urban poor in 74 towns.
Component II: Enhanced quality of FW and MCH services provided to slum populations was
satisfactory for the originalfour project cities; the time frame was too short to bring in sufficient change
for the additional smaller towns. Training cells were established in all project cities to plan and
implement systematic training for a large number of project volunteers and community leaders, besides the
medical, technical and paramedical personnel. In addition, communication and management training was
also provided. Nearly 27,000 persons were trained, exceeding the project goal by more than 50 percent.
Some of the advanced training was carried out in collaboration with reputed national institutions such as
the Teachers Training Center of the Jawharlal Nehru Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and
Research (Pondichery), the Administrative Staff College of India (Hyderabad), the State Institute of
Health and Family Welfare (Hyderabad), and the Indian Institute of Health Management Research (Jaipur).
Some of the senior managers of the project attended the health financing training program of the World
Bank Institute. The project also provided for quality enhancing equipment, pharmaceuticals and
consumables. The MIS reports documented sustained supply of these inputs. For the first time in the public
sector, 30 urban health centers supported by the project in Bangalore received ISO 9002 accreditation for
service quality. Health care waste management, which was not originally planned under the project, was
included subsequently to further enhance the quality of clinical care. The Bank's review missions, done in
conjunction with the implementation agencies, also played an important role in enhancing quality of
services.
Component III: Increased demandfor FW and MCH services in the originalfour project cities was
satisfactory; the time frame was too short to make a significant difference for the additional smaller
towns. A two pronged strategy was adopted to generate the demand for FW and MCH services -- first,
establishment of services which are client friendly, operating at timings convenient to women residing in the
slums; second, development of an IEC strategy, which has focus on priority health seeking behaviors
- 7 -



giving attention to inter-personal communication. The target groups included adolescents and young
women, women's groups and mothers-in-law. Due to such strategic use of targeted and inter-personal
communication, there were substantial savings (70% of planned) in this component. The original four
cities carried out most of the planned EEC activities (Annex 8).
Component IV: Strengthened management and administration of municipal Health Departments was
satisfactory for the originalfour project cities; the timeframe was too short to expect a significant
change for the additional smaller towns. High-level committees, headed by the Chief Secretaries of the
respective states facilitated quick policy decisions, supported by executive/steering committees to oversee
the project implementation. 366 project managers received management training including procurement,
quality improvement, managing RCH programs, and financing health sector reforms (SAR goal:200).
Dedicated women's development units in Bangalore and Hyderabad proved to be an added advantage.
Successive IDA missions observed the capacities of procurement and LEC wings of these PMUs to be
generally weak in all the cities, and training of the project team focused on these deficient areas. In
Hyderabad, change in construction management responsibility and non-availability of fully dedicated
engineering wing resulted in construction delays and inadequate monitoring. All project cities developed
simple MIS. Delhi and Kolkata effectively used this for management decisions such as, planning service
delivery activities, provider output monitoring, introducing user fee, and planning and monitoring LEC
campaigns. Kolkata also piloted Geographic Infornation System (GIS) to identify the beneficiaries and
monitor their access to FW and MCH services. The funds flow to the municipalities was through
MOHFW and the state Finance Departments. Funds flow problems were faced by Delhi and Hyderabad
in 1999-2000, which was expeditiously addressed by MOHFW. A Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI) for computerized management of physical and financial progress of the project was piloted in the
four project cities, though this was not used as the basis for disbursements.
Component V.: The progress toward supporting innovative schemes was satisfactory in the originalfour
project cities; because of limited time, they were not implemented in the additional smaller towns. As
envisaged in SAR, these activities focused on empowering women through vocational training and
education in the original four cities. All states used services of CBOs for these activities. A summnary of
major activities under this component is given in Annex 8.
Component V7: Preparing Future Projects. The scope of this component was changed during the mid term
review with inclusion of 94 smaller towns from the states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal
in the orginal scope of the project and introduction of component VII.
Component VII. Strengthening the logistics system in Tamil Nadu was satisfactory, and marginally
satisfactory in Uttar Pradesh. Out of the 26 warehouses planned under the project, 24 were completed
and made operational. Tamil Nadu fully implemented an integrated pharmaceutical Logistic Management
Information System (LMIS) in all the newly built warehouses. UP engaged the services of Ms. Hospital
Services Consultancy Corporation (India) Ltd., as procurement agent for goods/equipment. In UP, a
network of 13 regional warehouses were built, out of which three warehouses were transferred to the newly
created state of Uttaranchal. Software activities (LMIS and training) are being implemented with the
support of USAID, and integrated family welfare and health supply logistics is being piloted in five
districts under DA-supported UP Health Systems Development Project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable as this analysis was not done in SAR
-8-



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable as this analysis was not done in SAR
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project resulted in a modest institutional development impact. It successfully engaged municipal
bodies to plan and implement outcome based urban RCH services for the slum residents. In the project
cities a number of modalities are now in place to deliver community-based, easily accessible and affordable
services to the urban poor. The project cities have set-up an outreach service delivery system and
effectively used community volunteers and client-friendly service providers for enhancing demand for the
services offered. Their impact is likely to continue long beyond the life of the project.
The project has also registered valuable successes in institutional development that could be replicable
elsewhere with suitable adaptation. These would include:
1. Enhancing local ownership through decentralization (most project areas);
2. Complementing the skills and service delivery arrangements through strategic partnership with private
sector (use of part time doctors and specialists in Kolkata);
3. Cost-sharing mechanisms for health care, with safety nets for those below the poverty line (well-set in
Kolkata, and starting in Bangalore and AP);
4. Outsourcing service delivery to CBOs (AP, Bangalore);
5. Providing technical assistance to other states for ISO certification in quality of care (Karnataka);
6. Extending technical assistance in healthcare logistics management (Tamil Nadu );
7. Using GIS to identify vulnerable populations and monitor provider performance, and to enhance
municipal revenue
8. (Kolkata);
9. Piloting a Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) for computerized management of the
financial, physical and procurement progress of the project in the original four project cities, which
is gradually getting mainstreamed in such cities as Delhi.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
i. Rapid urban growth and heterogeneous urban population proved to be a challenge: Steep increase in
slum populations during the project period, especially in Delhi, made it difficult for the project teams to
keepup with growing demands for services. In addition, lack of homogeneity among slum residents, coming
from neighboring states/countries to the large metropolitan cities, made planning and implementation of
social mobilization activities very challenging.
ii. Land scarcity was acute in all urban areas: The originally identified sites had to be shifted several
times due to local pressures, competing demands from different sectors and community reluctance to
permit construction of health facilities close to schools and parks. Also, the prototype designs agreed
during project preparation required larger sites for maternity homes and health centers, which were more
difficult to obtain close to or in the slum areas. Implementation of civil works was significantly delayed
due to shifting of the identified sites and adaptation of the designs to suit the available sites.
iii. Multiplicity of agencies providing health services posed management and implementation problems
in all project cities: In Delhi, there were coordination problems for health service among different agencies,
-9-



such as Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), Delhi
Cantonment Board, Delhi Jal Board (DJB), Delhi Government, and Employees State Insurance (ESI)
Corporation. Similarly, in Hyderabad, coordination of the project with secondary and tertiary facilities
under different management constrained effective referral linkages. Bangalore and Kolkata had fully
dedicated maternity homes in adequate numbers that facilitated better follow-on care. However, even in
these two places, linkages with district and tertiary hospitals, not under the control of the municipalities,
remained weak.
iv. Lack ofpolitical ownership was a bottleneck in some cities: In Kolkata, strong political ownership by
elected representatives played a positive role in the smooth implementation of the project and sustaining the
reforms introduced. On the other hand, in Delhi, despite best efforts by the project team, effective
coordination between different agencies and levels could not happen to develop a common understanding on
improving service delivery and promoting initiatives crucial for sustainability, such as introduction of cost
sharing and client responsive working hours. The experiences in Hyderabad and Bangalore were mixed,
but mostly driven by some committed individuals.
(v) Exchange ratefluctuations generated additional rupee equivalent for the project: At project
preparation the rupee-dollar exchange rate was 26.2, while at closing this was close to 49. As a result, the
scope of the original project could be substantially expanded in the project states and a logistics pilot
introduced in two new states.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
i. Delayed GOI clearance affected timely take-off and implementation: The initial credit effectiveness was
delayed by about two years due to changes in federal government after negotiations; and two national
elections also delayed clearances for the expanded scope of the project following the MTR by about 18
months. Avoidance of such delays would be critical for the future Bank supported projects.
ii. Relocation and re- designation of slums made project implementation difficult: The coordination
between the project and the slum development wing of the municipalities was weak. This was particularly
evident in Delhi where the JJ Clusters were shifted without prior consultation with the project team. This
resulted in under-utilization of project facilities in some locations and created demand for new facilities in
relocated areas.
iii. Problem offunds flow slowed down implementation in Delhi and AP: The project funds were
channeled from GOI to the implementing municipality through respective state Finance Departments.
Funds flow problem was encountered in Delhi and Hyderabad in 1999-2000. GOI expeditiously resolved
this issue following its identification by the Bank's supervision mission. It channeled the resources directly
to the project account of Delhi and to the bank account of a society in AP, independent of the state Finance
Department.
iv. Bureaucratic procedures led to delayed staff appointment: Most of the municipalities had to depend on
line departments for provision of staff. Delhi had to appoint senior employees either through the Delhi
Government or through Union Public Service Commission, and depend on the neighboring states for the
appointment of Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs). As there was no District Medical Office in
Hyderabad, which has the mandate to recruit ANMs, the corporation used services of a manpower supply
company to engage them on contract. This has been recently addressed with the creation of district health
administration in Hyderabad. Kolkata also faced difficulty in getting adequate staff nurses for the post of
second tier supervisors and Bangalore had to depend on Director of Health Services to depute the staff
-10-



nurses.
v. Needfor better Referral linkages: The referral linkages with facilities managed by the municipal Health
Department were found to be inadequate despite having coordination committees at various levels. A good
effort was made in Hyderabad, where the program had better collaboration with the IDA-supported
Blindness Control and HIV/AIDs programs.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
i. Coordination among concerned agencies: In general, collaboration among different line departments
within municipalities, such as, slum development, education, integrated child development services, and
urban poverty alleviation programs, was not much evident. However, in Kolkata where local bodies played
an active role, the coordination was much better.
ii. Turnover of senior staff disrupted implementation: Frequent transfer of key officials affected the
implementation pace in Delhi (three Municipal Comrnissioners), and Hyderabad (12 Project Directors & 5
Joint Directors). Kolkata was the only city with continuity of the senior managers, which proved to be a
substantial advantage for the project.
iii. Insufficient delegation offinancial and administrative authority delayed implementation: In all the
project cities, there were delays at the initial stages for obtaining clearances for proposals and payment of
bills due to insufficient delegation to Project Director and complex administrative procedures. To a major
extent, all states started to address these problems by mid-term through the establishment of
weekly/monthly senior level reviews.
iv. Delayed implementation of Civil Works in Hyderabad due to absence of dedicated construction
agency: All project cities had dedicated construction wings. In Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Health
Medical Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation was appointed as procurement agent for civil
works and hence no dedicated wing was created.. As the implementation of the works program was
delayed, the engineering wing of the corporation, which had several other responsibilities, was subsequently
asked to implement the works program. This resulted in construction delays and inadequate monitoring.
v. Lack offamiliarity with Bank procedures resulted in slow implementation: Lack of familiarity with
Bank procedures, especially on procurement and financial management, initially delayed implementation,
despite regular interactions with the Bank staff and training given to project teams. Changes in key
mangers resulted in delayed procurement decisions. In UP, there was considerable delay in the award of
contracts in spite of appointing a dedicated procurement agent (HSCC).
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project was US$ 88.46million (as of November 5, 2002), compared with the SAR
estimate of US$96.08 million. Out of the total costs, IDA Credit contributed to US$ 73.28 million and the
rest was counterpart funding. Being a centrally sponsored project, GOI provided 90% of the counterpart
funds and the remaining 10% was provided by the respective states. In the case of the logistics component,
GOI provided for the entire counterpart financing.
In addition, it is worth mentioning here that MTR estimated savings of about US$38 million. This was
largely due to depreciation of the Indian Rupee against the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) and project
savings due to non-utilization of project preparation funds for new states.
- 11 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The sustainability of the project is rated as likely in both financial and institutional terms. On the
financing side, allocations were made in the FY 2003 budget by all the project cities to continue the
activities generated by the project. More important, these activities have been institutionalized and
integrated with the respective city municipal corporations and urban family welfare bureaus in Bangalore
and Hyderabad. On the institutional side, in Kolkata, the management has been decentralized to local
urban bodies, and the Chair Persons/Mayors of the 40 local bodies are now managing the program with
technical oversight from KMDA. Kolkata set up facility level Health Development Fund out of user fees -
including higher fees from those above the poverty line -- and contributions from the community. Following
this example, project teams in other cities are also exploring the options to generate additional resources in
partnership with representatives of local communities, NGOs and elected representatives of municipalities.
GOAP has assured the Bank that all contractual ANMs would be continued till regular staff are posted,
and that maternity homes built under the project would be fully staffed.
As there is no provision for cost recovery, sustainability in Delhi would depend entirely on government
funding. The house of Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) has passed resolution on October 23, 2002
to continue all staff positions created under the project including contractual staff and Basti Sevikas. In
addition, MCD has assured the Bank that all innovations started in the project would be sustained and
MCD would ensure that all amenities for the facilities built under the project would be provided.
Very high level political commitment by the State of West Bengal contributed substantially to institutional
sustainability of the project, as happened in the case of the earlier Bank-supported CUPD EII. This would
be worth emulating by other project states. Effective internalization of management practices in the Health
Departnents of city municipal corporations is expected to ensure institutional sustainability. For example,
Delhi has developed an excellent HMIS. Likewise, Bangalore has strengthened its network of urban health
centers and maternity homes, and has been able to sustain ISO 9002 certification for 30 health centers.
The trained community volunteers and other community based service providers should remain a permanent
resource, available to the poor slum dwellers beyond the life of the project. Different options have been
tried in the project to sustain these workers. The State Government in Kolkata has shown a strong
commitment to pay honorarium to these workers, while in Hyderabad one time group incentive was given to
link volunteers rather than a monthly honorarium. Bangalore phased out the payments to the link volunteers
once adequate demand is generated. The process of client empowerment and the health seeking behavior
generated by the project should also go a long way to facilitate sustainability. A unique contribution of the
project has been inscription of RCH and basic health care for the urban poor firmly on the community and
state political agenda. Within this premise, IPP 8, with appropriate adoption to suit local needs, is now
widely acclaimed as a good model for delivering affordable (both by government and urban poor) and
sustainable RCH services for vast urban slums around the country.
Sustainability of the interventions in the additional cities covered since the MTR should also be helped, if
pursued along above lines. As for the logistics support to two new states following the MTR, the outlook
appears optimistic since the activities are already integrated in the RCH program at the state level,
especially in Tanil Nadu.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
- 12-



Same as Sec. 6.1
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in
family welfare and child health in urban slums. The project's consistency with the government's
development priorities and the Bank's country assistance strategy was assured. In addition, the Bank also
covered in-depth sociological aspects and local issues while designing the project. With a harmonious team
of a good skill mix, it brought in state-of-the-art expertise into project design, providing for flexibility and
responsiveness to local needs. However, effectiveness delay remains an important set-back to the project
preparation.
Though no formal financial assessment was conducted during appraisal, issues relating to financial
management were tackled in a timely manner during implementation". During preparation and appraisal,
the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical,
financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement and financial management. In addition,
during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits. The Bank had a consistently good
working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal. Extensive stakeholder
consultations at community, metropolitan, state and national levels was highly productive, and initiated a
process of ownership that proved invaluable at the implementation stage.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. Over the eight years of project implementation, there were 17 supervision missions, with an
average of about two missions per year. In addition, the bank team undertook mini-missions and joint
reviews with state health systems projects. The Bank's client relationship was very cordial and productive.
Review teams included specialists in public health, social demography, management and institutional
issues, training and service delivery, IEC, MIS, civil works, logistics, financial management, and
procurement. External consultants were used for specific aspects of project components. Participation of
GOI, state and city representatives in the review missions enhanced Bank-Borrower bonding, and better
understanding and expeditious resolution of implementation bottlenecks. This also fostered mutual
education on institutional and field issues, and supportive learning on the part of the implementing agencies
in technical matters and Bank procedures.
Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and underscoring
benchmarks for actions. These alerted the government and the implementing agencies to problems with
project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The
Form 590s and PSRs realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of
development objectives and project implementation. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the
Bank Task Team was able to define concrete steps and timetable for putting the project back on track and
pace. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The quality of advice,
and the follow-up on agreed actions were adequate. Loan covenants and remedies were enforced
effectively.
- 13 -



With the decentralization of Bank functions to the Resident Mission in Delhi, the Bank could provide quick
response and follow-up. The staff also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in
implementation. They worked closely with the government and the implementing agencies, and provided
them with extensive assistance including technical advice. The Bank conducted workshops for the
municipalities at the early stages of implementation on specific subjects, such as procurement and
disbursement at the end of the project, a stakeholder workshop was conducted to share the experience of
the project.
The Bank partnered with USAID in the logistics component in UP, and provided hardware and built
warehouses. In addition, it collaborated with DFID for extending the project activities to other cities in
West Bengal.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank perfonnance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation. There was excellent coordination between the project team and all relevant sector and
operations units.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
displayed the required level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered the adequacy of
design and all major aspects, such as, technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
sociological factors, including stakeholder commitment. The government officials and staff of the
implementing agencies both at the central and state levels worked closely with the Bank's project team on a
continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The government implementation performance was satisfactory. It consistently maintained its
commitment throughout the implementation. However, delayed clearances for project effectiveness and
extension after mid term remain major shortfalls. MOHFW, which was responsible for the overall
implementation of the project, consisted of senior policy makers and experienced managers. They were
very responsive to take corrective implementation measures, and were effective in dealing with outstanding
operational issues. Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in place; financial
accountability and follow-up was observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before they were
incurred; and documentation was maintained properly for periodic review. MOHFW ensured smooth funds
flow to the implementing agencies, and fully collaborated with the Bank in setting up alternate mechanisms
required in certain instances. The project did not suffer from any counterpart funding problems, as GOI
took timely corrective measures and made appropriate budget provisions. Regular participation of
MOHFW and state level officials in the Bank's supervision missions reinforced confidence among the
implementing agencies and helped expeditious resolution of many issues, some instantaneously at the field
level itself.
The audit reports from participating entities were generally available on or just after the due date, and had
no major accountability issues. Small disallowances were noted by the auditor, which were recovered from
subsequent applications.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
- 14 -



Satisfactory. The performance of Area Projects Division of MOHFW, which coordinated the project, was
satisfactory. It provided proactive follow-up to mitigate implementation bottlenecks, especially when
funds flow problems were experienced in AP and Delhi. The Joint Secretary and Director visited the state
and helped in establishing alternative funds flow arrangements in AP (through society) and Delhi (direct
release to project savings accounts).
All projects had dedicated project management units with staff drawn from respective municipal
corporations except for Kolkata where the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) put up
a dedicated team from an earlier Bank supported project in the sector. Performance of the PMUs was
generally good. They were receptive to Bank advice, and highly collaborative with respect to meeting
demanding benchmarks and deadlines.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformnance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Institutional
* Minimizing effectivenss delays by obtaining all clearances in advance will be critical for future
projects.
*   Bringing health on to the local political agenda through decentralization, as happened very
effectively in Kolkata, is critical for sustained delivery of health care to the slum populations.
*   Long term engagement is needed both for building capacities of local municipalities and sensitizing
slum communities for effective delivery of health services and their use by the urban poor.
*   Factors that make a difference in enhancing access and demand for health services among the slum
dwellers include:
a) Neighborhood female community volunteers and local leaders acting as catalysts;
b) Use of the private practitioners to complement public health services through provider
incentives;
c) Client friendly services provided at convenient locations and times.
*   Cost sharing with adequate safe guards for the poor provides critical resources needed for sustaining
quality care. Retention of the user fees at the facilities help in local decisions.
*   There is no single solution to addressing Urban RCH issues, and the strategies need to be flexible
based on local needs and capacities.
*   Innovative schemes need to be better oriented to project development objectives and departments
implementing urban poverty reduction programs should be actively involved rather than the health
departnent taking up this responsibility.
* While designing urban primary care projects, the need to develop permanent infrastructure should
be carefully assessed, particularly in case of migratory populations like residents of JJClusters in
Delhi.
* In urban health, there are more opportunities for public sector to strategically partner with private
- 15 -



and NGO sectors as it has been done in Kolkata (Part time medical officers from private sector) and
in Andhra Pradesh (Service Delivery contracts with NGOs).
Technical
*   While RCH services are critical, the service package for the urban poor should include a
judicious mix of public health and curative care.
* Good referral linkages with facilities providing higher level care should be ensured, especially for
emergency obstetric care. Small stand-alone facilities like maternity homes are difficult to sustain.
*   While formulating targeted health interventions for the urban poor, reproductive health needs of the
males also need adequate attention.
Operational
*   Starting services early on even in makeshift facilities, and initiating demand generation activities will
minimize loss of precious project time due to preoccupation with infrastructure development activities.
*   Prioritizing behavior change initiatives to a focused set of interventions and strategic delivery of
messages based on sound communications research are critical for successful demand generation
activities.
*   Health interventions for the urban poor need better coordination with ongoing slum development
programs for addressing pressing problems of the slum dwellers, such as poverty alleviation and slum
improvement.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The report is well documnented & quite comprehensive covering all aspects relating to project right from
the planning stage to completion stage and contains all relevant information. The specific comments
are sent herewith for consideration/incorporation/modification
*      Page 9, para 1 point (a)- (c): have been mentioned in connection with the additional efforts during
the project preparation. These components can be effectively attempted only after the approval of the
project, establishment of project management units and after posting of requisite staff. In view of this,
(a)-(c) require suitable modification.
*      Page 9 para 4. 1. has rated the achievement of development objectives in new cities included after
the MTR as satisfactory. Considering the time available for the implementation of the project in these cities
and the fact that the service delivery started without waiting for the completion of construction of facilities
and improvement shown through the performance data in these additional cities, the performance for these
new cities should also be rated as highly satisfactory.
*      Page 10 last but 1 para mentions that the female community volunteer/local service providers
should remain a resource for the community much beyond the life of the project. In view of the fact that
these volunteers are paid out of the project funds during the project implementation period and taking into
account the resource constraints and other problems which may arise because of their continuation for a
- 16 -



longer period, it is opined that in projects implemented for about 7-8 years, efforts should be made to
ensure that by the end of the project, the projects are owned by the local community itself through phasing
out these volunteers during the project implementation. Other altemative mechanism may also be thought in
this regards.
*      Page 17. para 7.3. The Ministry has rated the Bank's performance as highly satisfactory in the
ICR. It is opined that the necessary modification may be considered
*      It is also felt that report should contain the latest financial achievements in-terms of costs and
actual expenditure (state-wise). As of 31, October 2002, the expenditures for which claims were filed was
estimated at Rs. 396.56 Crore.
*      The World Bank cumbersome procedures, particularly relating to procurement and civil works and
procedures required for approval is also one of the factor which also affected the project implementation
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/prnvate sector):
10. Additional Information
ICR Team:
G. N. V. Ramana (ICR- Task Team Leader)
Badrud Duza (Consultant)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
J. G. Sastry (Consultant)
Parul Chhabra (Consultant)
Agnelo Gomes (Team Assistant)
Peer Reviewers:
Ruth Levine
Elizabeth Laura Lule
- 17 -



Anninex 1. Key IPerformiinnace lfndlecatoirs/Log 1Frame Matri
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   :~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A ct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~~~~~~~I L at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s~~~~~~~~  E sti m a te~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A iu - m s ! F   m
(See Annex 10 (Performance Indicators)
Output Indicators:
See Annex 10 (Performance Indicators)
End of project
- 18-



Annex 2. 1Project Costs znd 1Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.Actual/Latest  Percentvge of
^ "; .'-' ', ais^G aJ o                   ;-i . I. E b3,.'' {,,~iz~rn4>r, '  " *_sustrriaL(; v-   ate. .  ppt'-aisal
Projecot 6Cs B CoMpo;en-a .&5       US$ milion -n'  US$ rinlion "'-
Increase supply of family welfare services        40.40          57.00         141.09
Improve quality of family welfare services         10.01         12.12         121.08
Increase demand for family welfare services         9.18          3.85          41.94
Management Improvement                             3.14           6.69         213.06
Innovative Schemes                                  7.76          2.69          34.66
Preparation of new projects                         8.00          6.11
Logistics Support                                   0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                78.49         88.46
Physical Contingencies                             5.94
PrlCS ContingencIes                               11.65                  .-
Total Project Costs            96.08          88.46
Total Financing Required            96.08          88.46
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.~y~r~ r Cate.ory  -B  .Procurement Method        ~     r .
Exp;Jri'VuiF. Category  ^I.c'a                                            7ThaD Cest
1. Works                    0.00         10.90         7.15        2.10         20.15
(0.00)       (9.80)       (6.40)       (0.00)      (16.20)
2. Goods                    2.00         20.10        10.60         0.00        32.70
(1.80)      (18.20)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (20.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        18.05         0.00        18.05
(0.00)       (0.00)       (9.28)       (0.00)      (9.28)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00        25.70        25.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (15.50)      (15.50)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. MIscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     2.00         31.00        35.80        27.80       96.60
(1.80)      (28.00)       (15.68)      (15.50)     (60.98)
19-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
*         .          - .  Procurement Method
Category  ics  ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   2N.B.F.              70h18~ COZ2
-:;.;av2>3."le Category  I C B   .     , NCR.       Other
1. WorIts                       0.00         37.32          4.22          0.00         41.54
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        1.15          9.23          8.91          0.00         19.29
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                     0.00          0.35          9.98          0.00         10.33
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. GMiscellaneous               0.00          0.03          17.26         0.00         17.29
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Misceflaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellansous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        1.15          46.93         40.37         0.00         88.45
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Theamounts financed by the IDA Credit were not separately available at the time of finalizing the ICR.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
.                            1 Perce"ta.gge L AS
Comp ne               Appraisal Estimate',        Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF      Bank       Govt     CoF.    3azA    GZV2 r  C>..
Increase supply of family  36.36  4.04                51.30     5.70              141.1  141.1
welfare services
Improve quality of family  9.01    1.00               9.70      2.43              107.7  243.0
welfare services
Increase demand for family  9.18  0.00                3.85      0.00              41.9    0.0
welfare services
Management Improvement   2.04     1.10                4.35      2.34              213.2  212.7
Innovative Schemes       7.76     0.00                2.69      0.00              34.7    0.0
Preparation of new       6.80     1.20                0.00      0.00               0.0    0.0
projects
Logistics Support        0.00     0.00                5.19      0.92               0.0    0.0
-20-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a)Missions:
stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count          Specialty                   Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
20/10/1991                6   MISSION LEADER (1)
ARCHITECT (1)
ECONOMIST (1)
MANAGEMENT (2) FINANCE
(1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/15/1992                6   ECONOMIST (1)
POPULTION (1)
LEGAL (1)
DISBURSEMENT (1)
LOAN (1)
ARCHITECT (1)
Supervision
05/22/1994                 7  POPULATION (1);                  S            S
ARCHITECT (1); EEC (1);
TRAINING (1);
PHYSICIAN (1);
MANAGEMENT (1);
FINANCE (1)
12/31/1994                6   ARCHITECT (2); MISSION           S            S
LEADER (1); TRAINING (2);
PHARMACEUTICALS (1)
11/17/1995                6   MISSION LEADER (1);              S            S
TRAINING (2); COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATI (1); SERVICE
DELIVERY (1); ARCHITECT
(1)
04/15/1996                 4  MISSION LEADER (1);              S            S
MANAGEMENT (1); SERVICE
DELIVERY (1); ARCHITECT
(1)
12/06/1996                3   MISSION LEADER (1);              S            S
COMMUNITY PARTIC (1);
CONSULTANT (1)
05/21/1997                 6  MISSION LEADER (1);              S            S
COMMUNITY PARTICIPANT
(1); IEC (1); TRAINING (1);
CIVIL WORKS (1);
MANAGEMENT (1)
11/17/1997                 7  MISSION LEADER (1); IEC (1);     S            S
TRAINING (2); CIVIL WORKS
(1); MANAGEMENT (1);
PROCUREMENT (1)
-22 -



12/17/1998              6  TEAM LEADER (1); MISSION     S           S
LEADER (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
SPEC. (1); NGO (1); CIVIL
WORKS (1); PROCUREMENT
(1)
02/18/1999             10   MISSION LEADER (1); TASK     S          S
LEADER (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
SPEC. (2); CONSULTANT (1);
ARCHITECT (1); FINANCIAL
MGT. (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
TEAM ASSISTANT (1); IEC (1)
12/15/1999              8  TEAM LEADER (1); PUBLIC       S          S
HEALTH SPLST. (2);
SRPUBLIC HEALTH SPLST
(1); CONSULTANT (4)
05/15/2000              9  TEAM LEADER- ECONOMIST        S          S
(1); PUBLIC HEALTH SPE. (2);
SR. PUBLIC HEALTH SPE. (1);
TRAINING (1); IEC & SOCLAL
MOBLI. (1); PROCUREMENT
(1); FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT (1); CIVIL
WORKS (1)
05/15/2000              9   MISSION LEADER (1); SR.      S           S
PUBLIC HLT SPEC (2); IEC &
SOCIAL MOBILIZAT (1);
CIVIL WORKS (1);
PROCUREMENT (1);
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
(1); TRAINING (1); TEAM
LEADER (1)
05/15/2000              4  MISSION LEADER (1); CIVIL     S           S
WORKS CONSULTANT (1);
TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
TRAINING CONSULTANT (1)
08/31/2001              5  MISSION LEADER (1); TEAM      S           s
ASSISTANT (1); CIVIL
WORKS CONSULTANT (1);
TRAINING CONSULTANT (1);
SOCIAL DEMOGRAPHY (1)
02/14/2002              5  MISSION LEADER (1);           S           S
CONSULTANT (3); TEAM
ASSISTANT (1)
ICR
06/27/2002              8   MISSION LEADER (1)
PUBLIC HEALTH(1)
PROCUREMENT(1)
FINANCE MGMT. (1)
-23-



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation           114.20                     261.40
Appraisal/Negotiation                 33.00                      96.20
Supervision                          309.39                     714.65
ICR                                    0.48                       9.30
Total                                457.07                    1081.55
-24-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
Fii Sector Policies                      OH   *SUOM       ON   O NA
Ol Physical                              OH *SUOM ON ONA
3 Financial                              OH OSUOM ON *NA
L Institutional Development              O H  O SU 0 M    O N   0 NA
LI Environmental                         O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction               O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
L Gender                          O H OSUOM ON ONA
M Other (Please specify)          O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
Partnership, Female volunteers,
Community leadership
L Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                  OH   *SUOM       ON   O NA
NGO Development
- 25-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
OI Lending                                        OHS OS       OU    OHU
Ol Supervision                                    OHS OS       OU    OHU
O-I Overall                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
El Preparation                                    OHS OS       OU    O HU
LGovernment implementation performance            OHS OS       OU    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance               O HS OS      O U   0 HU
LI Overall                                        OHS OS       O U   O HU
-26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bangalore
1.    Survey of Slums in Bangalore, Baseline Survey Volume I: Analytical Report (1992)
,STEM, Bangalore.
2.    Survey of Slums in Bangalore, Baseline Survey Volume II: Basic Tables (1992), STEM,
Bangalore.
3.    Project Statistics (1996-1997), MIES UNIT, IPP-VIII, Family Welfare (Urban Slums)
Project, Bangalore Mahanagar Palike, Bangalore.
4.    Multi-indicators study (1997), India Population Project-VIII, Bangalore Mahanagarpalike,
Center for Research in Health and Social Welfare Management, Bangalore.
5.    Mid-term Review, IPP VIII. Annexure (1998), Center for Research in Health and Social
Welfare Management, Bangalore.
6.    Project Review Status FY2001-2002 (July 2001-Dec 2001), Bangalore Mahanagar Palike,
Urban Health Research and Training Institute, Bangalore.
7.    Endline Survey Report, IPP-VIII, Bangalore (2002), Center for Research in Health and
Social Welfare Management, Bangalore.
8.    Endline Survey Report, IPP-VIII: Executive Summary (2002), Center for Research in
Health and Social Welfare Management, Bangalore.
9.    IDA-2394.IN, Final Implementation Completion Report (March 2002), The Family
Welfare (Urban Slums Project) IPP-VIII, Bangalore.
10.   Status Reportfor the Review Meeting (April, 2002), Family Welfare Urban Slums
(Population-VIII) Project, Govt. of Karnataka, Dept. of Health and Family Welfare.
11.   Endline Survey Report: Executive Summary (May 2000), IPP-VIII, Centre for Research
in Health and Social Welfare Management, Bangalore.
12.   IDA-2394.IN, Final Implementation Completion Report: IDA-2394.IN (May 2002, The
Family Welfare (Urban Slums Project) IPP-VII, Bangalore.
Delhi
1.    India Population Project VIII (Delhi): Pre-Project Studies - Baseline and Other Surveys
(1993),Departrnent of Pediatrics, Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi.
2.    Mid-term Review Reportfor IPP- VIII, Delhi (1998), Municipal Corporation of Delhi.
3.    Mid-term Review of IPP- VIII in Delhi: Organization and Management, Final Report
(1998), Operations Research Group, Delhi.
4.    Proposalfor Strengthening of Services of the Maternity Homes run by M.CD (1999),
Office of the Project Director, IPP-VIII, M.C.D., Delhi.
5.    Final Report on Documenting Innovations Under IPP- VIII Project in the Delhi Urban
Slums (June 2001), Asian Centre for Organisation Research and Development, New Delhi.
6.    Endline Survey of IPP- VIII, Draft Final Report, Delhi (June 2002), Faith Healthcare
(Private) Limited, New Delhi.
7.    Implementation Completion Report-IPP VIII (2002),Municipal Corporation of Delhi.
Hyderabad
-27-



1.    Report on Baseline Survey and Beneficiary Need Assessment Survey- IPP VIII (1993)
,Council for Social Development, Hyderabad.
2.    Report on Mid-term Review-IPP VIII (1998), Centre for Economic and Social Studies,
Hyderabad.
3.    Endline Evaluation Survey of Family Welfare Urban Slums Health (IPP VIII) Hyderabad
City (2002), Centre for Population and Development Studies, Hyderabad.
4.    Implementation Completion Report- IPP VIII (June 2002), Municipal Corporation of
Hyderabad.
Kolkata
1.    Baseline Survey Report JIntegrated Health Programme for Calcutta Metropolitan Area
(aPP VIII), Institute of Local Government and Urban Studies, Govt. of West Bengal.
2.    Mid-term Review Report of health Facilities under IPP- VIII, Calcutta : Final Report.
3.    Endline Survey Report, IPP- VIII, Kolkata (2002), Society for Socio-Economic studies
and Services (SSESS), Kolkata.
4.    Implementation Completion Report of IPP- VIII, Kolkata (2002), KMDA- Kolkata.
5.    Reply to Bench Marks ofAide Memoire and ICR of the Project (2002), IPP- VIII, Kolkata
by KMDA.
6.    A Successful Project (2002): IPP VIII, Kolkata by KMDA.
Additional Cities
1.    IDA-2394, IN Implementation Completion Report: Family Welfare Urban
Slums(Population-VIII) Project (Extended 11 cities), (August 2002), Govt. of Karnataka.
2.    Status Report for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), Family Welfare Urban
Slums Project (IPP-VIII)Meeting on 25th and 26th June 2002 at New Delhi by Govt. of
Karnataka, Dept. of Health and Family Welfare.
3.    Comprehensive Documentation for Drug Logistics and Warehousing (Sept 2002),
Tamilnadu Medical Services Corporation Limited, Chenmai.
4.    Coverage Evaluation Survey on Immunization: IPP- VIII Extn. West Bengal (2002)
,Economic Information Technology, Kolkata.
5.    Project Review Status, IPP-VIII -(Extn), 10 Additional Cities in West Bengal (April
2002), SUDA (Health Wing).
Others
1.    Staff Appraisal Report: India, Document of the World Bank, Report no. 10548-IN, (May
1992), Family Welfare(Urban Slums) Project.
2.    Endline Survey Report(Draft Report), IPP-VIII, (July 2002), Institute of Research in
Medical Statistics (ICMR), New Delhi.
-28-



Additional Annex 8. [Innovative Schemes]
Innovative Schemes
Bangalore                     Delhi                Hyderabad             Kolkata
*  337 Social Health &    * 798 Women's groups were    * 8324 Link        *  12,000 Women
Environment clubs         contacted/formed             Volunteers         received vocational
established in 415 slums                               enlisted and       traming ( 6-months)
* 5,460 adolescent girls Females  trained
*   1075 Children in creches  were given vocational training              * 2,175 Women attended
established in slums      in beauty culture, cutting and  * 792           entrepreneurship
tailoring, bindi making, home  Women's Health   development training
*   1680 Adolescent girls     management, soft toy making  Groups
received vocational training  and jute products.       established     * 15 Industrial women
in zari and embroidery                                                    co-operative societies
work, 41 in tailoring and  * 54% of trained adolescents could m 792       formed
knitting,. 40 in radio and  obtain A+ or A grades m their  Revolving Funds
T.V repair, and 29 in use o  skill training courses;   for women created *  19,650 adolescent
computers                                                                 girls and young
* 50% trained in beauty culture  * 1,230 Thrift     women from poor
*  31 centers for non-formal  had gainful employment       groups established  families received
education centers of school                                               reproductive health
dropouts supported                                  * 13,700 Adolescent   education
girls given health
*   190 Clean hut competitions                             and nutrition  * 7,596 Young women
held                                                   education          trained under
reproductive health
* 102       Play      education
schools
established and  * 297 Girl's schools
3060girls (3-5     renovated and
Yrs) enrolled      repaired
* 135       Open   *  10 Municipalities
schools            have set up
established and    Geographical
4,000 school       Information System
dropouts ( girls of
11 yrs and above)
were enrolled
* 3000 Adolescent
girls given
vocational
training
* 10 Govt. girls
schools provided
with basic sanil
facilities
-29 -



-30 -



Additional Annex 9. [Borrower's Evaluation Report]
I.     BACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION
Area development projects have been taken up under the National Family Welfare Programnme with
financial assistance from extemal funding agencies in different States with a view to increase outreach and
coverage, while aiming to bring about reduction in maternal and child mortality and morbidity, in birth rate
and increase in the couple protection rate. These projects have contributed greatly towards the development
of the physical infra-structural facilities in the project states, and improved the quality of health and family
welfare services to the people. The projects have also been instrumental in bringing down the birth rate,
death rate, infant mortality rate and increase in couple protection rate.
The World Bank assisted Eighth India Population Project (IPP-VIII) was originally approved for
implementation in four Metropolitan cities viz Bangalore, Kolkata, Delhi and Hyderabad for improvement
of health and family welfare status of urban slum population in these cities for a period of five years from
August 1993 at a total cost of Rs. 223.37 crores. The project was approved by the World Bank for a credit
of SDR 57.70 million. After the mid-term review conducted in 1998, the project was restructured to (a)
expand activities in the 4 project cities; (b) expand activities to 94 smaller towns covering a population of
about 4 million in the States of Andhra Pradeh, Karnataka and West Bengal and (c) strengthen logistic
system in the States of Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh (now Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal). In order to
utilize the additional money which became available due to exchange rate variation and to complete the
approved activities, the project-cost was revised twice and finally to Rs.429.40 crores and the coverage
expanded and extended as mentioned above. The project finally came to an end on the 30th June 2002.
This project was the Second World Bank assisted Population Project in India to provide integrated
health and family services to urban population and strengthen linkages between family welfare services
and other interventions. The project targeted assistance to most vulnerable of about 11.35 million urban
slums/poor population in the 4 metro cities and 94 medium sized small towns/cities. The IPP-VIII in Delhi
catered to 12.50 lakh people living in 929 JJ clusters; in Kolkata it covered 40 ULB, 3 Municipal
corporation (37 municipalities) and benefited about 37.13 lakhs people living in both sides of the Hooghly;
in Hyderabad it was meant for 12.13 lakh population in 793 slums and in Bangalore 8.51 lakh population
living in 525 slums. Under additional city component, it covered a population of 28.55 lakh in 74 Band C
class municipalities of Andhra Pradesh; 5.96 lakh in 11 towns/cities of Karnataka and 8.67 lakh
population in 10 towns of West Bengal.
The project design was based on a mix of successfil local experiences from the National Program
on Urban Basic Services for the poor, IDA assisted Calcutta Urban Development Project-IH and IDA
supported Fifti India Population Project (IPP-V) implemented in the cities of Bombay and Madras and
recommendations of the Krishnan Committee.
As the project was directly under the administrative control of the respective
municipalities/municipal corporations, the project was implemented by the project management units
headed by Project Director with the assistance of Program Officers, technical and administrative staff in
the four metro cities. The Project Directors were delegated appropriate administrative and financial powers
for smooth administration and implementation of the project. In addition to this, all the States had high
powered advisory/empowered committees under the chairmanship of Chief Secretaries with high level
representation from all the Stake holders/concemed departments to review the progress of implementation
of the project and to approve the action plan, project level advisory/implementation/monitoring committees
- 31 -



under the chairmanship of Secretary (FW)/Commissioner There were also purchase committees in each
project to process the procurement activities of the project.
To assess the impact of the project the end-line surveys were conducted in all the four cities by
independent agencies. IRMS was appointed as the nodal agency by GOI.
II.    GOAL AND OBJECTIVES
The goal of IPP-VIII was to attain Health for all by 2000 A.D to achieve Net Reproductive Rate as
unity with optimal fertility regulation and to improve the probability of survival of mothers and children.
To attain this goal, the following specific objectives were set:
A.     To strengthen the existing matemal and child health care services so as to reduce infant, child and
matemal mortality rates in urban slums.
B.     To reduce fertility level and pattem among the slum population.
The following broad strategies were adopted for achievement of the above-mentioned goals and
objectives.
m.     STRATEGIES ADOPTED UNDER IPP-VIII
The project had adopted five broad strategies to achieve the desired goals
1.     Expand the health and family welfare service delivery system to slum population by constructions
of additional facilities near the slums, up-gradation of existing facilities, provision of need-based services
and introducing appropriate area specific ways of service delivery, furnishing and equipping the health
facilities with equipment and drug;
2.    Increase the demand for family welfare services through (a) an expanded program of information,
education and communication (b) increased participation of non-govemmental /private voluntary
organization, private medical practitioners, medical colleges and the community in the family welfare
programme;
3.    Improve the quality of family welfare services being provided to the slums. It was planned to (a)
provide supervisory, managerial, technical and inter-personal skills to all levels of health functionaries
through pre-service, in service and on the job training and (b) Establish and upgrade facilities available for
training in the four cities.
4.     Strengthen the Management Information System and Project Management structure.
5.     Inplement innovative schemes for improving not only quality of health services but also quality of
life. This included community based contraceptive depots, service delivery through NGOs in under served
areas, formation of health advisory committees, creches, vocational taining programme, payment for
services availed by non-beneficiaries, etc.
- 32 -



IV.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overall Achievement:
The precise impact of the project should be viewed in a much longer time frame than during the
project implementation period, particularly in the new town/cities where project implementation started
only in January 2000 and most of the facilities have been completed in the recent past. However, the
objectives have been achieved very satisfactorily in all the 4 cities showing a significant reduction in
maternal and infant mortality rates and fertility rates at the end of the project as compared to the baseline
survey. Even in the additional cities, most of the activities envisaged have been completed within the
project period. The additional 94 cities/towns of Karnataka, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have been
exhibiting promising results in the attainment of development objectives. The assessment in the report is
based on the input and process indicators supplemented by outcome indicators based on the data available
from the Baseline survey, Mid-term review, End-line survey and Performance Reports from the States.
The project achieved its development objectives as could be seen from the summary sheet at
Annexure-I relating to some important process and impact indicators. The project has paved the way for
improving and enhancing quality of service delivery and care in family welfare and MCH to the urban poor
particularly urban slums in the identified cities/towns.
The experience of IPP-VIII will be used in formulation of Urban Health project and to develop
guidelines/operational models for Urban Health Programs particularly in the slum area for nation-wide
replication with suitable area specific modifications. This project provided an opportunity to urban slum
communities to participate and deternine the type of services required as per their felt needs. The project
conferred direct social benefits by increasing access to quality, family planning and MCH services; thereby
it promoted a decline in fertility, morbidity and mortality among mothers, infants and children. It also
provided for affordable and accessible health services not only by having facilities at location convenient to
the community, but also through a band of dedicated extension health workers.
For effective management of urban health facilities, IPP-VIII had developed health management
information system. Capacity building of health sector personnel was undertaken to ensure quality of
services to the beneficiaries. LACI was used as a project management tool for facilitating decision-making.
The project has, thus created a rich pool of managerial and technical skilled health personnel within the
urban public health system. The project was able to enhance the demand for MCH services by involving
motivated grass-root level workers in IEC activities.
The experiences gained, lesson learnt and factors which affected the implementation of this project
are being used to design future Urban Health Programs which is one of the thrust areas under the Tenth
Five Year Plan, National Population Policy, 2000, National Health Policy, 2002 and Reproductive and
Child Health Program Phase-Il.
The component-wise achievements are summarized as under:-
Expanding the Health & Family Welfare Service Delivery System
As stated earlier, the goal of IPP-VIII was to provide integrated health and family welfare services
to urban poor, particularly those living in the slums. Keeping in view the health needs of this section of the
urban population, city specific service delivery models were operationalized. Each of the service delivery
- 33 -



models envisage construction of new health facilities, upgradation/renovation of existing facilities,
provision of need based services through area specific ways of service delivery and to make them
operational by providing furniture, equipments, drugs and other incidentals for functioning of the facilities.
Under the project, a total of 1052 new facilities (excluding 25 warehouses in UP and TN) were constructed
and 643 facilities were upgraded/renovated. The new constructions inter-alia included 311 health centres,
165 health posts, 47 maternity homes/centres, 114 sub-centres, 107 health administrative units, 25
ESOPDs in four cities of Kolkata, Hyderabad, Delhi and Bangalore and 94 additional cities of Andhra
Pradesh, West Bengal and Karnataka. Under the logistic improvement component a total of 25 regional
warehouses were constructed in the States of UP and Tamil Nadu. The city/state-wise status of the
facilities/warehouses constructed is given in Annexure-II.
Since the facilities were constructed in phases, most of the cities/States established the facilities
and made them functional from rented buildings by posting the requisite staff and providing furniture,
equipments etc. The construction of above facilities improved the access and ensured provision of quality
services. The construction of the facilities enhanced the working environment of the outreach workers by
providing health facility from where they could operate, maintain stores and records and conduct clinical
sessions. Similarly, the add- on OTs and construction of maternity homes improved institutional deliveries
in all the cities and also attended to essential and emergency obstetric care.
New facilities and a large number of existing facilities were fully equipped and furnished and were
provided with essential supplies ranging from daily consumables to the sophisticated equipments. At the
end of the project, all the facilities were operational and were providing outreach and clinical services to the
targeted population.
As regards the utilization of funds, of the total expenditure of Rs.377.04 crores reported so far, the
expenditure on civil works and equipments were estimated at Rs.165.71 crores (43.95%) and Rs. 84.93
crores (22.52%) respectively. Thus it is seen that this component consumed about 66.47% of the total
expenditure. The proportion of expenditure on civil works varied in all the four metro cities. The city-wise
proportion of expenditure on civil works to total expenditure in Delhi, Bangalore, Kolkata and Hyderabad
were 38.7%, 47.7%, 30.1% and 27.7% respectively. In order to strengthen service delivery, it is vital to
improve access of the community to service facilities and also expand the outreach services to the remote
and inaccessible parts of the service area. In this context, it may be seen that the outreach services in all
cities left significant impacts in beneficiary coverage as well as indicator movements. One lesson learnt
from this project is that investment in hardware components is justified only when spent on essential
constructions. It is more important to concentrate on actual service delivery from accessible and user
friendly facilities which should be sustainable from the provider point of view. Another lesson learnt from
IPP-VIII is that that the operational maintenance issues pose a concem for all State Govemments. Hence,
low cost innovations both from construction and maintenance point of view may be explored from the very
beginning of the project. Another lesson leamt is that when the beneficiary population is essentially
migratory or floating in nature as in the case of Delhi slums, investment in permanent constructions should
be minimized and operationalisation of facilities in rented buildings could be a feasible option. One of the
possible innovations could be to establish the facilities without actual construction of new facilities and get
them operationalised through NGOstNursing Homes/Corporate bodies. Under the additional cities
component of IPP-VIII, the State of Andhra Pradesh experimented with one such innovation where health
centres were constructed but operationalized through NGOs. This experiment has functioned successfully
at reduced cost as compared to operationalization of similar facilities in the Govemment sector.
Over view of the civil works showed that it was only after 1995 that the civil work component
geared up in all the four cities. Finding a suitable site to construct the health facility as per the norms set by
-34-



the World Bank was a common problem faced by project implementers which delayed the civil works.
Inadequate fund flow mechanism delayed project implementation in the beginning, though later it was
rectified to expedite the project implementation. Further, World Bank procedures were not always
commensurate with local government procedures, which further delayed commencing of construction work.
In Delhi, to meet the health needs of urban poor, the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD)
constructed three levels of health facilities, i.e., Maternity Homes-cum-Health Centre (6), Health Centres
(21) and Health Posts (105). Since it was difficult to get space for the rest of the HPs, some of the health
facilities were constructed a little far away from the slum pocket. Moreover, shifting of slums to different
places in future would affect utilization of the constructed health facilities.
In Bangalore, 55 HCs, 5 MHs, 1 training centre, 5 staff quarters attached to new MHs were
newly constructed. All the facilities are operational. For the first time in India, Bangalore has obtained
ISO 9002 certificate for 30 Health Centres in the public sector.
In Kolkata, all the targeted civil works were completed and made functional (construction of 114
sub-centres, 107 HAUs, 23 Maternity homes, 25 ESOPDs, 8 Regional Diagnostics Centres, central
medical store and improvement of 300 govt. run schools, renovation of 159 existing SC).
In Hyderabad, 25 HPs, 5 Maternity Homes, 3 staff quarters were newly constructed, In
Hyderabad, it was only after 1997-98 that construction work picked up momentum.
Quality of civil works was reported well and as per the norms set by the World Bank. However,
examination of sampled health facilities revealed certain defects. Disposal of solid waste was a problem in
all the cities, except Kolkata. A few of the sampled facilities visited during end line survey had some
problems of seepage, cracks and leakage in the building, incomplete compound wall or with newly
developed cracks. This calls for appropriate measures to ensure proper maintenance of the building.
Most of the surveyed health facilities were located at practically appropriate places with respect to
accessibility, service to community and safety of the staff using the building in all the cities. However, it
was noticed that  a few health facilities in Delhi, Bangalore and Hyderabad were constructed a little
distance away from the slum area due to non-availability of land near the slums. The utilization of such
facilities by target groups is less than expected.
Human Resources/ Staff Position
The over-all situation about staff availability was satisfactory at the end of the project in all the
cities, except Delhi In Hyderabad, all sanctioned positions was filled either with regular staff or
contractual staff. In Kolkata all the sanctioned PTMOs was on contract basis and vacant posts were found
in all levels of health facilities. While, in Bangalore, most of the ANMs were deputed from City municipal
Corporation/State government and 11 were freshly recruited. The gross root level workers comprised 970
link volunteers in Bangalore, 544 Basti Sevikas in Delhi, 8324 link volunteers in Hyderabad and 3713
honorary health workers in Kolkata. There was a clear appreciation for the work done by the grass-root
level workers for spearheading the IPP-VIII.
As significant numbers of health functionaries were appointed on contract basis through placement
agencies in Hyderabad, the commitment to provide quality of care on sustainable basis was questionable.
Similarly in Kolkata, some of the sanctioned posts could not be filled up as remuneration was low in
relation to qualification or duty hours. Therefore, this issue needs to be examined further by policy makers.
-35-



The total expenditure on equipment so far is Rs. 84.93 crores which is 22.52% of the total
expenditure, The purchase in the Project for equipment, medicines and supplies was done through a Project
Purchase Committee, which met as per need. The End-line Survey shows that all equipments were in place
in almost all the health facilities by the time of end line survey. Supply of drugs and Medicines was good in
general and procurement was timely. Majority of the respondents were satisfied with the services provided
by IPP-VIII facilities.
Improvement of Quality of Family Welfare Services
The IPP-VIII Project envisaged to upgrade the supervisory, managerial, technical and
inter-personnel skills of all levels of new and existing medical and para-medical personnel through
pre-service, in service and on the job training and by increasing the availability of drugs, medicines and
other appropriate health supplies. The training component was carried "out as planned and this
contributed significantly to the achievement of the project objectives. The training cells created in the cities
helped to focus on all types of trainings with equal importance. They also did well to draw in training
associated with national programs viz. RCH Program. The project also oriented grass root level workers,
conununity stakeholders/leaders and adolescents. At the end of the project, a total of 34236 no. of
personnel (20288 Kolkata, 7035 in Hyderabad 2327 in Delhi and 4586 in Bangalore) were imparted
training in the original 4 cities. The personnel included medical personnel, para-medical personnel, link
volunteers, private medical practitioners, NGOs, local leaders, Aaganwari workers, teachers, municipal
leaders, dais etc. Majority of the trainees appreciated the training program as it has contributed towards
improvement in their knowledge. Therefore, the project has improved the knowledge of health personnel,
which would go a long way to improve service delivery, bring down the fertility levels and reduce the level
of infant morbidity and mortality in slum population.
All the four cities, refresher courses/specialized trainings for the staff were involved in the
implementation, right from the PUM staff to grass-root level workers to the community. The project
managers received training on various aspects like procurement, quality improvement, LACI etc. Linkages
were established with different Institutions by IPP-VIII and most of the training targets were achieved.
Over thirteen thousand (13,207) health functionaries were trained on various aspects of RCH services at
the end of the project.
In Delhi, a separate training cell was established to cater to the training needs of all categories of
employees. The training included orientation, refresher, skilled based, managerial and IPC. For this
purpose, the cell developed linkages with premier institutes like NIHFW, AIMS, IIPA, various hospitals
and Delhi Government. This cell now has a well developed training hall. Due to good quality work, the
training cell of IPP8 has now been given the responsibility of conducting RCH training for various
categories of staff of MCD and Delhi Government in association with NWIFW.
In Bangalore, improvement of quality of family welfare services was continuously effected by
graded placement of adequately trained and motivated staff. They were also supplied with equipments and
other items for upgrading the service capacity of health centres and maternity homes. Further standard
management protocol for processes and treatment were prepared and issued. A new training centre with 4
seminar houses, 7 group discussion rooms, residential block and provision of audio-visual ads was also
constructed. This training centre is likely to be registered as an autonomous institute.
In Kolkata, local private practitioners were recruited and trained in clinical skills, including IUD
insertions. The first & second tier supervisors underwent 30 days training on supervision, administration
- 36 -



and record keeping. The HHWs were given training on campaigning on health awareness, family planning,
nutrition and sanitation. Vocational training courses were organized to generate appropriate skills and for
creating income opporunity among women in poor household. The trainees were given tool kits to carry
on their job after training for gainful employment. Innovative program on reproductive health education for
the adolescent girls and young women was also taken up and the 5 days training courses were conducted by
lady professionals in all the municipalities benefiting about 19450 such beneficiaries.
In Hyderabad, a training wing was established. After assessment of the training needs, the training
plans were modified and revised action plans were prepared for training program. Medical officers posted
in newly constructed UHPs were given induction training program. The training imparted inter-alia
included family welfare service management and supervision, safe deliveries, abortion, MTP and diagnosis
and management of RTI, STI & HIV.
Strengthening of Demand Generation Activities
The project envisaged achieving this objective by promoting information, education,
communication through an expanded program with increased participation of NGOs, private medical
practitioners, medical colleges and the community in the family welfare program. Appropriate activities
were carried out in all the implementing cities/States. All the 4 project cities had dedicated IEC wings.
Initiating the project with number of messages and multiple media, the focus was gradually shifted to
interpersonal communication and rationalization of activities. Workshop were also organized from time to
time to refocus the IEC activities on specific behavior change linked to the project development objectives.
The key areas of behavior change were, however, focused on limited activities such as early ante-natal
registration, measles immunization, safe deliveries, use of contraceptives, spacing methods and age at
marriage.
All project cities used community based workers/volunteers as effective links with communities to
bring about behavior change. Increased community participation and involvement of Private medical
practitioners, NGO's, Anganwadi workers and grass-root level workers (Link workers in Bangalore, Bastee
Sevikas in Delhi, Link Volunteers in Hyderabad and HHWs in Kolkata) helped in creating a demand for
preventive health and family welfare services. The staff involved in IEC was trained in IEC activities. All
together, 4307 elected representatives were sensitized about reproductive health issues and about 25000
adolescents given education on reproductive health. Discussion during End-line Survey with PMU staff,
Health functionaries and beneficiaries revealed that the IEC activities let to increase in the utilization of
MCH services in all the cities.
NGOs' participation was also very active in all the cities to carry out IEC activities for creating
demand. In Hyderabad the media was used for showing video films. The other activities inter-alia included
banners, puppet shows, street plays and cultural programmes for dissemination of health and family
welfare messages. Hyderabad organized a total of 1432 video film shows, 292 puppet shows and 100 street
plays/cultural programs. In addition 12 hoardings were erected at prominent places in the city covering
various messages on FW and RCH.
In Kolkata, the message, dissemination method and media were suitably adopted and regularly
revised. It was found that messages disseminated through entertainment media such as Folk songs, Drama,
Magic Show, etc., played effective role in bringing forth changes in attitude and behaviour. However, most
important media of behavioural change was interpersonal communication, especially through HHWs.
In Delhi, video films, puppet shows, street plays, group meeting, magic shows, competition amnong
- 37 -



HCs to meet targets and ranking of ANMs and Bastesevika contributed success to LEC activities. IEC was
effective in increasing utilization of ANC services. Delhi organized 10645 meetings with mahila mandal,
mother-in-laws and adolescent girls. 10329 health talks were organized at school and folk media were
effectively used and behavior changes were closely monitored.
In Bangalore, the media used was films, folk media, exhibition and integration them with health
check ups, clean hut competition, well baby shows and creches. Bangalore has implemented an LEC pilot
in one of its target slums and expanded its demand generation activities based on the lessons learnt. During
the project period of 623 folk media programs and 4212 video screening were undertaken.
Strengthening management and administration of Municipal Health Department
The decentralized system of management for effective implementation of the project activities was
a unique feature of this project. All the 4 cities had apex level committees viz. State level empowered
committee viz. State level Empowered/Goveming Council committees under the chaimmanship of Chief
Secretary with high level representation from all the stakeholders/concemed departments to oversee the
implementation, approve action plan and budget etc., project level advisory/implementation/monitoring
committees under the chairmanship of Secretary (FW)/Commissioner, purchase committees and various
other local bodies. These committees facilitated the fast implementation and ensured coordination among
various concerned departments and organizations. In Kolkata, various local level communities viz. local
coordination committee in each municipality headed by Chairman/Mayor, Ward Committee headed by local
councilor and Outreach Committee also helped in smooth implementation, monitoring and supervision of
the project activities. Different wings were created for managing the various project activities. The project
management units were assisted by various consultants, appointed from time to time as per the needs. To
facilitate smooth implementation, all the Project Directors were also delegated some financial and
administrative powers.
The funds flow to the municipalities was through the State Finance Department. This system
worked well except in the cities of Delhi and Hyderabad for a certain period of time. The issue was
addressed and the fund flow mechanism was strengthened expeditiously by releasing funds direct to the
Municipal Corporation of Delhi and to the State level society in Andhra Pradesh.
Each city also established a monitoring mechanism which was linked through CNA network of
reporting of the State Government. MIS was used as a tool for strategic decisions such as graded user fee,
grading of health institutions, planning service delivery activities, IEC campaigns, preparation of project
action plans, monitoring the performance and impact. The project also had the distinction of being able to
successfully implement Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) a pilot project for computerized
management of physical and financial progress through software based system in all the 4 cities. Besides,
Kolkata also used Geographical Information System for validation of performance data, completeness and
regularity of reporting.
Innovative Schemes and NGO Participation
The private and voluntary sector which was given a key role in project implementation contributed
significantly in meeting the project objectives. In all the four cities, innovative schemes were implemented
with the view of instituting long lasting effect on socio-economic and demographic behaviour of vulnerable
section of urban population. The major activities undertaken inter-alia included (i) partnership with private
medical officers and specialist in service delivery at a lesser cost; (ii) vocational training and
entrepreneurship program to generate appropriate skills and create income opportunities for women; (iii)
- 38 -



reproductive health education for adolescent girls, young women and boys; (iv) Geographical information
system to strengthen the validation of performance data, completeness and regularity of reporting; (v)
laboratory quality assurance system (vi) hospital waste management system; (vii) fund generation system
through development of health development fund; (viii) running of health centres by PVOs; (ix) running of
creches, play schools, open schools and non formal schools, nutrition education for girls; (x) health camps
etc. The services of 77 NGOs/PVOs were used to implement innovative schemes in 4 project cities. Table
3 shows a profile of important innovative schemes undertaken in the 4 cities.
A participatory approach was adopted for involvement of community, NGOs and private sector in
the project. Some of the NGOs were given autonomous control over project areas and not activity based
projects. The project continuously interacted with NGOs and other partners and monitored their activities
in a participating manner before launching new schemes, the coordinators of the NGOs were also trained
by the project to achieve desired results. Through the NGOs, the community was also taken into
confidence to implement the program.
Kolkata had the distinction of implementing the program by establishing an effective partnership of
private medical officer and specialists on a part time and fees sharing basis in different level of health
infrastructure resulted in lesser cost ensuring community participation and enhancing the scope of fund
generation. The fund generation system through Health Development Fund is also another important
scheme undertaken to ensure sustainability to continue health program after the completion of the project
period.
Andhra Pradesh has the unique distinction of experimentation by completely outsourcing the
service delivery to NGOs in newly created 191 Uban Health Posts in 73 towns. The experimentation of
outsourcing service delivery to NGOs in 191 UHPs have been quite satisfactory with reduced cost.
In Bangalore, some NGOs provided sites for construction of Health Centres. The PVOs were also
involved in service delivery by running the Health Centres.
In Delhi, the community involvement was achieved through initiatives like involvement of
Bastisevikas, formation of various community groups, specific training to community leaders and private
medical practitioners.
Improved Contraceptive and maternal and Child Health Supply Logistics in Tamil Nadu and
Uttar Pradesh including Uttaranchal
Under the Project 24 regional warehouses (11 in Tamil Nadu, 11 in UP and 3 in Uttaranchal
Pradesh) have been constructed and are operational now. All the warehouses have been equipped with
modem storage equipments and computers for the purpose of monitoring. Tamil Nadu has fully
implemented pharmaceutical Logistic Management Information System (LMIS) in all the newly built
warehouses. In UP, USAID is supporting the software activities including training and development of
LMIS. The Government of India will provide requisite assistance to meet the recurring liabilities of these
warehouses after the completion of the project period.
V.     PROJECT COST AND EXPENDITURE
As mentioned earlier, the originally approved cost for the four cities of Kolkatta, Bangalore,
Hyderabad and Delhi was Rs. 223.37 Crores for the period August 93-98. After the mid-term review in
- 39-



1998, the project was restructured. It was expanded and extended to 94 additional cities of Andhra
Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal and for logistics support to Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. The project
cost was finally revised to Rs.429.40 crores and the project implementation period extended upto June,
2002. The States have submitted claims for Rs.377.04 crores expenditure so far. The likely expenditure
upto the end of the project is estimated at Rs.420.47crores.
The Cost analysis of the expenditure city-wise and component wise (civil works, equipment,
training/ consultants/innovative programme and incremental operating cost) are given in Tables 4 and 5.
The trend of the expenditure shows that in almost all the cities, expenditure received momentum by the end
of 1998. This could be due to initial time spent on preparatory activities relating to implementation of the
project activities such as filling up of the posts, formation of various committees, selection of sites and land
acquisition for various facilities, preparation of plan for civil works and procurement, identification of
agencies to carry out civil work and procurement etc.
Of the total expenditure of Rs.377.04 crores reported so far, the expenditure on civil work,
equipment, consultants service and training and incremental operating cost are Rs. 165.71 crores
(43.95%,), Rs. 84.93 crores (22.52%), Rs.37.32 crores (9.89%) Rs.89.07 crores (23.62%) respectively.
Analysis of expenditure pattern under different components in four metro cities shows that Bangalore,
Hyderabad, Kolkata & Delhi incurred 47.7%, 27.7%, 30% & 38.7% respectively of its approved budget
on civil works
BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The project design was consistent with World Bank's strategy and Government policy and was
appropriate for achieving the stated objectives. Overall bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory.
The supervision missions from August 1993 to June 2002 at least twice a year helped States in taking
remedial action, modifying their plans as and when required and realistic monitoring of the project
activities. Initially, the decision makings of the bank relating to the project were being taken by the World
Bank management at their headquarter at Washington DC which sometimes led to delay in certain
approvals. After the Mid-term review, significant decision making was made at the level of the World
Bank country office at Delhi which helped in prompt decisions and consequent implementation of activities.
This also facilitated continuous dialogue and consultation between the Project Director and the Task leader
and other staff of the Bank which greatly helped the project. The entire team from the World Bank was
supportive. The project was also benefited by visits by World Bank technical experts from Public Health,
MIES, procurement, civil works, training and IEC.
SUSTAINABILITY
The effectiveness of a project depends largely on the institutional and financial sustainability of
the project activities after donor funding has ceased to be in place. It is also a reality that Urban Municipal
Corporations and Urban local bodies face resource constraints particularly in the area of operation and
maintenance of their assets. Under IPP-VIII institutional sustainability has been ensured through (a)
establishing community ownership; (b) securing effective partnership with the private sector and NGOs;
(c) establishing accessible service outlets; (d) having a permanent source of health functionaries; (e) placing
a system of effective monitoring of field perfonnance; (f) placing health as a priority item in the community
agenda. The fnancial sustainability has been ensured through (a) identifying women and child health as
priority investment at the community level; (b) building assets with low operational costs; (c) generating/
building up strong commitments of urban local bodies to generate funding from service delivery and local
resources and (d) creation of supplementary sources of funding through cost sharing with beneficiaries and
-40-



fast recoveries from non-beneficiaries. In this context, certain innovations were introduced by the project
cities contemplating the implications of sustainability well before the end of the project. Some of the
sustainability practices which were introduced/adopted by the project cities are as follows:-
IPP 8 Kolkatta had agreed to provide for the recurring charges through the provision in the state budget of
the Municipal Affairs Department. This, of course, would only take care of the salaries, honorarium, rent
and drug supplies for the project activities. To attend to the wear and tear of the assets such as buildings,
equipments and furniture, this project city had provided for the levy of service charges in a cross subsidy
basis and user charges to build a Health Development Fund with the Urban Local bodies for utilization
after the expiry of the project period.
In Delhi, the irnplementing agency viz. MCD has in principle agreed to support project
management and services. In case of Hyderabad and Bangalore, the project activities have been
integrated with the respective city Municipal Corporations and Urban Family Welfare Bureaus. In case of
Hyderabad, the Government of Andhra Pradesh will bear the expenditure towards salary portion and the
Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad the expenditure towards non salary portion such as maintenance of
the building, procurement of medicines, electricity charges and other contingent expenditure. Cities are now
exploring the options to generate additional resources in partnership with the representatives of local
communities, NGOs and elected representatives of municipalities.
The recurring liabilities of the logistic component in UP, Uttaranchal and Tamil Nadu will be met
by MOHFW. The recurring liabilities of the project in 94 medium cities/towns of AP, Karnataka and West
Bengal will be met by the respective State Governments by making requisite provision in their State budget.
REPLICABILITY
All the four cities followed different operational models to implement the EPP-VII Project
according to the city specific situation. Because of the exclusiveness of the city specific innovations, the
scope of replicability of these innovations should also take into account various factors inter-alia including
local needs, capacity of the local bodies etc. The four different models have got their strengthens as well as
weaknesses.
The key lessons learnt such as bringing health on to the political agenda through decentralization,
building sustained community capacities through neighbourhood volunteers, empowering of adolescent girls
and women through vocational skills and entrepreneurship training, building partnership with the private
sector to provide clinical service and focusing on financial viability needs highlighting for posterity.
However, some of the weaknesses of the project were inadequate male participation, inadequate
convergence with the slum development activities, weak referral linkages and inadequate knowledge of
bank procurement procedures.
An Experience Sharing Workshop of IPP-VIII Project was held in Kolkata on 14-15 February,
2002 which was attended amongst others by representatives of some non-IPP-VIII States, donor agencies,
mayors of the local bodies etc. During the workshop the following innovations crystallized for possible
replicability with suitable modifications.
*      Community drafted project with domiciallary orientation.
*      Voluntary characteristic of grass root level workers.
*      Bottom up approach.
*      Active involvement of CBOS acting as solid platform.
-41 -



*      Developing community partnership
*      Active involvement of elected representatives.
*      Some community development oriented activities a entry point activities.
*      Effective management and supervision cell
*      Involvement with private medical practitioners and NGOs/CBOs for different service delivery.
*      Linkage and utilization with private institutions.
*      Coverage evaluation survey by extemal agency
*      Involvement of NGOs for IEC/CD activities.
PROJECT IMPACT
Taking into consideration the achievements, performance of the project is termed as highly
satisfactorily. (Tle World Bank in their Aide Memoire of June 2002 has rated the performance of
Development objective as highly satisfactory and implementation progress as satisfactory). The
infrastructure created consisting of new construction of 1086 and renovation/repairs of 643 facilities, and
Human Resource Development in the project period through training viz. behavioral communication,
skilled, clinical, management, procurement and financial has resulted in the improvement of service delivery
and upgradation of the quality of services. These would now need to be consolidated in order to ensure
continued upgrading of the quantity and quality of services that the project initiated.  The process and
outcome indicators on infrastructure and personnel development provide evidence of considerable
achievement in capacity building of training and quality service delivery.
As indicated earlier the main objective of the IPP-VII Project was to reduce infant, child and
matemal mortality rates and fertility levels. To assess the impact of the project, the present status of the
important indicators, both impact indicators and process indicators have been compared with those in the
Baseline survey/Mid-term review. The important impact indicators considered are IMR, TFR, CPR and
CBR. The process indicators inter-alia include proportion of women receiving full Ante natal care,
proportion of children receiving complete coverage of immunization and proportion of women accessing
facilities for institutional deliveries.
The Total Fertility Rate (IER), has declined in all cities. It is reported in the End-line Survey
Report that in Bangalore TFR declined from 3.4 to 2.0, in case of Delhi the decline was from 5.1 to 3.8, in
case of Hyderabad, the decline was from 2.6 to 2.1 and in Kolkata 2.0 (mid-term) to 1.7. Thus, it is seen
that the decline was significant in case of Kolkata and Bangalore. Kolkata has already crossed the
replacement level (TFR 2.1) while TFR of the slum population was close to replacement level in
Bangalore, and Hyderabad. The decline in TFR to a large extent is due to increased contraceptive
prevalence rates - Bangalore (40% to 61%), Delhi (33% to 42%), Hyderabad (41% to 64%) with
increased used of spacing methods. The decline in fertility is also partly due to increase in age at marriage
The mean age of marriage in Hyderabad and Kolkata is esfimated to be 18 years. Age of marriage in Delhi
and Bangalore, however, remain low at 16 years and 17.1 years respectively.
The Infant Mortality Rate has declined substantially in all the four cities. Comparison between end
line survey and baseline data showed that the IMR has declined in (Bangalore: 78 to 22 , Delhi: 100 to 53
(adjusted), Hyderabad: 81 to 69 and Kolkata: 34 to 26 infant deaths per 1000 live births). This decline in
IMR in all the four cities could be attributed to improvement in the child immunization and maternal health
care services, including ANC check-up, TT, IFA, early antenatal check-up and institutional delivery which
have shown overall improvement in all the 4 cities.
-42 -



The end line survey showed high level of knowledge of HIV/AIDS, but relatively low level of
knowledge about RTVISTD. It was also found that many women have at least one reproductive health
problem. This calls for appropriate strategies on IEC and quality of reproductive health services provided
at peripheral level.
The Crude Birth Rate also declined significantly in all the cities except Delhi. Comparison
between end line survey and baseline data showed that the CBR has declined in (Bangalore: 31.9 to 19.1,
Hyderabad  26 to 19.2 and Kolkata: 20.8 to 16.4). This decline is partly due to increase in spacing
methods leading to a higher birth interval, increase in age of marriage and better contraceptive prevalence.
The Contraceptive Prevalence Rate both by terminal as well as spacing methods has shown
significant increase irt all the 4 cities. The CPR by any modem method has increased from (Bangalore:
39.9% to 60.8%, Delhi: 33% to 41.7%, Hyderabad: 41.3% to 63.8% and Kolkata: 52.2% (mid-term) to
51.8%). Thus it is seen that except Delhi in all the other cities the CPR is more than 60%. In Delhi the low
percentage of CPR could be due to higher percentage of younger population, low age of marriage, less
demand of family planning services and migrating nature of slum settlement which prevents sustainability
of the impact. However, the use of vasectomy in all the 4 cities despite project intervention continue to be
low (less than 1%).
The percentage of expectant women receiving full Ante Natal Care during pregnancy at the end of
the project was estimated at more than 80% except Delhi (Bangalore 84.1%, Kolkata 87.3%, Hyderabad
95.6%). In Delhi this proportion was around 53.5%. In Bangalore, Hyderabad and Kolkata about 90% of
the deliveries were institutional deliveries which led to decline in IMR and matemal deaths. However, in
Delhi the institutional deliveries continued to be around 27.8% which is likely to increase with imnproved
utilization of these facilities.
The project also showed improvement in the percentage of children (12-23 months) fully
immunized at the end of the project when compared to their status in the beginning of the project in all
cities except Delhi. This percentage increased from 49.6% to 89.8% in Bangalore; 50% to 82.2% in
Hyderabad and 57.1% (mid-term) to 89.1% in Kolkata. In case of Delhi this percentage is still around 56%
requiring more intensive outreach services and improved generation of demand.
There are many other process indicators which have also shown significant improvement as could
be seen from the fact sheet annexed. However, this all leads to the conclusion that the project largely met
the development objectives as set forth in the project design. These development objectives were reduction
in the fertility among slum population and imnprovement in maternal and child health by helping to decrease
morbidity and mortality among women in reproductive age and children.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
The Project had a slow start up and low levels of implementation during the first three years. The
factors which affected the implemented adversely inter-alia included (i) delay in establishing project
management unit and various committees (ii) inadequate coordination between various line departments (iii)
delay in release of funds to the implementing agencies (iv) delay in finding suitable sites for civil works (v)
less emphasis on software activities (vi) shift in project management (vii) lack of familiarity with bank
procedures regarding procurement and submission of claims and absence of well established MIS and
inadequate monitoring.
In addition to the above factors, some other factors which remained weak during the project
-43 -



implementation period were evidenced by lack of adequate male participation, inadequate convergence with
ongoing slum development activities, weak referral linkages with specialty hospitals and inadequate
training in Bank procurement procedures are some that deserve improvement.
Factors contributing to the subsequent recovery and good progress and achievement of the desired
objectives inter-alia included (a) commitment of the management at State and municipal level (b)
appointment of dedicated managerial staff in key position (c) responsiveness to strong technical feedback
provided by bank supervision missions (d) flexibility in the project design (e) key role played by the grass
root level workers in facilitating linkages with the community and provided outreach services (f)
involvement of extemal faculties and other institution in imparting training (g) public private partnership
including implementation of innovative schemes to NGOs (h) involvement of the political leadership (i)
dissemination of good practices (j) streamlining the funds flow mechanism (k) regular meetings of various
committees (1) establishment of a well planned NIS (m) regular visits of the World Bank supervisory
missions etc.
The other success stories inter-alia included (a) bringing health on to the political agenda through
decentralization (b) building sustained community capacities through neighborhood volunteers  (c)
empowering the adolescent girls and women through vocational skill and entrepreneurship training (d)
building partnership with private sector (e) focusing on financial viability.
KEY LESSONS LEARNT
1.    Despite high level of achievements in IPP-VHI, the replicability of different operational models on
an uniform basis through out the country may not be feasible because of the city specificity of innovations
required in implementation of such projects.
2.     The implementation of the project was successful as it was implemented by Urban local bodies
which were autonomous in nature and some of which resorted to self financing.
3.     The objectives and the operational models took into account the needs of both staff and
beneficiaries. The project was manned by such agencies who shared a common vision and worked as a
team to achieve the desired objective.
4.     The use of female voluntary health workers viz. link volunteers, Basti Sewikas etc. selected from
the local community played an important role in extending outreach services to the door steps of the slum
dwellers which helped in creating a demand based and ensuring clients satisfaction.
5.     The mid-term review and mid-term appraising reports of each project city helped in identifying the
priority issues and for bringing firther improvement during implementation. Intermittent studies and the
timely mid-term evaluation helped in making mid-course corrections, expansion of the project activities and
optimal utilization of the available credit.
6.     Weak institutional capacity in the beginning contributed to slow start up and weak implementation
in the early years of the project and several factors such as streamlining of the funds flow mechanism,
appointment of dedicated staff, regular field monitoring and visits of the World Bank Mission etc. helped
strengthen implementation during the later part of the project. This illustrates that active implementation
requires adequacy and continuity of critical project staff.
7.     The project also proved how important it was to establish the effective mechanism for timely flow
- 44 -



of funds to the implementing agencies viz. municipal corporations and coordinated procurement activities.
The delay in release of funds from the State Finance Department to the implementing agency adversely
affected the implementation of the project in the case of two project cities for a certain period of time. This
process was soon strengthened and efficient funds flow assisted project implementation.
8.     Effective and continuous monitoring both from the Ministry and the World Bank helped the cities
in taking mid-term corrections as and when required, completion of the activities within the stipulated
period and achievement of the desired objectives.
9.     Strong political will also played a key role in achievement of its objectives especially in Kolkata
project.
10.   Inadequacy and frequent change of critical staff at project management and technical leadership
results in weak implementation capacity affecting the project implementation adversely.
11.   Under the project, Loan Administrative Change Initiative was implemented as a pilot project
during the mid-term of the project implementation. This project was basically a project management tool
which helped in linking physical and financial outcomes and facilitation in areas like procurement
management, action plans and cash flow management. Such projects or similar tools should be built in the
project from the very beginning.
12.   Under the project, facilities were established and service delivery started from rented buildings
pending construction of new buildings. This mechanism was found very useful as the mature range of
service delivery could subsequently shift from temporary to permanent buildings. This ensured optimum
utilization of the newly constructed buildings.
13.   The operational maintenance of facilities is not given due importance by State Governments.
Hence, low cost innovations both from construction and maintenance point of view need to be incorporated
from the very beginning in the project design.
14.   In cities where the beneficiary population is essentially migratory or floating in nature as in the
case of Delhi slums, investment in permanent constructions should be minimized and operationalisation of
facilities in rented buildings could be a feasible option.
15.   Under the additional cities component, the State of Andhra Pradesh experimented with
operationalized Health facilities through NGOs. This experiment has functioned successfully at reduced
cost as compared to operationalization of similar facilities in the Government sector. One of the possible
innovations could be to establish the facilities without actual construction of new facilities and get them
operationalised through NGOs/Nursing Homes/Corporate bodies.
16.   The project design and objectives should clearly incorporate during the beginning of the project
provisions of making project interventions sustainable after the project period.
17.   The mechanism to orient various committees and staff members of project and other concemed
officials and sanctioning authorities about the bank procedures, rules and regulations etc. must be a part of
the project design so as to expedite decision making particularly on issues conceming procurement.
18.   The flexibility in the project design enabled modification of certain approved activities and addition
of certain new activities also helped in making this project a great success.
-45 -



19.    The convergence and integration of all developmental activities at State and Municipal levels with
similar departments and programs is crucial for success of such projects. Illustratively, convergence among
departments of Rural Development Education, Child and Women Development, ICDS etc. and also public
private partnership went a long way to contribute the development objectives.
20.    Ensuring decentralization, community involvement and women empowerment helps in rapid and
effective acceptance of the services.
21.    Beneficiary participation is also a key to success. Assessed felt needs are to met. Services are to
be made accessible and affordable. The client's satisfaction are to be assessed frequently and remedial
measures for any cause of dissatisfaction are to be taken up promptly.
22.    The workshops/seminars including ICR workshop held in February, 2002 with representation from
some other States and departments and undertaking of various studies helped in documenting the processes
that contributed to the successful implementation of the project including strengthen and weaknesses of
various models. This will facilitate designing the urban health program which is one the key thrust area
during the Tenth Five Year Plan and as envisaged in NPP-2000, NHP-2002 and RCH-II.
23.    Adequate leadership and dedication of the local elected bodies and their perception helped in
successful implementation of the project.
24.    Community involvement right from the stages of planning to implementation and monitoring of the
project helps in acceptability, accessibility and affordability of the services and in developing a sense of
ownership of the community.
25.    Under the project, all the project cities used innovative type of IEC to educate and motivate the
community and to increase the level of awareness of FW and MCH program. Women link workers were
selected among the slum dwellers @ 1 worker for about 200 families to act as a liaison between the health
workers and the community for an effective health delivery system. Their involvement in this task as
voluntary workers without any remuneration/with little honorarium for their services created a great
impact. Timely referral of complicated cases, if any, to the nearest facility for medical attention was
ensured through this network.
-46 -



Table 1
Summ ry of Impact and Process Indicators of IPP-VIII in four cities
S.No      Indicator          Bangalore             Delhi             Hyderabad             Kolkata
I I                Baseline Mid-term EndUne Baseline Mid-term EndDne Basellne Md-term Endline Baseline Mid-term EndUne
A    Impact Indicator
1 Infant mortality rate  77.8   NA    22.3  10O.    36.(  52.6   81.1    NA    69.4   55.6   33.7   25.6
(IMR)                        __                                         __ __
2 Crude Birth Rate      31.1   22.    19.1    NA    32.1   33.    26.1   NA     19.2   NA    20.    16.4
(CBR)
3 TotalFertilityRate    3.37   2.53   2.01    5.1    5.1   3.7    N      NA    20.     NA     2.0    1.
B   Process Indicator                      _           _                     .
1 CPR (Any modem        39.1   58.1   60.8   33.1   NJ    41.7   41.1    NA    63.     NA    52.2  51.6
method)                                                                        I
2 % Children in 12-23   39.     NA    89.    62.0   61.1   55.c   50.C   NA    82.     NA    57.1   89.1
months fully
immunized by antigen
(all)                           I      I_I
a BCG                   80.(   98.4  100.1   72.    NA     79.9  50.C    NA    85.6   78.0   88.6   98.7
b DPT                   60.    82.    96.,   68.    74.    72.    48.    NA    83.    64.C   79.3   97.9
c Polio                 60.(   79.4   94.'   68.    77.4   76.6  47.1    NA    85.1   70.C   79.7   99.2
d Measles               45.(   85.1   90.'   62.    65.8   55.8   35.C   NA    90.7   54.a   67.4   90.4
3 Percent of expectant
women received ANC
a No contact             NA     NA     7.q   NA     NA     23.4   NA     NA     2.1    NA     NA     5.4
icontact              NA     NA     4.4    NA    NA      4.3   NA     NA     0.1    NA     NA      1.5
2 contact             NA     NA     4.5    NA     NA    18.8   NA     NA      2.5   NA     NA      5.8
3 and more contacts   NA     NA    84.1   55.0   29.C   53.5   NA     NA     95.E   NA     NA     87.3
b Percent of expectant   NA    82.    84.,    NA    34.9   75.1    6     NA    95.6   76.    88.4   95.8
women received TT
immunization
c Percent of expectant   NA     NA    45.4    5.0   11.'   19.3   NJ     NA    97.7    NA    66.5     77
women
4 Percent of            76.    85.'   92.1    NA    14.3   27.8   72.(   NJ    96.5   53.9   79.1   89.0
institutional delivery
5 Percent of births      NA    85.    93.9    NA    32.    45.    NA     NA    96.5    NA    81.9   90.0
attended by trained
1health personnel
Estimate is based on a corrected factor based on using post survey check.
Traditional methods are high in Kolkata. The CPR induding the traditional methods Is 75.4.
This figure refers to 'Any contact.
-47 -



Table 2
Profile of Innovative schemes undertaken in the four cities
City            Activities                            Area                          Achievement
Bangalore I Social Health and          To create awareness among slum dwellers   337 out of 401 target
Environmental (SHE) clubs  regarding early marriage, school drop-outs,  formed (covering 415
FormedSocial Health and   small family norms, personal hygiene and  slums)337 out of 401
Environmental (SHE) clubs  sanitation.To create awareness among slum  target formed (covering
Formed                    dwellers regardmg early marriage, school  415 slums)
drop-outs, small family norms, personal hygiene
______________________    and  sanitation.
2 Establishing creches at    To provide proper care to the children of  45 out of 50 creches
slumEstablishing creches at  working mothersTo provide proper care to the  established (1075
slum                      children of working mothers               beneficiaries)45 out of 50
creches established (1075
_____________________________ _______________________________________________ beneficiaries)
3 Vocational Training for    Self-employment promotion. Tailoring and  1790 beneficiaries
Adolescent girls          Knitting, Radio and T.V repair, Zari &
______________________    embroidery work & Computer training
4 Non-formal education centers To improve the literacy status of girls and to  31 centres established as
for school drop outs and  create a cadre who will propagate family welfare against target of 50
Non-beginners             messages in the area
5 Awareness programmes       Environmental Health, Sanitation, Personal  15650 beneficiaries
_______________________   hygiene, MCH and FW programmes etc
6 Clean hut competitions     For improving sanitation facilities       190 against target of 250
held
7 Well baby contest          Organized for health of children          190 against target of 250
held
8 Health Checkup camps                                                 437 held though target
was 250 only
Kolkata   I Vocational training        Wool knitting, Tailoring, Kantha Stitch  12,000 beneficiaries
Beautician course, Embroidery Bag making &
Silk Screen Printing.
2 Entrepreneurship           Identification of the business opportnities,  2175 beneficiaries
Development Training      linkages with different Govt. & private agencies
for promotion of business, financial & technical
assistance, marketing and procure raw material
3 Encourage female education  Renovation of girls school/Toilet        297 out of 300 schools
I                                                                    covered
4 Nutrition Awareness        One day training programme for affordable diet No. Of programme not
Programme (N.A.P)                                                   provided
5 GIS                        Digitized maps having important information  10 municipalities were
________________________________________ covered
6 Hospital Solid waste       Theoretical and practical training        10 local bodies
management                (re-orientation) to H.O
7 Health development fund    Levying fees to beneficiaries at cross subsidized This was done
rates and by levying service charges at   successfully
concession rates to non- beneficiaries
8 Public-Private Partnership  Appointment of PTMO " in ESOPDs and RDCs
_____________________________  Specialist
9 Laboratory Quality Assurance 8 RDCs                                  43 technicians were
-48 -



System                                                                  given up gradation
I  I  System                   I                                           I training.
-49 -



City      _ Activities                                  Area                   Achievement
Hyderaba 1 Training of primary Mothers  Education, ANC, Immunization, nutrition,  2 training camps are
d                                  concept of pregnancies and importance of  conducted in a year. 5760
________________________ institutional delivery                   beneficiaries
2 Training of Adolescent girls  Integrated health training module designed to  13506 adolescent girls
create awareness among the adolescent girls,  benefited
gender issues, importance of education, age of
marriage, Pregnancy ANC, immunization,
________________________  delivery, cutting of umbilical cord etc.
3 Nutrition Education for   1.   Preparation of low cost nutritious meal.  9781 beneficiaries.
Adolescent girls          2.  Tested for the deficiencies in blood and
was informed to MOs concerned for required
________________________  treatm ent.
4 Play Schools              To relieve mother and the eldest sibling of the  102 schools & 1973
family from looking after the youngest sibling.  beneficiaries. Programme
gained popularity.
______________________    __________________________________       D em and  to  join  by  boys
5 Open Schools              To bring back girls of 11 years and above who  135 schools and 7000
_  had dropped-out of main stream of education  beneficiaries.
6 Vocational Training for   Training women to be eco. Independence.  3800 adolescents trained.
adolescents               Computer education, Tailoring & dress nauking,
Toy & Soap manufacturing, Agarbatti making,
Organizing women Co-operatives, Typing and
lab technician course.
7 Sanitary Facilities for Govt.  Facilities of Both open Urinals and No  14 schools this activity
girls' schools.           Urinals.                                was carried out to the
_______                       __________________________________     satisfaction  of the  school
Delhi   I Female Education          To bring them    to mainstream  education 6,888         females
_______________________   Target= 10, 1 000                       beneficiaries.
2 EEC & Community                                                    Covered 5,72,607.
Mobilization
3 Skill Up-gradation        Beauty Culture; Cutting & Tailoring; Bind 2722 beneficiaries.
2 Year contracts      making; Home Management, Jute craft and
fancy paper bags.
1 Year contract       Tailoring & Embroidery                   1800 beneficiaries
6 Month contract      Embroidery;  Beauty   Culture  Cutting   &
_________________         Tailoring & Dress Designing and Jute.
4 Male Participation        Meeting with men on RCH.                 Meeting  with  138547
______ _                      ___________________________________     m ales  w ere  arranged
-50-



Table 3
IMPROVING ACCESS TO RCH SERVICES - STATE/CITY-WISE CIVIL WORKS
ACHIEVEMENT
UNDER WORLD BANK ASSISTED IPP-VIII PROJECT
S.      Facilities    Bangalor    Delhi   Hyderab Kolkat       Aditional cities of         Logistics         Total
No.                        e                  ad        a
A.P. Karnatak West U.P. Uttaranchs Tamil
a     Benga             I      Nadu
1 Health Centres            5        21                      191 4___                                       311
2 Health Posts                      105         253'                                _         .               165
3 Matenity                            6                 23                                                     4
_   Homes/Centres                                              _
,_ Tramining Centres         1                                                                                  1
_  Sub-centres                                         =11                                                     114
Health Adminmstration                               1070                                                   107*
_   Unuts                                                                                  _
_  ESOPDs                                                 25 _    _                                              25
Centrml Medical                                        1                                                      1
Stores
Sub-Health Posts                                                            25(                             250
_  Drug Warehouses                                                                     I 1         3     11     25
11 OPD-cum-MH                                                                   I !                    =        I 1
1 Staff Quarters      _
_   (a) New                                        3                                                              8
_   (b) attached to MH         3                                                                                  3 _ _  __  3
1 Augmentation of                                 1                                                              1
_ Office                                           _                            _
accomodation for City                       ___
Family Welfare
Bureau                                                     _                           _
_  Regional Diagnostic
Centres
Total                                                                                                1077
Renovation of                                                                                              _
1 Health Centres                     83                     =                =                                 83
Maternity                 2        21                                                                        4
_    Homes/Centres                                                                   _
. Sub-centres                                          159                               __ _    _            159
1. Schools                                              297                                                    29
1 UFWCs attached to          2                                                                                  25
_MH                                                   _
I UFWCs into D type                             33                                                              33
Health Posts
Total                                                                                                 643
In addition, 9 are operating In hired accomodatlon



Table 4
Statement of Statewise/Citiwise Componentwise, Cost, Reported Expenditure & Likely Total expenditure
under World Bank Assisted IPP - VIII
Project States/ Cities  Original  Revised  Reported Expenditure ( Component wise)  Projected
Cost     Cost                                                Expenditure
upto June 02
(Rs. in
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _L akhs)
Civil Work Equipment Consultant Inc.op.Cost  Total
Services &
_Training _
Bangalore             3923.00  5283.4   2494.09   943.02   561.05  1230.99  5229.15    5283.49
Calcutta              10164.00  9832.0  2844.75  2900.02  1201.73  2529.10  9475.60    9905.02
Delhi                 4725.00  7594.0   2832.31  1288.13   497.01  2695.7q  7313.29    7999.63
Hyderabad             3515.00  4596.5C  1289.86  1435.00   531.4   1390.76  4647.11    4649.23
Addl.cities in A.P             5713.4   3105.2    424.65   554.5     71.9   4156.3     5578.49
Addl.cities in                 2239.1C  1195.08   291.53   126.4:   191.02  1804.06    2001.10
Kamataka
Addl.cities in West            4400.0C  1321.6    993.17   215.0    709.8   3239.6     3949.23
Bengal                                                                             I
T.N. Logistics                  1249.57  871.22    183.02   12.21    86.75  1153.21    1249.57
U.P. Logistics                  1982.1   617.01    34.6     32.31      1.72  685.7f    1382.18
MOHFW                    10.0c   50.0C     0.0t     0.0      0.01     0.0(     0.0o      50.00
TOTAL                22337.06 42940.3  16571.21  8493.21  3731.84  8907.91 37704.31   42047.94
* includes 6.90 cr. of share of land cost of Delhi State
-52-



Table 5
Statement of expenditure incurred yearwise, citiwise under World Bank Assisted
IPP -VIII
YEAR         1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-200 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03  Total
0                           Expenditure
(Rs. in lakhs)
EXPENDITURE
CATEGORY
Bangalore              0.0(    0.0q 657.47 704.95 1176.51 1133.3C  945.8E  596.5   14.3      5229.15
% of Total Expenditure                12.5.  13.4l   22.5    21.61   18.    11.4A    0.21
Calcutta              95.2   192.1  704.7  1277.5  1693.9  2280.0 1939.8  978.0   313.9      9475.60
% of TotoiExpen diture  1.0;   2.0     7.56  13.76   18.1    24.44  20.81   10.4     1.74_____
Delhi                 50.5f 110.93 259.83 546.79 726.6    1292.1C 2077.06 2150.4   98.9      7313.29
% of Total Expenditure  0.61   1.5A    3.5:   7.5     9.9    17.7    2&85   29.5     0.9i
Hyderabad             37.51  87.9( 439.5' 488.48 765.6    1147.1i 935.22 726.0     19.61     4647.11
%of Total Expenditure  0.81   1.91    9.4    10.53  16.5    24.74   20.17  15.66    0.22_____
Addl.cities in A.P     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0  1783.3  1475.11  897.9     4156.38
% of Total Expenditure                                              51.8i   42.8     5.33
Addl.cities in         0.00   0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    85.4  1207.1  511.4      1804.06
Karnataka
% of Total Expenditure                                               6.54   92.3     1.11
Addl.cities in West    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0   761.01 1671.2  807.4      3239.68
Bengal                                           I
% of Total Expenditure                                               27.50  60.38   12.12
T.N. Logistics         0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0   145.7  362.8   644.63_    1153.28
% of Total Expenditure                                              15.1l   37.6    47.21
U.P. Logistics         0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0   317.1  368.6     0.0       685.76
% of Total Expenditure                                              46.24   53.7     0.071O
MOHFW                  0.0o   0.0o    o.o0     0.0o    0     O.0     0.0o    0.0o   0.0(        0.00
% of Total iExpenditure
TOTAL                183.3  391.0 2061.61 3017.81 4362.7  5852.5 8990.7 9536.1 3308.3       37704.31
% of Total iExpenditure  0.5a  L.1     5.7i   8.4    12.2    16.4    25.2.  26.74    3.4!
-53 -



Additional Annex 10. [Performance Indicators]
Table 1 Key Impact/Outcome Indicators
Indicator
Bangalore            Delhi            Hyderabad           Kolkata
Year                1993     2002      1993     2002      1993     2002      1993     2002
Total Fertihty Rate  3.37    2.01      5.10     3.77      3.40      2.09     1.90      1.70
InfantMortality      78       22       100       53        81       69        56       26
R ate            I__  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                     I _ _ __ _
Table 2 Estimated Project Contribution to impact
Impact Indicator            NFHS - Urban                IPP-8                Difference
Changes*(annual)       Changes *(annual)      (IPP-8 minus NFHS)
TFR
Bangalore                       -0.08                   -0.17                  -0.09
Delhi                           -0.11                   -0.17                   -0.06
Hyderabad                       -0.05                   -0.16                   -0.11
Kolkata                         -0.08                   -0.03                   0.05
IMR
Bangalore                       -2.28                   -6.94                   4.66
Delhi                           -2.72                   -5.93                   -3.21
Hyderabad                       -2.58                   -1.45                   1.13
Kolkata                         -6.18                   -3.75                   2.43
* The desired change in case of TFR and IMR is negative since the project intends to reduce them.
Table 3 Key Process Indicators (%)
Indicator                       Ban alore         Delhi         Hyderabad         Kolkata
1993    2002    1993    2002     1993    2002    1993    2002
Contraceptive        Termina
Prevalence           1 method  36.1    51.4    20.0    22.1    28.5    62.2    27.3     34.0
(Modern method)
Total   39.9    60.8    33.0    41.7    41.3     63.8   52.2*    51.6
Antenatal Coverage
(3+ contacts)                 71.0    84.1    55.0    53.5    88.0    95.6    47.0     87.3
Institutional Delivery        76.9    87.9    14.3*    27.8    72.0    96.5    53.9    89.0
Fully Immunized
Children                      49.6    89.8    62.0     55.8    50.0    82.2    57.1*   89.1
(12-23 months)
*Mid-term(1998)
-54 -



Table 4 Contraceptive Prevalence * (%) by Parity
Parity          Bangalore            Delhi          Hyderabad           Kolkata
0                        1.6               6.1               1.4
1                       26.0              18.0              13.2               33.5
2-3                     76.1              44.1              75.9               63.7
>=4_    _               81.2              45.8              82.4               66.0
*Any modem method
Table 5 Improving access to FW and MCH services - Outreach Services
Original Cities
CitySlums/Towns covered       Slum /Poor Population       Community based
Volunteers
Bangalore         525 slums                                  851,000         940 Link Volunteers
Delhi             929 JJ Clusters                           1,250,000        544 Basti Sevikas
Hyderabad         793 Slums                                 1,213,000       8,324 Link Volunteers
Kolkata           37 Municipalities and 3 Municipal        3,713,000        3,713 Honorary Health
Corporations                                                   Workers
Total                                                       7,027,000     13,551
Additional Cities
State                 CitySlums/Towns covered       Slum /Poor Population      Community based
Volunteers
Andhra Pradesh    73 B & C Class Municipalities            2,855,441
Karnataka         11 Towns/Cities                            596,172        2,760 Resident Community
Volunteers
West Bengal       10 Towns                                   867,663        1,090 Honorary Health
Workers
Total                                                      4,319,276       3,850
Slums: Urban areas inhabited by poor which are recognized by local municipal bodies
J J Clusters: Cluster of semi-permanent structures inhabited by poor and not recognized as slums by municipal bodies
Town: Urban areas with less than 500,000 population
Cities: Urban areas with more than 500,000 population
Table 6 Improving Access to FW and MCH Services - Civil Works in 4 Original Project Cities
Type of facility        Input      Bang alore      Delhi      Hyderabad      Kolkata         AD
SAR  Achieve SAR   Achieve SAR   Achieve SAR   Achieve SAR   Achieve
__   d            d             d             d             d
Maternity Homes         New         0      5     6      6      2      5      18    23     26     39
Renovation  21    25     0      21     10     0      0      0     31     46
Expanded Specialty OPD  New         0      0     0      0      0      0      25    25     25     25
Health Centers/         New        60     55     19     21     36     25    109    107    224    208
Urban FW Centers/
Health Admunistratve Units                                         __                _
Renovation  37    25     6      83     34     33     0      0     77     141
Health Posts/Sub Centers  New       0      0     125    105    26     25     0     114    151    244
Repairs?    0      0     0      0      0      0            159     0     159
- 55 -



Renovation   I_I_                                             I                I                 I
Staff Quarters                New            7       12       0        0        0       3        0       0        7        15
Traimng Center                 New           I        I       0        0        0       0        0       0        1        1
Construction of Regional Stores  New         0        0       0        0        0       0        2        1       2        1
Renovation     0       1        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        1
Improvement in Schools        Renovation     0        0      200       0        0       14      50      297      250      311
Total                         New            68      73      150      132      64       58      154     270      436      533
_  Renovation  58       51 -    206      104  -   44      47       50  -- 456       358      658
Table 7 Improvin access to FW and MCH services - Civil works in Additional cities and Logistics
Type of facility        Input          A. P.       Karnataka West Bengal             T. N.         U. P.           Total
Lo istics      Lo istics
MTR Achieved MTR Achieve MTR Achieved MTR Achieve MTR Achieve MTR Achieved
d                             d              d
Matemity Homes (with    New            0       0       8      8      11      11      0      0       0      0      19      19
ESOPD in West Bengal)
Health Centers/         New           192     191     45      45     35      35      0      0       0      0     272     271
Urban FW centers/       Renovation     0       0      21      5       0      0                                    21       5
Health Administrative
Umts
Ware houses             New                                _                         5      11     14      13     19      24
Total                   New           192     191     53      53     46      46      5    11       14      13     310     314
Renovation     0       0      21      5       0      0       0      0       0      0      21       5
Table 8 Improving uality of RCH Services -            Skill Development Training                      |
Bangalore             Delhi            Hyderabad             Kolkata               All
Category of Staff           SAR     Achieved    SAR     Achieved    SAR    Achieved    SAR     Achieved    SAR     Achieved
Link Volunteers/HHW/        970       1369      550       568       1000     6440      4400      5182      6920      13559
Basti Sewika                        _                             _         _         _        _         _______
Para-medical staff including  484     571       729      2442       575      1528       983       897      2771      5438
supervisors                         _                   _        _         _         _         _                   _  _|
MedicalOfficers&            149       180       228       1073      170       623       710       761      1257      2637
Specialists                       I
PnvateMedicalPractitioners  300       259       200       180       600       534        0        100      1100      1073
Project Managers             20        19        75       232       60        153       45        55        200       459
Murucipal CouncilorstLocal  400       270       300       256      3600      3694       100       100      4400      4320
leaders                     2323                                   6005_12972        __6_238               16648_27486
TOTAL                       2323      2668     2082   1 4751       6005      12972     6238      7095      16648     27486
- 56 -



-57-












I






1..-. 'MM
Report No.:         24994
Type:  ~CR



