Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER  2394 IN
(Amendment)
Uttar Pradesh Agreement
(Family Welfare (Urban Slums) Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated August 21, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 2394 IN
(Amendment)
UTTAR PRADESH AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 21, 2000, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH, 
acting by its Governor (Uttar Pradesh).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated February 4, 
1994 (the Development Credit Agreement) between India (the Borrower) and 
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-seven 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 57,700,000) 
(the Credit) to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 2 
to the Development Credit Agreement;
(B)
by the Project Agreement dated February 4, 1994 (the Project 
Agreement) between the Association and the States of Andhra Pradesh, 
Karnataka and West Bengal (the Project States), the Project States have 
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of 
Part A of the Project;
(C)
project cost savings have arisen under the Project due to, 
Page  2
inter alia, foreign exchange rate changes and the availability of 
alternative sources of funding for certain expenditures previously agreed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(D)
the Borrower has requested the Association to agree to use 
these project cost savings under the Project to finance (i) the costs of 
carrying out certain activities under Part A of the Project in certain 
additional cities and towns in the Project States and (ii) the costs of 
improving logistics systems for urban family welfare services in the 
States of Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, and the Association, after due 
consideration, has agreed to this request, but only on condition that (a) 
the Borrower agree to undertake certain additional obligations toward the 
Association, (b) the Project States agree to undertake certain additional 
obligations toward the Association and (c) the States of Tamil Nadu and 
Uttar Pradesh agree to undertake certain obligations toward the 
Association; and
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Association’s 
agreement to finance the costs of carrying out those activities in Uttar 
Pradesh, has agreed to undertake those obligations toward the Association 
and, to this end, to enter into this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble thereto, 
and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh declares its commitment to the 
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be 
carried out activities under Part C of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
health and family welfare practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Part C of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Uttar 
Pradesh shall carry out or cause to be carried out its activities under 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Uttar Pradesh shall carry out, or cause to be carried 
out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
Page  3
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Uttar Pradesh Agreement 
and Part C of the Project carried out by it.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of activities related to Part C of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of Uttar Pradesh responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh shall:
(i)
cause the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each financial year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
cause to be furnished to the Association as soon as 
available, but in any case 
not later than nine months 
after the end of each such year, certified copies 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
cause to be furnished to the Association such other 
information concerning 
said records, accounts and 
the audit thereof, as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement 
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association and of Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the 
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall have terminated in 
accordance with its terms; or
Page  4
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify Uttar Pradesh of this 
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
       Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Uttar Pradesh:
Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh
Department of Medical, Health and Family Welfare
Vikas Bhavan, Janpath
Lucknow 226001, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of Uttar Pradesh may be taken or executed by a Secretary of Uttar 
Pradesh or such other person or persons as Uttar Pradesh shall designate 
in writing, and Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first 
above written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
By  /s/ G.D. Maheshwari
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
Without prejudice to any of its obligations under this Agreement or 
the Development Credit Agreement, Uttar Pradesh shall utilize key 
performance indicators agreed with the Association for evaluating its 
performance of the Project.
2.
Without prejudice to any of its obligations under this Agreement or 
the Development Credit Agreement, Uttar Pradesh shall carry out Part C of 
the Project in accordance with the Uttar Pradesh Project Implementation 
Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
