Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15242
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2006-CHA)
DECEMBER 20, 1995
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their officisl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name - Renminbi
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
At Appraisal $1 = Y 3.7
At Completion $1 = Y 8.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPI       -    Beijing Printing Institute
CTMRI   -    Curriculum and Teaching Materials Research Institute
FILO      -    Foreign Investment and Loan Office
HEPH      -    Higher Education Publishing House
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
ICR       -    Implementation Completion Report
PEP       -    People's Education Press
SEdC      -    State Education Commission
UNESCO  -    United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization
UPH       -    University Printing House(s)
GLOSSARY
Province   -    China is divided into 23 provinces, 5 autonomous regions and
three municipalities, Beijing, Shanghai, and Tianjin. In the
report, the term "province" refers to provinces, autonomous
regions and municipalities.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........................................................4
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................5
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................................1
A.  Context and  Objectives ..........................................................1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................................................                                2
C. Implementation Record                                    ................................................. 10
D.  Project Sustainability .........................................................                                          10
E. Bank  Group  Performance ..........................................................1.1
F. Borrower Performance ..........................................................                                            12
G.  Assessment of Outcome ..........................................................                                          12
H. Lessons Learned .........................................................                                                  13
PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .........................................................    14
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessments .........................................................                                  14
Table 2:  Related  Bank Loans/Credits .........................................................                                15
Table 3:  Project Timetable .........................................................                                         16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........... 16
Table 5:  Project Monitoring  Indicators ..........................................................                             17
Table 6:  Studies Included  in Project .........................................................                              19
Table 7A:  Project Costs .........................................................                                            19
Table 7B:  Project Financing  .........................................................                                       20
Table  8:  Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................................                               20
Table 9:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .........................................................                               20
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions                                      ......................................... 21
ANNEX A: MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE ..........................................................  23
ANNEX B: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ..................................... 34
ANNEX C: OPERATION PLAN ..........................................................                                                        38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents nay not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2006-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Textbook
Development Project for which Credit 2006-CHA in the amount of SDR 41.8 million or
$57.0 million was approved on April 18, 1989 and closed on June 30, 1995, without any
extension of the original closing date. The last disbursement was made on May 15, 1995
and the total disbursements were 100 percent of the credit amount.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Rene Welter, Implementation Specialist,
Consultant, Dingyong Hou, Operations Analyst and Jan Segerstrom, Senior Technical
Educator, EA2RS, task manager for the project, and was reviewed by Joseph Goldberg,
Division Chief, and Yo Kimura, Project Advisor. The Borrower provided comments that
are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank Group's final
supervision/completion mission, May 8 through 23, 1995. It is based on materials in the
project file as well as those received during the completion mission. The Borrower
participated in preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the project
completion mission Aide Memoire, preparing their own evaluation of the project's
execution and preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2006-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Introduction.  Bank Group operations in the education sector concentrated
initially on alleviating manpower shortages through expansion and improvements in
higher and technical education, reflecting the urgency of compensating for the disruption
in these areas during the Cultural Revolution. Projects supported enrollment expansion
and improved quality of instruction, and promoted greater management efficiency. After
China announced its educational reform policy in 1985, the Bank Group and the
Government agreed to a broader strategy supporting the three major aims of the policy: to
universalize basic education (nine years); to expand vocational and technical education;
and to improve and restructure higher education. In addition, the quality of education
was to be improved at all levels.
2.    Project Objectives.  Since the reform policy stated above also had direct
implications for the textbook subsector, through both quality improvement and
enrollment expansion, the Government initiated a textbook upgrading program to address
recognized deficiencies in textbook content, production quality and diversity. The project
was identified based on the findings of a sector study carried out in 1986/87, which
supported the broad objective of upgrading textbooks for the primary, secondary and
tertiary levels. Building on this, the project formulated three main objectives: (a) to
improve the educational effectiveness and quality of textbooks at all levels of schooling;
(b) to increase the variety of published textbooks available; and (c) to improve the
efficiency of textbook manufacture.
3.    Components of the Project. To achieve these objectives, the project financed
civil works, equipment and technical assistance for five components: (i) updating the
content and improving the pedagogical effectiveness of the new primary and secondary
textbooks; (ii-iv) assisting key central agencies, 22 provinces, and 21 university presses,
respectively, to expand their typesetting and printing capacity and improve the production
of published textbooks; and (v) supporting an integrated training program to upgrade the
publishing and printing skills for staff from the central agencies, and university and
provincial education publishing houses.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Achievement of Objectives. While the objectives of the project were clear and
general enough to cover the whole spectrum of textbook upgrading in support of the



Government's program, their translation into an implementation framework, particularly
for a first project of its nature in China, resulted in a project that was understandably
ambitious but too complex in the ramification of components. Nevertheless, in most
project entities implementation progressed satisfactorily without substantial guidance
from the center, and overall, the objectives of the project were achieved.
5.    Textbook Upgrading. During the project, a new curriculum was introduced for
primary and lower secondary grades, and a new generation of textbooks was developed,
tested and introduced in primary (grades 1-3) and junior secondary grades (7-9). Titles
for remaining primary grades (4-6) will be introduced at the rate of one grade each year
over the next three years. While the new curriculum and textbooks help children to think
creatively, exams for the immediate future have not yet followed suit and still require
learning "by rote." The new textbooks have been well received by teachers, parents and
students alike, but their cost is considerably higher than the old, raising questions of
affordability on the part of poorer parents and economically less favored provinces.
6.    HEPH and PEP Printing Factories. The new factory for the Higher Education
Publishing House (HEPH) was built entirely through counterpart funds. It was well
constructed and by the end of 1990 was fully equipped. Production on the other hand
started late and never reached targets foreseen at appraisal. While considerable progress
has been made in raising production levels, the present financial position of this factory is
extremely critical due to the lack of skilled production staff and insufficient training in
the areas of production management and financial control. The People's Education Press
(PEP) Printing Factory has successfully installed the equipment it acquired through
project funds. Production quality and productivity are both running at high levels and the
operation is profitable. Implementation of this component is satisfactory.
7.    Beijing Printing Institute. This is the premier establishment for training in the
graphic arts in China. Under the project, it carried out a program for the staff of both
provincial and university press printing houses which it completed in 1991. It is not clear
why further training did not take place considering project difficulties in this area. As
such, this subcomponent was not entirely satisfactory.
8.    Provincial Printing Factories. In terms of investment, this component, which
represented nearly 60 percent of total project cost, financed the purchase of a wide range
of printing equipment to enable the provincial printing factories to produce the new
generation of primary and lower secondary textbooks. Although the utilization rates for
the new equipment has to date been lower than expected, this component has largely been
successfully implemented and is satisfactory.
9.    Higher Education Publishing and Printing Houses. During the life of the
project, HEPH has had to face increased competition from the university presses;
nevertheless, it has managed to increase its publishing output. HEPH has benefited from
the technical assistance and training component and its management is keen that staff
should receive further training as a priority. With respect to University Publishing



Houses, although there were gaps in the annual reports on this subject, it is felt that their
publishing output is developing satisfactorily. University Printing Factories have had
considerable difficulty in recruiting suitable staff to run complex items of equipment.
Since many of them had only been in existence a short time at the start of the project and
had little if any experience with offset printing, their problems have been more acute than
those of the provincial printing houses. There is a continuing need for substantial training
both of technicians and managers, with particular emphasis on financial and production
management for the latter.
10.   Training and Technical Assistance. The selection process of international
consultants took more than two years. UNESCO was finally given the contract, but there
were further delays in writing terms of reference (TORs) due to the highly specialized
nature of the assignment and finding appropriate selection panels locally. Study tours
were completed successfully.  The fellowship training program, however, was
substantially delayed due to difficulties in finding appropriate training locations overseas
and, as a result, a small portion of the training program had to be canceled. The training
program conducted by visiting foreign specialists was carried out as planned and was
reinforced by the simultaneous participation of local specialists. Summing up this
component, the quantity and quality of training and technical assistance has been
disappointing and has not been seen as a continuing requirement. It is clear though from
the Operation Plan that the Government has recognized that limiting technical assistance
has also limited efficiency of operations. The Plan envisages provision of additional
training as a means to overcome these problems.
11.  Implementation and Costs. The project was implemented over six years as
planned and the credit amount of SDR 41.8 million ($57.0 million) was fully disbursed,
with actual disbursements well ahead of estimates throughout the implementation period.
Civil works, which were entirely financed through counterpart funds, were completed by
1992 and deemed to be of good quality and well maintained. Procurement of printing
and related equipment, representing more than 90 percent of the credit, was very
satisfactory and mostly achieved by 1993 through a few large-scale international
competitive bidding (ICB) packages.
12.   Borrower Performance. The Chinese team was effective in the design and
preparation of the project and in many areas of implementation including procurement.
Project management unfortunately has not been strong, particularly with regard to
technical assistance. Although the major aspects of the project were designed centrally,
when it came to implementation, individual project entities had to struggle on their own
with insufficient guidance from the center. The Project Steering Committee, which was
constituted to overlook matters, was largely ineffective.
13.   Bank Group Performance.  Preparation and appraisal of the project went
smoothly and swiftly due to good leadership and a team of qualified experts. With
respect to procurement, IDA's reviewing process was very effective. In the field,
however, the supervision process was not nearly as concentrated with an average time



between missions of 11 months, often without the assistance of relevant technical
specialists. The project may have appeared at first to be easy to supervise, which was not
the case due to the many components and subcomponents, the difficulties with technical
assistance and the lack of information on the various publishing and printing activities in
the provinces. Overall, IDA's performance has been mixed, with preparation and
appraisal representing good professional input and cooperation with the Borrower, while
supervision, by and large, was disappointing due to the lack of resources and technical
expertise for this highly specialized sector.
14.   Assessment of Outcome. The project was a very ambitious one and in overall
terms its outcome can be rated as satisfactory. It had a major impact on the whole
spectrum of textbook upgrading, particularly so in the areas of educational effectiveness
and quality for the primary and secondary levels. The stated objectives of the project
have by and large been met or are well on their way to achieving planned development
results. The project has triggered change on a very large scale and has generated a
momentum that likely will not end with the closing of the project.
15.   Sustainability. As for sustainability, only the last objective involving textbook
manufacture raises concern specifically whether all publishing and printing entities within
the project will be self-sustaining in the future. Immediate attention should be given to
the sustainability of project components, particularly those in competition with open-
market forces. An Operation Plan prepared by the Foreign Investment and Loan Office
(FILO) in connection with completion and closing of the credit was submitted to IDA in
September 1995.  It focused on activities related to the sustainability of project
investment. The implementation experience derived from the various components and
observations and recommendations made by IDA have been taken into consideration and
are reflected in the Operation Plan. As factors compromising project sustainability relate
mainly to staff training at all levels, the above recommendations (further defined in the
report), given implementation by the Borrower, would make most of the project
components sustainable.
16.   Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned from the project are:
(a)   for a first project in textbook production, fewer components and
particularly subcomponents would have simplified the implementation
process;
(b)   book pricing issues, despite much attention paid at appraisal, have still to
be resolved;
(c)   periodic updating of books and didactic materials for PEP is important for
the continuing introduction of new curricula and effective textbook
preparation;



(d)   the concept of continuing training is of vital importance to the
sustainability of project entities in the fields of financial management,
production and maintenance, inter alia;
(e)   collaboration  and  increased  communications between  the various
production entities could have beneficial results in efficiency, production
costs, equipment sharing and maintenance and training/upgrading
requirements;
(f)   strong central leadership and good communication networks are of great
importance in implementing a project with wide provincial and entity
dispersion;
(g)   well-developed periodic progress reports have several important functions,
namely for project monitoring, as tools for decision-making and finally as
records of project implementation; and
(h)   close collaboration between the Borrower and IDA on all phases of
procurement, even involving highly specialized equipment, can produce
exemplary and very timely results (para. 34).






CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2006-CHA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES
1.    Background. In 1985, the Government of China announced a reform that
emphasized the importance of education as the key to national development and
established three basic policies: to universalize basic education (nine years); to expand
vocational and technical education; and to improve and restructure higher education.
Tlhese policies had implications for the textbook subsector through both quality
improvement and enrollment expansion. At the time, China's textbook production and
distribution system delivered 2.6 billion textbooks to over 200 million students each year.
Although the number was generally adequate, Chinese educators recognized deficiencies
in textbook content, production quality and diversity. Therefore, to address these
problems, the Government initiated a textbook upgrading program.
2.    Project Objectives. The project was identified based on the findings of a sector
study carried out in 1986/87 that supported the Government's broad objective to upgrade
primary, secondary and tertiary level textbooks. Preparation of the project further defined
the scope and pace of the textbook upgrading program by drawing on the Bank Group's
experience in textbook production in other countries. Specifically, the project had three
objectives: (a) to improve the educational effectiveness and quality of textbooks at all
levels of schooling; (b) to increase the variety of textbooks available; and (c) to improve
the efficiency of textbook manufacture.
3.    Project Components. To achieve these objectives, the project included five
components with the following provisions:
(a)   equipment and reference books to assist the State Education Commission
(SEdC) to: (i) develop a modem teaching program; (ii) increase capacity
to produce audiovisual materials; (iii) augment the library collection;
(iv) computerize manuscript preparation; and (v) facilitate book
distribution and monitor inventories and sales (representing about
2 percent of total project cost);
(b)   civil works and equipment for the Higher Education Printing House
(HEPH) to build and equip a printing factory in Tianjin, equipment for the



- 2 -
People's Education Press (PEP) factory and the Beijing Printing Institute
(BPI) (about 13 percent of total project cost);
(c)   equipment and minor civil works for printing factories in 22 provinces
(about 58 percent of total project cost);
(d)   equipment and minor civil works for 21 university publishing houses and
printing factories (about 25 percent of total project cost); and
(e)   training and technical assistance in support of (a) through (d) above (about
2 percent of total project cost).
4.    Benefits and Risks. The principal benefits expected from the project were
improved textbooks with respect to educational effectiveness, content, variety and
physical quality. By 1995, the content of all primary and secondary textbooks was to be
revised and printed on improved paper, while textbooks for grades 1 to 3 were to be in
color. These changes were to improve pedagogic effectiveness and reinforce curricular
changes undertaken by the Government. By 1992, 50 percent of textbooks for higher
education were to be published by HEPH as compared to 20 percent at the start of the
project. Similarly, many of the remaining books that were reproduced by mimeographing
would be printed by offset, and new distribution mechanisms would be in place, thereby
bringing to larger numbers of university students up-to-date information packaged in
more durable and readable books. Training and technical assistance were also to aid the
development of the publishing and printing institutions. By providing modern equipment
to supplement existing facilities, the project was expected to improve the efficiency of
textbook manufacture and expand the overall capacity of the printing industry in China to
meet the accelerated demand for printed reading matter throughout the society. Prior to
the implementation phase of the project, the major risk foreseen was that full advantage
would not be taken of the improved equipment and processes because of failure to adopt
and/or implement a satisfactory training and technical assistance program. However, this
risk was perceived to be mitigated through contracting the management of the program to
an experienced agency acceptable to the Bank Group.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTWES
5.    The three main objectives of the project as stated in para. 2 above were clear and
general enough to cover the whole spectrum of improvement of textbooks at primary,
secondary and tertiary levels in support of the Government's textbook upgrading
program. While these were fully justified, their translation into an implementation
framework resulted in a project that was very ambitious and complex in the ramification
of components. For a first project of its nature in China, it stretched manpower resources
close to the capacity of the Borrower to implement it and similarly for IDA to supervise
it. Records demonstrated this fact quite tellingly since, in both the project's Annual
Progress Reports as well as IDA's supervision mission reports, there was information
missing, particularly in respect of the provincial printing factories and publishing houses.
Nevertheless, in most project entities, implementation progressed satisfactorily without



- 3 -
substantial guidance from the center, and it is fair to state that, overall, the project
objectives were achieved. In order to qualify the achievement of these objectives, one
has first to look at the aims and outcomes of its various components.
Component l(a): Textbook Upgrading
6.    Goal. The project aimed to assist the Government in the major task begun in
1987, of updating the content and improving the pedagogical effectiveness of primary
and secondary textbooks. The older textbooks prepared in the late 1 970s were considered
inappropriate for the new emphasis on science and technology and were printed on poor
quality paper, lacked clarity, definition and. color. Pedagogical improvements included
switching from "rote" to "inquiry-based" learning methods used successfully in other
parts of the world.
7.    Outcome. During the project, the new curriculum has been introduced for
primary and lower secondary grades. A new generation of textbooks has been developed,
tested and introduced in primary grades I to 3 and the junior secondary grades (7-9).
Titles for the remaining three primary grades will be introduced at the rate of one grade
each year over the next three years. The new textbooks are in a larger format than their
predecessors and are printed in color on better paper. The quality of illustrations and
page layout is immeasurably better than in previous titles and the books have been well
received by teachers, parents and students alike. There is now a far greater choice of
textbooks and supplementary materials than there was at the start of the project. The new
curriculum emphasizes child-centered teaching/learning methods and the textbooks help
children to think creatively. New classroom practices are designed to do away with rote
learning methods. The examination system has not yet been altered to match the new
curriculum, but SEdC is in the process of revising and modernizing examinations for the
entire basic education curriculum.
8.    The new textbooks are more expensive than the old, but in the view of the
Borrower, still "affordable." During the life of the project, the cost of a single-color
printed sheet has risen from 8 fen (2.2 US cents) to 35 fen (4.2 US cents) and the cost of a
four-color printed sheet is now 80 fen (9.8 US cents). Parents' income would have had to
rise in nominal terms by 340 percent for single-color textbooks to have remained
affordable and by a vastly greater margin for four-color textbooks. Therefore, substantial
subsidies for poorer counties have been introduced to assist the poorest families in
acquiring books for their children.
9.    Provinces are continuing to produce textbooks in the old "letterpress" format
alongside those in new "offset" format. The smaller books are printed in monochrome
rather than in color. Although this helps parents who could not afford to buy the new
textbooks, it inevitably creates a gulf between the children with the new books and those
with the old. Also, introduction of textbooks with a longer life span than one semester, as
anticipated during appraisal, is progressing slowly. With the price of paper having risen
dramatically since the start of the project and demand continuing to outstrip supply, it



- 4 -
would make sense to speed up experiments with textbooks with a potential for reuse and
produced to higher specifications than the present norm.
Component l(b): Related Didactic Aids, Books and Equipment
10.   Goal. In conjunction with textbook upgrading, the project supported the People's
Education Press (PEP) and related Curriculum and Teaching Materials Research Institute
(CTMRI) in: (a) augmenting its capacity to produce audio/video tapes for classroom
instruction and teacher training; (b) expanding and updating its library collection and
cataloging equipment used for research and manuscript development; and (c) introducing
modem technology for preparing and editing textbook manuscripts, typesetting, printing
and binding.
11.   Outcome. This was mostly a procurement exercise involving the acquisition of
varied but specialized equipment and books to enable CTMRI to fulfill its responsibilities
in textbook and didactic material preparation with greater technical efficiency, as well as
providing researchers within the Institute with up to date reference material. With the
exception of library books, this subcomponent was implemented early in the project since
lists of required equipment were already available at appraisal and the new equipment has
contributed to increase audiovisual production as foreseen. It also provided, among other
equipment, 60 microcomputers to replace the writing of manuscripts by hand. Library
reference books were procured only in 1994, since this involved the travel of experts to
international book fairs. Ultimately, 14,000 titles have been added to the library,
enabling PEP editors to learn from what is happening elsewhere in the world. As such,
this subcomponent can be judged fully successful.
Component 2(a): HEPH Printing Factory
12.   Goal. The Higher Education Publishing House (HEPH) is responsible for the
production of texts for core higher education courses in all universities and colleges in
China. Prior to the project it had no printing factory and relied on more than 100
factories around the country, resulting in lost time and uneven quality of output. In 1986,
SEdC agreed to assist HEPH in building a new factory-in Tianjin. Financing of civil
works was entirely the responsibility of the Government through counterpart funds, while
the project financed all equipment related to printing. By 1995, the new factory was
expected to manufacture about 38 percent of HEPH's output while the projected number
of 2,000 titles would represent about 17 percent of higher education published texts.
13.   Outcome.  Construction activities were started before the project became
effective and were completed early in the project period. Visiting Bank Group missions
repeatedly pointed out that construction was of high quality with proper maintenance. By
the end of 1990, the plant was fully equipped. Production, which started late, never
reached the targets set in the SAR, since in 1995 it is producing only 20 percent of the
total HEPH requirement.  While considerable progress has been made in raising
production levels and quality standards, its present financial position is extremely critical.
(On an annual turnover of Y 5 million, it is losing Y 1 million).



- 5 -
14.   There are several reasons for the plant finding itself in this predicament, namely:
difficulties in recruiting skilled production staff, despite great efforts to improve the skill
level of the workforce through internal and external training programs; low productivity
levels; considerable wastage and poor machine maintenance, all have led to loss of
output. Furthermore, even though supervision missions emphasized the acute need for
plant management to have the support of overseas consultants in the areas of production
management and financial controls, these were never appointed.
15.   The plant management are attempting to reduce the level of loss through letting
out surplus factory space and selling printing to commercial customers, but neither of
these solutions is sufficiently radical. The Operation Plan submitted by SEdC in
September 1995 commits the Government to resolve this situation and find the
appropriate technical/managerial/financial measures for the survival and reorienting of
the factory. At the completion of the project, this component cannot be considered
successful, but with the remedies proposed in the Operational Plan there is potential to
turn this component around.
Component 2(b): PEP Printing Factory
16.   Goal. The People's Education Press has two separate functions in textbook
production. For primary and lower secondary texts, the factory typesets books written by
PEP/CTMRI and prepares printing masters that are sold to the provinces. For teacher
training, nursery schools and adult education, the factory completes the entire production
process from typesetting to printing and binding. The project financed technologically
updated equipment to assist the factory in increasing its output and improving the
efficiency of production.
17.   Outcome. The PEP printing factory has successfully installed the equipment it
acquired with project funds and is running it profitably. The factory has produced many
thousands of copies of both old and new textbooks as well as a wide range of
supplementary materials. It has provided film masters and a reducing number of matrices
to provincial factories to enable them to print both letterpress and offset titles. It also
acquired a perfect binding line that had previously been allocated to the HEPH printing
factory and this is now in full operation. Production quality and productivity are both
running at high levels and the implementation of this component can be considered fully
satisfactory.
Component 2(c): Beijing Printing Institute
18.   Goal. BPI was established in 1978 to provide systematic training in printing
skills for the printing industry nationwide. It provides four-years' postsecondary courses
for printing engineers and technicians, technical upgrading and training in printing
management and shorter length courses. In 1987 about 650 students were enrolled in the
long-term programs. The project financed a four-color, sheet-fed printing machine to
complement other modern equipment acquired by BPI for training purposes.



- 6 -
19.   Outcome. The Institute is the premier establishment for training in the graphic
arts in China. It has expanded substantially since 1987 and has presently 2,000 full time
students. Under the project, it acquired the above specified press and carried out a
program of training for the staff of both provincial and university press printing houses,
which it completed in 1991. While it is understandable that the Institute should focus
much of its energy on training its full-time students, it could have provided far more
training for the staff of project entities than it actually did. Whether this was of the
Institute's own choosing or, as seems more likely, project entities were unwilling to
allocate additional funds for training, remains unclear.  Since training cannot be
considered as a one-time activity, technical staff should receive regular refresher courses.
Experience gathered from the project would point toward a program of short training
courses to be run by BPI staff at the Institute itself and at the premises of concerned
project entities. The latter may prove more effective than the former, since training
would not be hampered by the needs of the Institute's full-time students and its
commercial printing program. Overall, the objective of training staff employed in various
project entities was only marginally achieved.
Component 3: Provincial Printing Factories
20.   Goal. Factories in every province participate in printing textbooks for primary
and secondary schools using printing masters prepared by PEP. Within provinces, tasks
are allocated to factories by provincial publishing bureaus. For participation in the
project and after consultation with provincial authorities, SEdC selected 35 factories in 22
provinces that met predetermined criteria. To participate, a province had to agree to
repay credit funds in foreign exchange; to finance necessary civil works; and to provide
counterpart funds for purchase of equipment. The selected factories also fulfilled criteria
related to production, general and technical staffing, existing plant, equipment and
warehouse facilities.
21.   The project financed printing equipment to assist each province in meeting
production targets for the new round of textbooks, beginning in 1991. Provincial color
printing requirements to meet upgraded standards would be met in full by equipment
purchased under the project. The SAR stated that by 1995, when the phased introduction
of new textbooks was to be completed, the annual output of primary and secondary
textbooks would be about 2.4 billion copies, of which 50 percent would use color.
22.   Outcome. In terms of investment, the component represented 58 percent of total
project cost and financed the purchase of a wide range of printing equipment to enable the
provincial printing factories to produce the new generation of primary and lower
secondary textbooks, particularly those in color in the international size. Although
information provided by the annual progress reports is incomplete, it is clear that this
component has been successfully implemented.
23.   Initially the introduction of the new color textbooks was delayed and factories
found themselves with surplus capacity. This is no longer the case for the majority of



- 7 -
factories and, with the progressive addition of new titles for primary grades 4 to 6 over
the next three years, it may prove necessary for them to increase their capacity again.
Some of the provincial printing plants have found it difficult to recruit skilled workers to
operate the new machines. Although machinery manufacturers provided initial training
and training was also funded under the project, there are plants that are still unable to run
their equipment at optimum capacity and are losing production through breakdowns.
With continuing training of good quality, these obstacles could be overcome.
24.   The utilization rates for new equipment have been disappointing. Out of a total of
195 items of equipment, only 21 percent have achieved rates of more than 80 percent,
while 18 percent have achieved rates of less than 40 percent. Management of the printing
plants attribute the low figures to inadequate equipment maintenance and shortage of
work. With respect to maintenance, managers complained of the high cost of spare parts
and consumable materials for the imported machines. This is due partly to the fall in the
value of the yuan and also to insufficient training of both managers and operators in
routine maintenance procedures.  Since the machines were supplied with the
manufacturers' recommended spare parts packages, with normal usage, the need for
additional purchases should not be very great. With respect to shortage of work, a
number of factors that could not have been foreseen when the project was designed have
affected the flow of work. The main factor was the speed with which new primary and
junior secondary titles were introduced. This should now be less of a problem. There
are, however, specific items of equipment that will continue to be underutilized. This
applies particularly to large-scale typesetting units and color scanners. FILO of SEdC has
already arranged for some items of equipment to be transferred between project entities, a
practice that should be encouraged, since it is sensible to place equipment in plants where
it will generate maximum revenue. This component was successful and with increased
attendance to the use of appropriate equipment in an efficient manner, the utilization rates
are expected to rise.
Component 4: University Publishing Houses and Printing Factories
25.   Goal. University presses account for about 35 percent of published higher
education textbooks in China. SEdC selected 21 presses covering major regions of the
country and major specializations to participate in the project. Together, in 1986, these
presses produced about 60 percent of the total output of university presses. Although
they are the largest and among the most productive in China, the presses were beset by
shortcomings in skilled staff and in the capacity to manufacture books efficiently.
Because of bottlenecks in manufacture and preparation of manuscripts for printing as well
as a shortage of edited manuscripts, the textbook requirements for most university
courses were filled through locally produced, unedited mimeographed lecture notes. The
project therefore assisted the 21 selected university presses to overcome these constraints
through a program of training and technical assistance and through the purchase of
equipment to expand typesetting and printing capacity. The SAR estimated that about 85
million textbooks could thus be produced annually with upgraded specifications, while



- 8 -
output would be increased by 360 percent for typesetting and 250 percent for printing as
early as 1992.
Component 4(a): Higher Education Publishing House
26.   Outcome.  During the life of the project HEPH has had to face increased
competition from 90 university presses. Nonetheless, it has managed to increase its
publishing output, though its largest selling titles sell fewer copies than they used to. The
overall number of published titles has remained steady. HEPH has benefited from the
technical assistance and training component of the project and the management are keen
that staff should receive further training, which is in marked contrast with other project
entities that do not see further training as a priority. The publishing house is also
undertaking an increasing proportion of its own distribution requirements.
Component 4(b): University Publishing Houses
27.   Outcome. Although the annual reports are incomplete on the subject, it is felt
that the publishing output of university publishing houses is developing satisfactorily.
Since the selling prices of higher education titles are controlled, the more enterprising
publishing houses have widened their range of publications to include titles of more
general public interest that are not price controlled. Individual publishing houses that
received equipment and training were expected to assist associated publishing houses. It
is not clear to what extent this assistance has materialized.
Component 4(c): University Printing Houses
28.   Outcome.  University printing houses have had considerable difficulty in
recruiting suitable staff to run complex items of equipment. Since many of them had
only been employed for a short time at the start of the project and had little or no
experience of offset printing, their problems have been more acute than those of the
provincial printing houses. The machinery utilization figures referred to under provincial
printing houses apply equally to university printing houses with many items of plant
running well below their optimum capacity. If the printing houses were to introduce full
cost accounting, it would be clear that many production operations are not recovering
their costs. Greater efforts should be made to coordinate the production of neighboring
university printing houses either centrally by FILO or by direct cooperation between the
printing houses themselves. There is a continuing need for training both of technicians
and managers, with financial and production management requiring particular attention,
in order to increase the efficiency of operations.
Component 5: Training and Technical Assistance
29.   Goal. This component supported an integrated training program to upgrade the
publishing and printing skills of senior staff, managers and technicians from the central
agencies, and university and provincial education publishing houses. It consisted of:
(a) study tours; (b) fellowships including secondment to overseas publishing houses; and



- 9 -
(c) staff training offered through visiting foreign specialists. This staff development
program was to be managed by an experienced agency according to agreed terms of
reference formulated in the SAR.
30.   Outcome. After a delay of about two years, UNESCO was selected for the
assignment and a contract agreed between FILO and the international agency in February
1991 with a duration of three years and six months, which was later extended until
June 30, 1995. It appears that the cause of the delay in selecting the agency was the
highly specialized nature of the assignment involving training and advice in the areas of
printing and textbook production, which made it difficult for project management to
mobilize appropriate selection panels to refine the terms of reference for the assignment.
Also, for various reasons, including the delays in the selection process, well-reputed
specialized consultancy firms withdrew from the bidding.
31.   The study tours were completed successfully and with the participation
anticipated at appraisal. The fellowship training program, however, was substantially
delayed and was not fully completed as UNESCO found difficulties in identifying
appropriate training locations overseas. It was also reported that the content was too
academically oriented and not entirely suitable and relevant to Chinese conditions. As a
result of the delays, a small portion of the overseas program was canceled. The training
program conducted by visiting foreign specialists was carried out as planned and was
reinforced by the simultaneous participation of local specialists. The consultant services
program with a total of 26 person-months was not very well defined in the SAR and even
vaguer in the UNESCO contract. Hence, it was not implemented and according to FILO,
not required. Only one person-month was utilized in attempting to put the Tianjin plant
on track, but to no avail.
32.   Summing up, the quantity and quality of training and technical assistance has
been disappointing and has not been seen as a continuing requirement. The difficulties
experienced by several project entities would be less had they been prepared to invest
more resources in training. While it is accepted that training counterpart funds exceeded
SAR forecasts, the total size of the package at less than 1 percent of the total loan, using
the SAR rate of exchange, must be seen as totally inadequate. The SAR forecast the risk
involved with great accuracy in stating that full advantage would not be taken from the
proceeds of the project because of failure to adopt and/or implement a satisfactory
training and technical assistance program. As such, this component was unsatisfactory.
33.   Civil Works. Civil works under the project consisted mainly of the construction
of the new printing factory for HEPH at Tianjin and also extensions to various printing
factories for higher education and in the provinces for textbook production. These
construction activities were started before the project became effective and hence were
completed early in the project period. Reports have indicated that overall construction
was of high quality and maintenance was good. Provisions should, however, be made for
the future maintenance of the new buildings and extensions.



- 10-
34.   Printing and Related Equipment.  The bulk of equipment procurement,
representing about 50 percent of project costs, was achieved through three International
Competitive Bidding exercises, ICB I to III, which were completed in 1990, 1992 and
1994 respectively.  Preparation of documents, tendering and delivery were all
accomplished in exemplary fashion. The NCB tendering benefited from the same
approach. The only serious difficulties were encountered with the procurement under
ICB I of 12 domestically manufactured folding machines, which never worked properly.
Although a stalemate was reached between the domestic manufacturers and users, this is
a problem that should be resolved shortly. The majority of other problems relating to
equipment procured under the project have been resolved with the cooperation of the
domestic manufacturers and of the agents of the overseas manufacturers.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
35.   During the planned six-year project period, overall implementation of the project
was satisfactory. The disbursement record was very good and by the closing date, the
total credit amount of SDR 41.8 million or $57.0 million equivalent was disbursed, with
counterpart funds made available according to plan in a timely manner.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
36.   The project has triggered change on a very large scale and has generated a
momentum that likely will not end with the closing of the project. Immediate attention
should be given to the financial sustainability of project components, particularly those in
competition with open-market forces.  An Operation Plan prepared by FILO in
connection with completion and closing of the credit was submitted to IDA in September
1995. It focused on activities related to the sustainability of project investment. From the
implementation experience described above under the various components, the following
observations and recommendations by IDA have been taken into consideration and are
reflected in the Operation Plan:
(a)   devising a strategy toward the affordability of textbooks particularly for
low-income families;
(b)   provision for maintenance of both new buildings and extensions to
existing ones constructed under the project;
(c)   continuing addition of reference educational materials to PEP's library;
(d)   immediate action to remedy the very serious financial situation of the
HEPH printing factory. Competent consultants should be appointed
urgently to install proper financial controls and to raise quality and
productivity levels. An agreed survival plan should provide the details.
(e)   introducing short training programs for various project entities to be run
by BPI;



- 11 -
(f)   continuing managerial, financial and technical training programs for
Provincial printing factory staff; and
(g)   continuing training programs similar to those under (f) above for
university publishing houses and printing factories as well as
strengthening coordination of production between neighboring university
printing houses through sharing of printing equipment.
As factors compromising project sustainability relate mainly to staff training at all levels,
implementation of the recommendations given above by the Borrower would make most
of the project components sustainable.
E. BANK GROUP PERFORMANCE
37.   The swift development of project generation from identification in June 1987 to
appraisal in March 1988 and negotiations in December of the same year speaks highly for
the close cooperation existing between IDA and the Chinese Government. Previous Bank
Group projects in education had established good communication channels with the
Government that helped the preparation and appraisal process. The project benefited
from good leadership and a team of qualified experts who, working in close relation with
SEdC, developed a project that in its scale and technical complexity was nevertheless a
departure from more traditional projects in the sector.
38.  In the early stages of implementation, great attention was given to the first major
ICB exercise as well as to technical specifications for procurement, with excellent overall
results which facilitated the two remaining tenderings. Since a lot of the equipment was
technologically advanced and the quantities and costs involved of a high order, IDA's
reviewing process was necessary, and in the event, very effective.
39.   In the field, however, the supervision process was not nearly as concentrated, with
an average time between missions of 11 months. While the first three missions included
a specialist in printing and production together with a task manager, this was reduced to
single-staff missions in 1993 and 1994 with responsibilities of supervising usually two
other projects. The completion mission that included two specialists produced, despite
low manpower, the right skill mix to deal with many of the project issues. In retrospect,
the project appeared despite its magnitude to be reasonably easy to supervise, which was
not actually the case due to the many components and subcomponents, the difficulties
with technical assistance and the lack of factual information on the various publishing
and printing activities in the provinces.
40.   Overall, IDA's performance has been mixed, with preparation and appraisal
representing good professional input and cooperation with the Borrower, while
supervision, by and large, was disappointing due to the lack of resources and technical
expertise for this highly specialized sector.



- 12 -
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
41.  In general, and consistent with other projects in the sector, the Chinese team was
effective in the design and preparation of the project and in many areas of implementation
including procurement. FILO of SEdC coordinated the project at the central level as well
as with the Provincial Education Bureaus and other project entities in the provinces.
42.   Project management unfortunately has not been strong. Although the major
aspects of the project were designed centrally, 'when it camne to implementation,
individual project entities had to struggle on their own with insufficient guidance from
the center. The Project Steering Committee, which was constituted to overlook matters,
was largely ineffective.
43.   Stronger leadership from the center would have been particularly useful in the
following areas: (a) in negotiating more forcefully with machinery manufacturers and
their agents when problems arose; (b) in monitoring and adjusting technical assistance
and training to ensure that the changing needs of project entities were properly covered;
and (c) in monitoring more closely the shortages and surpluses of the various plants'
production so that expensive equipment could be fully utilized.
44.   Annual Reports were prepared as per IDA's request but were not helpful in either
diagnosing problems or comprehensively reporting project progress. Consisting largely
of tables, often incomplete for some provinces, they proved of very limited use for
visiting missions or in the preparation of the ICR.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
45.   The project was a very ambitious one and in terms of the general education
outcome can be rated as fully satisfactory, while the higher education outcome can be
judged as only marginally satisfactory. It set out to improve the quality of both the
content and the production of textbooks and supplementary materials for primary, lower
secondary and higher education students throughout China. Its task for primary and
lower secondary was made more complex in that it was linked with the introduction of
new curricula and new classroom transactions involving the concept of active learning.
46.   Many millions of new teKtbooks have been written, tested, produced and
distributed. Many millions of primary and lower secondary teachers have received initial
training in the use of textbooks in the classroom. Many printing plants have been
equipped with modem typesetting, processing, printing and binding machines. Higher
education students have had access to new textbooks produced to high production
standards whereas previously they had to be content with unsatisfactory mimeographed
materials. Staff of both publishing and printing houses have benefited from various
forms of training both within China and abroad.



- 13 -
47.   A well-implemented Operational Plan could certainly correct many of the
weaknesses that have been brought out in this report, achieve sustainability and prepare
the way for future operations that would build on the experience and lessons learned.
H. LESSONS LEARNED
48.   The main lessons learned from the project are:
(a)   for a first project in book production, fewer components and particularly
subcomponents would have simplified the implementation process
(para. 5);
(b)   book pricing, despite a lot of attention paid at appraisal, is still beyond the
scope of the project and requires much attention (paras. 8, 9);
(c)   periodic replenishment of books and didactic materials for PEP is
important for the continuing introduction of new curricula and textbook
preparation (para. 11);
(d)   the concept of continuing training is of vital importance to the
sustainability of project entities in the fields of financial management,
production and maintenance (para. 28);
(e)   collaboration and increased communications between the various
production entities could have beneficial results in efficiency, production
costs, equipment sharing and maintenance and training/upgrading
requirements (paras. 28, 43);
(f)   strong central leadership and good communication networks are of great
importance in implementing a project with wide provincial implications
and entities (para. 43);
(g)   well-developed periodic progress reports have several important functions,
namely for project monitoring, as tools for decision-making and finally as
records of project implementation (para. 44); and
(h)   close collaboration between the Borrower and the Bank Group on all
phases of procurement, even involving highly specialized equipment, can
produce exemplary and very timely results (para. 34).



-14-
PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Not
A.  Achievement of Objectives  Substantial  Partial   Negligible  Applicable
Macro polices                  OI         0          O             O
Sector policies                LI        03          0             O
Financial objectives           O          OI O
Institutional development      O0                    LI 0    
Physical objectives           0           LI         LI            LI
Poverty reduction              LI         O          O             0
Gender issues                  LI         L          LI            01
Other social objectives        LI         LI         L             0x
Environmental objectives      LI          LI         El            0
Public sector management       OI         O          L             [El
Private sector development     L          LI         L             0
Other (specify)                L          LI         L             01
B.  Project sustainability      Likely             Unlikely       Uncertain
Highly
C.  Bank performance            Satisfactory       Satisfactory    Deficien
Identification               LI                   0                LI
Preparation assistance       LI                   0l                L
Appraisal                    LI                    l                0I
Supervision                  LI                   LI               0
Highly
D.  Borrower performance        Satisfactoay       Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                  LI                  01                 L
Implementation               LI                  0                  LI
Covenant compliance          L                   0                  L
Operation (if applicable)    L                   0                  L
Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome       Satisfactory       Satisfactory    Deficien
LI                  0                 LI



- 15 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit                                   Purpose                           approval    Status
Preceding Operations
University Development Project To strengthen science & engineering in 28 leading Chinese Universities.  1981   Completed
(Ln2021-CHA, Cr. 1167-CHA) Objectives were to increase the quality & quantity of graduates &        1986
research, to strengthen the planning & management capabilities & to
prepare investmnents in the education sector.
Agriculture Education and    To assist agriculture higher education and research in 11 agricultural  1982   Completed
Research Project     colleges and 7 institutions.                                             1989
(Cr. 1297-CHA)
Polytechnic/Television  To increase the number of students & to improve the quality of  1983   Completed
University Project    instruction in China's 17 polytechnic institutions & 28 television       1992
(Cr. 141 1-CHA)      universities.
Rural Health Medical Education The educational component of this project was designed to enhance the  1984   Completed
Project          quality of education, training & curriculum.                             1991
(Cr. 1472-CHA)
Second Agricultural Education  To improve & assist agriculture education in 23 agricultural colleges, 12  1984   Completed
Project          agricultural technical schools.                                          1992
(Ln. 2444-CHA)
Second University Development To increase technical &  managerial personnel through policy &   1985   Completed
Project          institutional changes related to the engineering and economic/finance    1992
(Cr. 1551-CHA)       education subsector.
Provincial University Project  To provide direct assistance to 60 provincial universities in 28 provinces  1986   Completed
Cr. 1671-CHA)        and planning assistance for the higher education subsector.              1992
Gansu Provincial Development Part of a comprehensive plan to attain universal nine-year basic  1987  To be
Project          education and to improve the quality of instruction in primary and lower  completed
Education Component     secondary schools in Gansu Province.                                   6/30/95
(Ln. 2812-CHA, Cr. 1793-CHA)
Teacher Training Development To achieve universal basic education by expanding and upgrading
(Cr. 1908-CHA)       inservice training of lower secondary school teachers with an emphasis
on improvement in the quality of teachers and on institution building.
Following Operations    _                                                            ______
Vocational & Technical    To improve the quality of technical & vocational training in China  1990  To be
Education Project     through supporting 59 secondary vocational/technical schools in 10    completed
(Cr. 2114-CHA)       provinces and 3 municipalities.                                        12/31/95
Medium-Sized Cities    To assists Changzhou, Luoyang and Shashi cities to improve overall and  1991  To be
Development Project    sector planning and management, including education.                  completed
(Ln. 3286-CHA)                                                                               6/30/97
Key Studies Development   To support the government's plan to reform the management of science  1991  To be
Project          and technology programs.  It consists of support for research and     completed
(Cr. 2210-CHA)       graduate training in 133 State Key Laboratories and Special Labs       6/30/96
affiliated with Universities and with the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Education Development In Poor To supports three main goals for the development of education in  1992  To be
Provinces         relatively poor provinces-Shanxi, Shaanxi, Hubei, Hunan, Guizhou and   completed
(Cr. 2339-CHA)       Yunnan.                                                                12/31/98
Effective Teaching Service   To contribute to improved learning at the lower middle school level by  1993  To be
Project          providing teaching services, including instructional methodology,      completed
(Cr. 2471 -CHA)      teacher training and management of teachers training and assignment.   12/31/98
Basic Education In Poor And  To support the attainment of universal primary education and expansion  1994  To be
Minority Areas Project    of coverage of lower secondary education in poor and minority areas in 6  completed
(Cr. 2651-CHA)       provinces: Xinjiang, Sichuan, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Guangxi, and   12/31/2000
Jiangxi.



- 16-
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle              Date planned            Date actual/
l _____________________________________________                          latest  estim ate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)          04/87                  10/01/87
Preparation                                         06/87                  11/13/87
Appraisal                                          03/17/88               06/09/88
Negotiations                                        07/88                  12/16/88
Letter of development policy (if applicable)        N/A                     N/A
Board presentation                                  09/88                 04/18/89
Signing                                             10/88                 06/05/89
Effectiveness                                       12/88                  11/02/89
First tranche release (if applicable)               N/A                     N/A
Midterm review (if applicable)                      N/A                     N/A
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)  N/A                     N/A
Project completion                                 06/30/94               06/30/94
Loan closing                                       06/30/95               06/30/95
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94               FY95
Appraisal estimate                0.3    9.10    27.4    41.6    53.9    56.6           57.0
Actual                              0   22.68   50.56   52.26   54.27   54.35           57.0
Actual as % of estimate             0    249       185      125     103       96         100
Date of Final disbursement                                                          05/15/95



- 17 -
TABLE 5: PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
Indicator                       Starting              Target                End of Project
General      Higher General        Higher General             Higher
CTMRI/PEPlSEdC
Videotapes for Teacher Training             0                   280                   290
Music Cassettes                             0                   34                    36
Library Books                               0                   25,000                26,000
Manuscript
No. of PCs                 0                   60                    78
Characters Typeset Per Year (mln)    0                   24                     25
Book Distribution
No. of Newsletters            100,000             150,000                156,000
Volume of Sales              12                   12                    14
HEPH Printing Factory
% of Civil Works Completed                  0                   100                   100
Output
No. of Titles              0                    850                   456
No. of Copies (mln)           0                    25                    10
Typesetting Char.(min)          0                   120                   60
Paper ('000 reams)            0                    300                   125
PEP Printing Factory
Printing Masters
No. of Titles              395                  585                   590
Paper Matrices (pages)          250,000              300,000               310,000
Film ( 8-page units)          0               _ 70,000                   70,000
Books
No. of Titles              415                  1,038                 1,100
No. of Copies (min)           30                   113                   120
Teaching Aids
Types
No. of Items
Beijing Printing Institute
Enrollment                                  1,000               2,000                  2,200
Short-term Courses
No. of Courses               12                  18                     14
No. of Participants           280                  610                   496
Provincial Printing Factory
Total Output (mln reams)
of which COLOR               0                    5.4                   5
% of New Equipment Operational      0                    100                   100
University Presses
No. of Titles Published/Mimeographed                        594            4,43413,774 6,106/2,617
Typesetting (mln characters)                                353                  1,517 982
Paper ('000 reams)                                          310                  1,284 1,120
% of new equipment operational                                0                   100 99.7



- 18-
Indicator                       Starting              Target                End of Project
General      Higher General        Higher General             Higher
Training and TA
Study Tours
No. of Trips                                   5                   4 4                        4
Total Weeks                                     84                16  50                      10
Fellowships
Trips Completed                                   27                48  20                     40
Average Duration                                  4.5              4.0  3                        3
Short Courses
No. offered                                  1 6                 9   7                       10
No. Trained                                 80 180             225   200                    230
Long term Training
No. Trained                                140 1,066         1,322    1,200                1,400
Total Staff-months                            245 3,414         5,288   3,600                5,400
In-servioe Training
No. Trained                                    5,873           493   5,800                  500
Total Staff-months                                                 2,160
Foreign Expert Visits
No. of Trips                                   11                 18  10                     14
Total Weeks                                     36                18  30                      20
Other ( Secondary Vocational)                                                   2,800
Costs ( Fen )
Average Manufacturing Cost ( per sheet)
Black and White              6.5           12.0  13.5              21  12                      18
2 Color                  9.8                  16.5                  35
4 Color                  1.8                  32                    80
Range of Manufacturing Cost ( per sheet )
Black and White              6.0-7.0   7.5-9.0    13.0-15.0  15.0-150.0
2 Color                  9.0-10.0             16.0-18.0
4 Color                  16.0-18.5            30.0-34.0
Prices ( Fen)
Average Selling Price ( per sheet)
Black and White              8.5           15.0  20                30
2 Color                  12                   25
4 Color                  24                   48
Range of Selling Price ( per sheet)
Black and White              8.5         14-16    18.0-21.0   28.0-32
2 Color                  12.0-14.0            23.0-27.0
4 Color                  22.0-25.0            45.0-50.0



- 19-
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study         Purpose as defined at     Status      Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
There were no studies proposed under the project.
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS
______________    Appraisal estimate ($M)   Actual/latest_estimate ($M)
Item           Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
costs    costs            costs   costs
Civil Works              18.91     3.34   22.25   29.00    5.63    34.63
Equipment La             26.31    51.27   77.58   45.85   57.60   103.45
Books and materials la    0.05     0.40    0.45      n/a     n/a      n/a
Training                  0.62     0.71    1.33    2.43     1.25     3.68
Specialists Services      0.20     0.64    0.84    0.04    0.90      0.94
Total Base Costs        46.09    56.36  102.45                     107.0
Physical Contingencies    2.30     2.82    5.12
Price Contingencies       2.57     4.42    6.99
Total Project Costs     50.96    63.60  114.56   77.32   65.38   142.70
.a  Books and education materials have been grouped with equipment into "goods"
category for purposes of disbursement.
n/a: not available.



- 20 -
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate (SM)    Actual/latest estimate ($M)
Item                    Local        Foreign        Total        Local    Foreign           Total
costs         costs                      costs        costs
IBRD/IDA                                 37.8          12.2         50.0             0        49.1          49.1
Government                              48.8            6.0         54.8         61.2           1.7         62.9
TOTAL                                 86.6           18.2       104.8          61.2         50.8         112.0
TABLE 8: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original     Revised
Agreement  Covenant  Present  Fulfillment  Fulfillment           Description Of Covenant
Section     Type      Status      Date         Date                                            Comments
3.01. C        3, 11       C                               Make proceeds of credit available to proj- Complied
ect provinces, relevant state agencies,
l __________    _________        ___________    ___________   universities  on  terms satisfactory  to  IDA
3.03.           10         C                               Part C of project will be carried out under Complied
PlAs between SEdC and provinces.
3.04            10         C                               Textbook price will be set in a flexible    Complied
manner
4.01 B (ii)      I         C                               Furnish Audit Report to IDA no later than  Complied
8 months after the end of the fiscal year.
Sch. 4.A(l)      9         C                               Submit annual report April I of each  Complied
year.
Sch. 4.A(2)     10         C       07/01/90                Send plan for in service teacher training   Complied
to use textbooks to IDA by July 1, 1990
Sch. 4 A(3)     10        CP       12/31/88                Carry out training referred to in Part E of  Partial Compliance
sch.2, send plan to IDA by the end of
July each year.
Sch. 4.A.(4)    10         C                               Maintain (1) Project Steering Committee;  Complied
(11) FILO; ( III) provincial and university
PIOs
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project Cycle               Planned                     Revised                       Actual
Weeks            $         Weeks           $         Weeks               S
Through appraisal            not available                            l           l         100          300,000
Appraisal-Board              not available              l             l _                     4           12,000
Board-effectiveness          not available  _            _                        |           8           24,000
Supervision                  not available              l             l                      50          150,000
Completion                   not available                            l           l           8           24,000
TOTAL                                         _                       |           |         170        $510,000



- 21 -
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of project     Month/      No. of    Days         Specialized staff    Performance        Types of problems
cycle            year       persons   in field    skills represented       rating
Through appraisal    1/87 - 6/88    10        256     Gen. ed., Econ.,Proc.                   no major problems
spec., Imp. spec.,
Print. spec.
Appraisal through                                     Gen. ed., Print. spec.                  no major problems
Board approval      6/88 - 4/89      2         22
Board approval                                        Gen. Ed., Econ.                         no major problems
through               4/89 -         2         12
effectiveness          11/89
Supervision                                           Gen ed.,                                no major problems
3/90         2         24      print. spec.                 I
Econ., Gen., ed.                       no major problems
11/90         2         12                                  I
Econ., Print, spec.                    Technical assistance
10/91         2         14                                  2         lagging behind
problems remain as above
9/92         2          14     Econ.                        2
9/93          1         7      Econ.                        2         Difficulties in implement-
ing overseas fellowships
No major problems
6/94          1         7      Tech. ed.,                   I
Econ., Tech., ed.,                     No major problems
___ ___ __ ___ __ 10194         2         14     _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       Satisfactory  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Completion                                            Tech.,Ed., print.,
__________ _ 5195  3   21      spec., Oper. Ofcr.      Satisfactory
Gen. Ed. General Educator
Tech. Ed. Technical Educator
Econ.: Economist
Print. Spec. Printing Specialist
Imp. Spec. Implementation Specialist
Proc. Spec. Procurement Specialist
Oper. Ofcr. Operations Officer






- 23 -                    ANNEX A
ANNEX A: MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
May 8-23, 1995
GENERAL
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Messrs. Jan Segerstrom (mission leader),
Philip Cohen, and Dingyong Hou visited Beijing, Tianjin and Baoding, Hebei province to
review progress of the Textbook Development Project (Cr. 2006-CHA) and collect
information for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report, ICR for the
project. In Beijing the mission met with the S,tate Education Commission, SEdC, Foreign
Investment Loan Office, FILO and received a briefing on the status and progress of the
Project. In this context the mission also reviewed with FILO the new guidelines for
preparation of completion reports.
2.    While in Beijing, the mission visited the People's Education Press, PEP, the
Curriculum and Teaching Materials Research Institute, CTMRI, the Higher Education
Publishing House, HEPH, the Beijing Printing Institute, BPI, the Central University for
Nationalities and Tsinghua University. In addition, the mission visited the HEPH
printing press in Tianjin and also the No. I Xinhua Printing Factory of Hebei Province at
Baoding. The mission wishes to express its appreciation to FILO, SEdC, PEP, HEPH,
BPI, CTMRI and the universities and printing plants visited for the excellent
arrangements made and the fine hospitality extended during its stay in China. Unless
indicated in a follow up letter from Bank management, the agreements recorded here are
final with the signature of the task manager.
3.    Overall Implementation Status. Even though the credit is not closing until
June 30, 1995, the project has in practice already been implemented with only minor
technical assistance related activities remaining to be completed. It is expected that all
project activities be completed by the closing date and that the total credit amount
SDR 41.8 million ($57.0 million) be disbursed, perhaps with the exception of about
$100,000.
4.    The mission were unable to monitor overall project progress and outputs since the
figures made available to it in the Annual Progress Report for 1994 were incomplete.
This aide memoire has had to be prepared on the basis of verbal information supplied by
various project entities.
5.    Project Strengths. This project was a very ambitious one and, in overall terms, it
can be considered a success. It set out to improve the quality of both the content and the



-24-                      ANNEX A
production of textbooks and supplementary materials for primary, lower secondary and
higher education students throughout China. Its task for primary and lower secondary
was made more complex in that it was linked with the introduction of new curriculum
and new classroom transactions involving the concept of active learning.
6.    Many millions of new textbooks have been written, trialed, produced and
distributed. Many millions of primary and lower secondary teachers have received initial
training in the use of the new textbooks in the classroom. Many printing plants have been
equipped with modem typesetting, processing, printing and binding machines. Higher
education students have had access to new textbooks produced to high production
standards whereas previously they had to be content with unsatisfactory mimeographed
materials. Staff of both publishing and printing houses have benefited from various
forms of training both within China and abroad.
7.    Project Weaknesses. There is a great deal to admire in all that has been
accomplished but there are one or two areas of major weakness that need to be
highlighted. Project management has not been strong. Although many of the major
aspects of project design were prepared centrally, when it came to implementation,
individual project entities have had to struggle on their own with insufficient guidance
from the center.
8.    Stronger leadership from the center would have been particularly useful in several
specific areas. One would have been in negotiating more forcefully with machinery
manufacturers and their agents when problems arose. Another would have been in
monitoring and adjusting technical assistance and training to ensure that the changing
needs of project entities were properly covered. A third would have been in monitoring
more closely the shortages and surpluses of production capacity of the various printing
plants so that expensive equipment could be fully utilized.
9.    The mission has asked to see minutes of the meetings of the Project Steering
Committee in order to understand better the role that it has played throughout the life of
the project.
10.   Technical assistance and training represented a very small proportion of total
project expenditure but a very vital one. It has not been as effective as it might have been
and many project entities seem content with the fact that as far as numbers of man-
months, etc. are concerned they have carried out the project's requirements. They have
not questioned the quality of the training that their staff have received, nor have they seen
that training cannot be considered a one-off activity, but should be continuing on a daily
basis. As this aide memoire seeks to show, the quality and quantity of outputs of all
kinds within the project could be greater if greater attention were to be paid to the skill
levels of publishing and printing personnel.
11.   Sustainability. It is essential that everyone involved in the project should realize
that it is not an end in itself. The project has triggered change on a very large scale. The
momentum of change has to be kept up and now that project funds are virtually



- 25 -                     ANNEX A
exhausted, immediate attention has to be given to the sustainability of project
components. This aide memoire draws attention to areas where it is essential that the
State Education Commission should have a coherent action plan for the years to come.
PROCUREMENT
12.   Civil Works. Civil works under the project consisted mainly of the construction
of the new printing factory for HEPH at Tianjin and also extensions to various printing
factories for higher education and in the provinces for textbook production. These
construction activities were started before the project became effective and were hence
completed early in the project period. The construction inspected by the mission was of
high quality and well maintained.
13.  It is recommended that FILO's Operation Plan should include provision for the
future maintenance of both new buildings and extensions to existing ones.
14.   Printing and Related Equipment. All equipment procurement was completed
with the third limited ICB which took place in October 1993. There is at least one
problem that relates to the procurement itself. The 12 domestically manufactured folding
machines that were procured as part of the first ICB in May 1990 have never worked
satisfactorily. The end users are unwilling to repay that part of the loan that relates to
these machines and have requested that they should be returned to the manufacturer for
credit. This has not been agreed by ITC who were responsible for the ICB process and
the mission understands that a stalemate has resulted. FILO has promised to investigate
and to report its findings to the Bank by June 15.
15.   The majority of other problems relating to equipment procured under the project
have been resolved with the cooperation of the domestic manufacturers and of the agents
of the overseas manufacturers.
16.   Books and Other Education Materials. The purchase of reference educational
materials for PEP has now been completed. These are housed in a library at the
publishing house and a computerized index of them has been prepared. These materials
come from many different countries and enable PEP editors to learn from what is
happening elsewhere in the world. The library will only continue to be of value if it is
added to regularly. This issue should be addressed in the Operation Plan.
17.   Technical Assistance and Training. During appraisal it was agreed that the
project would support a coordinated program for skill development of sectoral staff
consisting of (i) study tours; (ii) fellowships including secondments to overseas
publishing houses; and (iii) staff training offered through visiting foreign specialists.
This staff development program was to be managed by an experienced agency in
accordance with agreed terms of reference (refer Annex 6 of SAR). After a delay of
about two years UNESCO was selected for this assignment and a contract was agreed
between UNESCO and FILO in February 1991 with a duration of three years and six



-26-                       ANNEX A
months. This contract has reportedly since been extended and will expire at the latest
June 30, 1995.
18.  It appears, that the cause of the delay in selecting the management agency was the
very special nature of the assignment involving training and advice in the area of printing
and textbook production which made it difficult for project management to mobilize
appropriate selection panels to refine the terms of reference for the assignment. Also, for
various reasons, well reputed specialized consultancy firms withdrew from the bidding.
19.   The study tours were completed successfully and with the participation
anticipated at appraisal. As regards the fellowship training program it was substantially
delayed and is not yet completed as UNESCO found difficulties in identifying
appropriate training locations overseas. It was also reported that the content was too
academically oriented and not entirely suitable and relevant for Chinese conditions. As a
result of the delays a small portion of the overseas program will be canceled.
20.   The training program to be conducted by visiting foreign specialists was carried
out as planned and was reinforced by the simultaneous participation of local specialists.
The consultant services program consisting of about 26 man-months totally was not very
well defined in the SAR and even vaguer in the UNESCO contract. Hence, it was not
implemented and FILO claims that it was not needed. One month, however, was utilized
attempting to put the Tianjin plant on track but to no avail.
21.   FILO reported that UNESCO had received the entire sum allowed for in the
Technical Assistance contract. Since not all the TA was in fact provided UNESCO will
be required to refund surplus funds.
IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Production of Textbooks and Other Learning Materials for Primary and Lower
Secondary Education
22.   During the course of the project new curriculum has been introduced for primary
and lower secondary grades. In conjunction with this, a new generation of textbooks has
been developed, trialed and introduced in primary grades 1 to 3 and junior secondary
grades 1 to 3. Titles for the remaining three primary grades will be introduced at the rate
of one grade each year over the next three years. The new textbooks are in a larger
format than their predecessors and are printed in color on better paper. The quality of
illustrations and page layout is immeasurably better than in previous titles and the books
have been well received by teachers, parents and students alike.
23.   The new curriculum emphasizes child centered teaching/learning methods and the
textbooks help children to think creatively. Teachers have received a limited amount of
training in the use of the new textbooks and in the changes that they necessitate in
classroom practice. However, this is not something that can be achieved overnight and it



-27 -                      ANNEX A
is essential that there should be continuing in-service teacher training. This should be
covered by the Operational Plan.
24.   New classroom practices are designed to do away with rote learning methods that
have been the norm until now. Unfortunately, since the examination system has not been
altered, full implementation of the benefits of the new textbooks will prove difficult.
Children will still be expected to acquire the necessary knowledge to enable them to pass
examinations and this will involve continuing rote learning.
25.   The new textbooks are considerably more expensive than the old. The mission
was assured that they are still "affordable." During the life of the project the cost of a
single color printed sheet has risen from 8 fen to 35 fen and the cost of a four color
printed sheet is now 80 fen. Parents' income would have had to have risen by nearly
340% during the life of the project for single color textbooks to have remained
"affordable" and by a vastly greater margin for four color textbooks.
26.   FILO agreed to include in its Completion Report details of production costs from
a representative selection of printing plants for a variety of textbooks-both color and
black and white. These will cover the first, middle and last years of the project and will
be accompanied by figures showing the average family income in the same years.
27.   The mission was also assured that all children have textbooks. Since at present no
provision is made to supply the poorest families with free textbooks, this would seem to
be a somewhat optimistic statement. There must be children without textbooks in many
of the poorer parts of China and the likelihood is that if parents cannot afford to buy
textbooks their children simply do not go to school. The Operation Plan should show the
government's plans to overcome this problem.
28.   Provinces are continuing to produce textbooks in the old "letterpress" format
alongside those in the new "offset" format.  The smaller books are printed in
monochrome rather than in color. Although this helps parents who could not otherwise
afford to buy the new color textbooks, it inevitably creates a gulf between children with
the new books and children with the old.
29.   As far as the mission is aware, no attempt has been made to introduce textbooks
with a longer life span than one semester. The price of paper has risen dramatically since
the start of the project and since demand continues to outstrip supply, it would make
considerable sense to experiment with textbooks with a potential for reuse produced to
higher specifications than the present norm.
30.   There is now a far greater choice of textbooks and supplementary materials than
there was at the start of the project. Several institutions have produced core textbooks that
they offer to provincial authorities as an alternative to those produced by the People's
Education Press. However, the latter has retained some 75%-80% of the market.



-28 -                      ANNEX A
Assistance to HEPH and PEP Printing Factories and to Beijing Printing Institute
31.   The mission was able to visit all three of these project entities. Since they have
little in common, each is commented on separately.
32.   HEPH Printing Factory.  Considerable progress has been made in raising
production levels and quality standards at this plant but its financial position is extremely
critical. It has not reached the targets that were set for it in the Staff Appraisal Report and
shows little sign of being able to meet them in the near future. On an annual turnover of
Y 5 million it is at present losing Y 1 million. Unfortunately, since the plant does not
seem to have proper financial controls these figures can only be approximate.
33.   There are several reasons for the plant finding itself in this predicament. First, it
has continued to have difficulty in recruiting skilled production staff and although it has
made great efforts to improve the skill level of the workforce through internal and
external training programs, productivity levels are not high, wastage is considerable and
poor machine maintenance has led to loss of output.
34.   Second, although previous supervision missions have emphasized the acute need
for plant management to have the support of overseas consultants in the areas of
production management and financial controls, they have never been appointed. The
Staff Appraisal report (ANNEX 5 Table 4 Item IV) makes provision for eight months of
consultant services to be allocated as needed. To date this remains unallocated. In all,
the plant has benefited directly from three weeks consultancy advice.
35.   The plant has many advantages that it is seemingly unable to trade on. It has no
reason to be short of work since it only produces some 20% of the total requirement of its
parent publishing house as compared with a target of 38% set for it in the Staff Appraisal
Report. It has a modern factory with more than enough space and it has a full
complement of modern equipment.
36.   The management are attempting to reduce the level of loss by letting surplus
factory space and by selling printing to commercial customers. Neither of these solutions
is sufficiently radical to stem the flow. The new plan is to introduce shift working. In
discussions with plant management it became clear that the cost and staffing implications
of this plan had not been accurately estimated. Assuming that additional skilled labor can
be found, it is by no means certain that the plan will not simply increase the scale of the
loss.
37.   Something must be done quickly since the plant is technically bankrupt and
cannot continue to lose money indefinitely. The color processing and printing section
should be closed and the equipment should be transferred to other factories able to make
greater use of it. The remaining monochrome printing and binding equipment should be
housed in the minimum practical area and the remainder of the factory should be sold.
Competent consultants should be sought urgently to install proper financial controls and
to raise quality and productivity levels. Management of other plants under SEdC's



-29-                        ANNEX A
administration should be asked whether they would be prepared to take over
responsibility for the factory as a whole. The Operation Plan should show give details of
the agreed survival plan.
38.   PEP Printing Factory. The PEP printing factory has successfully installed the
equipment that it acquired with project funds and is running it profitably. Unfortunately
there are no figures in the Annual Progress Report for 1994 that relate to this plant, so it
is not possible to confirm whether or not it has met the targets set for it. However, it has
produced many thousands of copies of both the old and the new textbooks as well as a
wide range of supplementary materials. It has provided film masters and a reducing
number of paper matrices to provincial printing factories to enable them to print both
letterpress and offset titles.
39.   It acquired a perfect binding line that had previously been allocated to the HEPH
printing house in Tianjin and this is now in full production.
40.   Production  quality  and  productivity  are both  running  at high  levels.
Implementation of this project component can be considered satisfactory.
41.   Beijing Printing Institute. The Institute is the premier establishment for training
in the graphic arts in China. It has expanded substantially over the life of the project and
now has 2,000 full time students. It acquired an imported four color printing press under
the project and carried out a program of training for the staff of both provincial and
university press printing houses which it completed in 1991. Since that time the institute
has had little involvement in the project.
42.   It is understandable that the Institute should focus much of its energy on training
its full time students, but, even so, it could have provided far more training for the staff of
project entities than it in fact did. What is not clear is whether this is of the Institute's
own choosing or, as seems likely, project entities were unwilling to allocate additional
funds to training.
43.   As emphasized elsewhere in this aide memoire, training cannot be considered as a
one-off activity. Technical staff should receive regular refresher courses. FILO's
Operation Plan should include a program of short training courses to be run by Institute
staff at the Institute itself and at the premises of suitable project entities. The latter may
prove more effective than the former since training will not be hampered by the needs of
the Institute's full time students and its commercial printing program.
Assistance to Provincial Printing Factories
44.   In order to enable provincial printing factories to produce the new generation of
primary and lower secondary textbooks-particularly those in color in the international
size (A5)-the project financed the purchase of a wide range of printing equipment. In
many plants this was augmented by additional equipment purchased with local funds.



- 30-                      ANNEX A
Although information in the 1994 Annual Progress Report prepared by FILO is
incomplete, it is clear that this project component has been successfully implemented.
45.  Initially the introduction of the new color textbooks was delayed and factories
found themselves with surplus capacity. This is no longer the case for the majority of
factories and, with the progressive addition of new titles for primary grades 4 to 6 over
the next three years it may prove necessary for them to increase their capacity yet again.
The Operation Plan should indicate what provision is being made for this.
46.   Some of the provincial printing plants have found it difficult to recruit skilled
workers to operate the new machines that they have acquired. Although the machinery
manufacturers provided initial training and additional training was funded within the
project, there are still plants which are unable to run their equipment at optimum capacity
and which are losing production through breakdowns. With good quality and continuing
training these obstacles could be overcome. Unfortunately the management of many
plants have assumed that since the financial outlay on training within the project has been
exceeded, there is no need for any further expenditure. This is a false economy.
47.   The utilization rates for the new equipment have been disappointing. Only 41
(21%) of a total of 195 items of equipment have achieved utilization rates of more than
80%, whereas 36 (18.4%) have achieved utilization rates of less than 40%. Management
of the printing plants see equipment maintenance and shortage of work as being the main
reasons for these low figures. These comments need to be looked at in more detail.
48.   Equipment Maintenance. Management of printing plants visited during this
mission complained of the high cost of spare parts and consumable supplies for the
imported machines. This is in part due to the substantial fall in the value of the yuan
since the machines were first procured. It is also in part due to insufficient training of
both managers and operators in routine maintenance procedures. The machines were
supplied with the manufacturers' recommended spare parts packages and, with normal
usage, the need for additional purchases should not be very great.
49.   In one plant that the mission visited, the plant management expressed the opinion
that since the machines are now some five years or more old, they are nearing the end of
their useful lives. This was a very worrying comment. Much of the equipment should
not yet have reached the midway point in its useful life and, where utilization rates are
not high, the expected life span of the equipment should be greater.
50.   Shortage of Work. A number of factors that could not have been foreseen when
the project was designed have affected the flow of work. The first is the speed with
which new primary and junior secondary titles were introduced. For example, many four
color presses have been under-utilized as a result of the extended trialing process. This
should now be less of a problem.
51.   However there are specific items of equipment that will continue to remain under-
utilized and which should perhaps not have been purchased in the first place. This



- 31-                       ANNEX A
applies in particular to pre-press equipment such as large scale typesetting units and color
scanners. Recommendations for the greater utilization of such equipment are made
elsewhere in this aide memoire.
52.   The FILO of SEdC has already arranged for some items of equipment to be
transferred between project entities. This practice is to be encouraged. Since, as a result
of the fall in the value of the Yuan, project entities expect to experience difficulty in
repaying loan funds, it is sensible to place equipment in plants where it will generate
maximum revenue.
53.   Technical assistance and training are referred to elsewhere in this aide memoire,
but it should be mentioned here that some machines are running below their optimum
outputs because their operators have had insufficient training.
Assistance to University Publishing Houses and Printing Factories
54.   Higher Education Publishing House.  During the life of the project the
publishing house has had to face increased competition from 90 university presses.
Nonetheless, it has managed to increase its publishing output even though its largest
selling titles sell fewer copies than they used to. The overall number of titles that it
publishes has remained steady.
55.   The publishing house has benefited from the technical assistance and training
component of the project.  Sixteen staff members from  editorial and publishing
departments have received training in Britain, Australia and the United States.
Publishing house management are keen that staff should receive further training. This is
in marked contrast to the management of many other project entities who do not see
further training as a priority.
56.   HEPH publishing house is undertaking an increasing proportion of its own
distribution. It claims that this saves it money. At present Xinhua Shudian handles 60%
of the task and the publishing house itself 40%. It is planning to increase the size of its
own proportion.
57.   University Publishing Houses. Although the Annual Report for 1994 is far from
complete, the mission believes that the publishing output of university publishing houses
is developing satisfactorily.  Since the selling prices of higher education titles are
controlled, the more enterprising publishing houses have widened their range of
publications to include titles of more general public interest that are not price controlled.
It is not clear to the mission whether this has harmed the academic publishing activities
which the project was designed to support.
58.   Individual publishing houses receiving equipment and training were expected to
assist associated publishing houses. These are listed in Table 3 of ANNEX 2 of the Staff
Appraisal Report. It is not clear to the mission that this has in fact happened.



-32 -                      ANNEX A
59.   University Printing Houses. Having seen only two Beijing based university
printing houses during this mission and having very little concrete statistical information
on which to base its judgment, the mission is only able to draw general conclusions.
60.   University printing houses have had considerable difficulty in recruiting suitable
staff to run complex items of equipment. Since many of them had only been in existence
for a short time at the start of the project and had little or no experience of offset printing,
their problems have been more acute than those of the provincial printing houses.
61.   The machinery utilization figures referred to under Provincial Printing Houses
apply equally to University Printing Houses. Many items of plant are running well below
their optimum capacity. If the printing houses were to introduce full cost accounting it
would be clear that many production operations are not recovering their costs.
62.   Greater efforts should be made to coordinate the production of neighboring
university printing houses. These need to be coordinated centrally either by FILO or by
direct cooperation between the printing houses themselves.
63.   There will be a continuing need for substantial training both of technicians and of
managers. Financial and production management are two specific areas that should be
focused on.
64.   Training and Technical Assistance. The procurement of TA is covered above.
The operation of both TA and technical assistance is referred to frequently throughout
this aide memoire. The quantity and quality of both has been disappointing. The
difficulties experienced by some project entities would be less had they been prepared to
invest more resources in training.
65.  It is accepted that the expenditure of counterpart funds on training exceeded
budget, but with inflation, the total size of the package itself was probably less than
required. As a proportion of the overall size of the IDA loan the expenditure amounts to
0.68% when converted at the original rate of Y 3.7 = $1.00. In no way can this be
considered sufficient.
66.   The Operation Plan must include a comprehensive program of training for the
years to come.
Recommendations and Agreements
67.   The Bank mission discussed the revised procedures for preparation of completion
reports with FILO and highlighted the requirement that the Borrower need to prepare an
Operation Plan for submission to the Bank in connection with the completion mission. It
was explained that the Plan should focus on activities ascertaining the sustainability of
project investment following completion and closing of the credit. In addition the
mission requested FILO to prepare the Government part of the ICR known as Annex B
and to provide the information necessary to complete the tables previously distributed.



- 33 -                     ANNEX A
68.   The Annual Report for 1994 is incomplete and has made it difficult for the
mission to assess the success or failure of project components. The monitoring indicators
will necessitate the preparation of a further series of figures covering progress up to
June 30, 1995. FILO will provide this information as soon as possible after project
completion and no later than August 31.
69.   It was agreed that FILO would have completed its entire obligations before
September 30, 1995, attempting to provide the bulk of the requested information at its
earliest convenience. Lastly, in the absence of progress reports during the course of the
UNESCO management assignment the mission urged FILO to request UNESCO to at
least submit a final progress report at an early date but at the absolute latest
September 30, 1995.
Beijing May 24, 1995
Jan Segerstrom
Task Manager



-34-                      ANNEX B
ANNEX B: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Project Background, Objectives and Components
1.    Project Background. In May 1985, the Chinese Communist Party announced a
"Decision on Reform of the Education Structure" that established basic policies in three
areas: (a) universalization of basic education, (b) expansion of vocational and technical
education, and (c) improvement of higher education. These policies had implications for
the textbook subsector through both quality improvement and enrollment expansion. At
the time, although the number of textbooks is adequate on the whole, there are
deficiencies in content, production quality and diversity. To address these problems, the
government designed a textbook upgrading program that led to this project.
2.    Project Objectives. As described in schedule 2 of the Development Credit
Agreement between China and IDA, the objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the
educational effectiveness and quality of textbooks at all levels of education, (b) to
increase the variety of published textbooks available, and (c) to improve the efficiency of
textbook manufacture.
3.    Project Components. The Project was designed to consist of five components:
(a)   Strengthening the capabilities of the PEP and CTMRI in the area of
curriculum development by providing equipment, books, teaching
materials and technical assistance.
(b)   Improving the efficiency and upgrading the technology of HEP, PEP
factory and BPI by providing typesetting, printing and related equipment.
(c)   Improving and upgrading the capacities of 33 printing factories in 22
project provinces by providing printing and related equipment.
(d)   Improving the efficiency and expanding the capacity of 21 university
publishing houses and printing factories by providing printing and related
equipment.
(e)   Strengthening capabilities to manage new  technology in textbook
publishing and distribution by providing training and technical assistance.



- 35 -                     ANNEX B
Project Implementation
4.    Project implementation was carried out through SEdC at the central level. Since,
however, its specialized trade is closely related to the News and Publishing
Administration (NPA), SEdC often kept in contact with the Administration in the project
implementation. Day-to-day activities were managed by FILO of SEdC (at the central
level), PIOs of PEdCs, Universities, publishing houses and printing factories. Thanks to
the cooperation and assistance of all the related institutions, the project was executed
rather smoothly on the whole. It is natural that there are also a number of deficiencies
and losses in work to be corrected in future.
5.    Status of Disbursement. Being an evidence of good disbursement, the total
credit amount of SDR 41.8 million (or $57 million equivalent of the date of payment)
was just entirely disbursed on the closing date of the Project, and the counterpart local
funds expended (Y 317 million) had exceeded the SAR budget (Y 104 million) by 49%.
6.    Civil Works. Civil works under this project are less than those under the
previous education projects, and consist mainly of the construction of the HEPH printing
factory. Most of the construction activities were started prior to the start of the Project.
All construction fees were paid with domestic funds. Overall construction was of high
quality and good maintenance.
7.    Equipment Procurement.  Almost 80% of the project costs was used for
equipment procurement, that were achieved through 3 phases of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). The major lists of equipment were first prepared by the end
users themselves, and reviewed and adjusted through consultation with related staff from
relevant departments of SEdC and NPA, and some specialists invited by FILO of SEdC.
The 3 ICB and 1 LCB were all conducted successfully, with only a few problems already
resolved and/or to be resolved.
8.    Training and Technical Assistance.  It seems that training and technical
assistance under the Project should be classified as an item of implementation rather than
a component of the Project. It also seems necessary and better to select an agency for the
assignment of the task. UNESCO was finally selected and a delay of about 2 years was
paid as cost. Among the various kinds of training, the study tours were completed
successfully while the fellowship training programs were not fully accomplished.
Training for the specialistic staff and technicians were conducted mainly in-country and
Beijing Printing Institute had played an active role in this area.
Achievement of Project Objectives
9.    Thanks to the effort and diligence of the project participants at all levels and
assistance and support of the IDA, it should be recognized that the main aspects of the
matter is that the main objectives of the Project had been basically accomplished in
success and has made meaningful impact on textbook development, despite a number of
deficiencies remained to be corrected and remedied.



-36-                      ANNEX B
10.   Upgrading of Primary and Secondary Textbooks. This subsector was mainly
related to the components of PEP/CTMRI and provincial printing factories and included
the following parts:
(a)   A new generation of textbooks had been introduced in primary grades 1-3
and lower secondary grades 1-3. Titles for the remaining 3 primary grades
will be introduced over the next 3 years. To increase the variety of the
textbooks, seven groups of titles other than those produced by
PEP/CTMRI were simultaneously prepared by different publishers. In
comparison with the older textbooks, the content of the new books had
been updated and the pedagogic effectiveness improved.
(b)   The film masters of the new textbooks were prepared by PEP printing
factory and distributed to provincial printing factories for printing. After
consultation with provinces, SEdC selected 33 factories in 22 project
provinces to be financed with offset printing and related equipment and
assisted in meeting production target for the new round of textbooks. This
deserves to be called a revolution in printing technology and the most
important accomplishment of the Project objective.
(c)   The PEP and related CTMRI had also been supported by the Project in
some areas, such as (i) augmenting its capacity to produce audio/video
aids, (ii) increasing its up-to-date library collection, and (iii) introducing
modem technology for preparing and editing textbook manuscripts.
11.  Introducing New Technology for Production of Tertiary Textbooks. This
area covers the components HEPH and university publish house and printing factories:
(a)   HEPH printing factory is responsible for the production of texts for core
higher education courses in all Chinese Universities. It is really a new
factory with newly constructed building and equipment of modem
technology. Both civil works and equipment procurement were conducted
is high quality and is timely manner. The Project output, however, is not
very satisfactory. The main cause for this seems to be shortage of
qualified skilled staff and management.
(b)   Twenty-one University presses were selected to participate in the Project.
The new production technology was introduced to them. However, some
of them have had similar difficulty in recruiting specialized technical staff
as those in the HEPH factory, but not so severe. Considering about the
traditional mimeographic printing notes, it is deserved to be called another
revolution in printing technology and grand accomplishment of the Project
objective.



-37 -                       ANNEX B
Project Sustainability
12.   Although it may be affirmed that the Project had been completed successfully,
there are still some shortages in implementation that will influence the project
sustainability. Attention should be given to the following problems related to the
sustainability: (a) maintaining the policy of "low price, minor profit upon cost recovery."
The central and provincial government will subsidize both to the textbook producer and
to the very poor students to enhance their affordability; (b) providing maintenance of the
modem equipment with new technology and new buildings and facilities to assure the
productivity of the factory; (c) establish long term continuing managerial and technical
training to increase the skill of the staff and technicians.
Bank Performance
13.   Considering that this project is the sixth education project of cooperation between
the Chinese government and IDA, no one will be surprised by their close relationship and
smooth work. Under this Project the Bank Group missioned a team for sector study that
resulted with a fruitful report. It benefits the borrower in three aspects: (a) to help the
related institutions and staff deepening their understanding about the project; (b) to help
the participating staff further familiar with the work of sector study; and (c) to assist the
participating institutions successfully implement the project.
Borrower Performance
14.   Having directed and completed 5 projects in education sector, FILO/SEdC are
familiar with the procedure of implementation of such projects. In the case of textbook
project, there are some complexities. Among the project entities, PEP, HEPH and
university presses are under the leadership of SEdC and other central technical ministries,
but the others, mainly the provincial prin.ting factories, are managed by the provincial
news and publishing bureaus. The SEdC and PEdCs are responsible for preparation of
textbooks, and news and publishing bureaus are responsible for publishing and
distribution of books.  This division of duty is inevitably a problem  for project
management. Furthermore, SEdC and the PEdCs and most of the universities have
experiences in project implementation, while the provincial printing factories and news
and publishing bureaus have no experience. The project implementation offices at the
respective levels had tried to offset the influence and had basically accomplished the
project objective with the assistance from the Bank staff and the parties concerned.



- 38 -                     ANNEX C
ANNEX C: OPERATION PLAN
Prepared by the Projects Division, FILO SEdC
September 28, 1995
Accomplishment of the Project Objectives
The Textbook Development Project closed at June 30, 1995 with its general
objectives been basically achieved, and it is a successful project.
For Higher Education, 22 institutions have benefited from the project with their
publishing houses and printing plants further strengthened. Educational materials have
much been improved in terms of contents, layout designing and printing, number of titles,
academic quality, etc.  The percentage of published books for higher education
institutions gets to about 70% of all kinds of instructional materials, 40% growth from
year 1988 to 1994, and the percentage of mimeographed and letter printed materials at the
same time dropped significantly.
General Education. Beginning from grade one of both primary and lower
secondary middle school of 1993, adding one grade each next year, new sets of textbooks
have been universalized, which were prepared since 1987 by 8 groups of teaching
research institutes and approved by the National Primary and Lower Secondary
Textbooks Review Commission.  Seventy-five percent of the new textbooks are
published by PEP and the rest 25% are by the other 7 groups who had been preparing the
new editions of textbooks at the mean time. This provides great varieties in the country
in terms of selection of textbooks.
Nine subjects in average (including compulsory and optional, variously balanced
at each grade) are taught in both primary and lower secondary schools, only some of the
subjects use four-color and international standard sized textbooks, some use two color
smaller-sized, rest use black and white printed smaller-sized books. Decisions in color
design and size selection rest with the provincial authorities.
Government Goals and Strategies for Textbook Subsector
Educational materials development is widely recognized as one of the three poles
supporting the whole education system, textbook development is one of the key sector the
national educational administration will look after. According to national textbook
development plan by the year 2000, which reflects to a large extent the continuity of the
Project objectives, mimeographed and nonpublished instructional materials will be



- 39 -                     ANNEX C
eliminated and to a greater extent the contents and format of educational materials be
internationalized with respect to varieties, contents, design and printing quality.
The State will maintain the favorable policy of "low price, minor profit upon cost
recovery" for textbook production, and use the nationally approved sets of new textbooks
as basis for general education.
Action Plans for Sustaining the Project
1. On enforcing the China's Education Law, textbook development is a key
sector for universal emphasis, governments of all levels are pledged to continue relevant
reforms regarding textbook development and provide children with qualified teaching
materials;
2. Under the policy of "low price, minor profit upon cost recovery," national and
provincial governments will subsidize those textbook producers who put textbook
production assignment top at its priority, and make no or small profit. There will also be
yearly publication subsidies from the SEdC to university presses.
3. The project supported printing factories were encouraged to turn the loan
equipment into national fixed assets so that they can enjoy regular budget from the State
for maintenance and consumable;
4. As key centers for textbook preparation and introduction, the PEP and HEP
pay great attention to the staff development, in order to expand the output from the
support of this project.
5. As a central institute, HEP produces essential instructional materials for higher
education throughout the country. The Project provides the institute with not only
technical assistance but also an attached printing plant. The SEdC urges HEP to further
upgrade the quality of instructional materials, and to make better use of its printing plant.
On the other hand, the printing plant is encouraged to strengthen its management and
training of workers so as to adapt itself to the socialist market economy.
6. PEP will provide continuously training courses for using new textbooks, and
each provincial education commission will be responsible for second round and third
round training courses. It is expected that all training courses will be completed before
the end of 1996, so that teachers get ready for the whole set of new textbooks into use
nationwide in summer 1997;
7. Now that the Beijing Printing University becomes the strongest university in
the field in the whole country, it is expected to provide more and not only preserve but
also in-service training courses.
8. As a sounding result of the project, several end-user associations have been
established during the implementation of the project. These associations are highly



- 40 -                     ANNEX C
commended by FILO SEdC, as they helped themselves solve a lot of practical problems
through regular meetings and shared visits. These associations are expected to continue
their activities after the completion of the project.
9. To keep prices of textbooks at an appropriate level, relevant departments of
SEdC will continue its effort on, through consulting other central ministries, balancing
the cost for publishing, printing and distribution.






I MAG I NG
Report No:        15242
Type: ICR



