Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7633-CHA
ST.^.FF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 14, 1989
Population, Human Resources, Urban and Water Supply Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 - Yuan (Y) 3.7
Y 1.00 - US$0.27
(February 1989)
US$1.00   SDR 0.73
SDR 1.00   US$ 1.37
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CTMRI      - Curriculum and Teaching Materials Research Institute
FILO       - Foreign Investment and Loan Office
GSM        - Grams per square meter (measure of paper weight)
HEPH       - Higher Education Publishing House
NRCPSST    - National Review Committee for Primary and Secondary School
Textbooks
PEP        - People's Education Press
PIA        - Project Implementation Agreement
PIO        - Project Implementation Office
SEdC       - State Education Commission
XHS        - Xinhua Shudian (Book Distribution Agency)
GLOSSARY
Province -     China is divided into 23 provinces, 5 autonomous regions and
three municipalities, Beijing, Shanghai, and Tianjin. In the
report, the term "province" refers to provinces, autonomous
regions and municipalities.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA ...............................................         v
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................. vi-vii
I.  THE EDUCATION SECT..                                                  1
A. Overview of Educe tion.1
B. Public Expenditure on Education.                                2
C.  Government Strategy and Objectives ....................        2
D. Bank Group Strategy in Education.                               2
E.  Rationale for Bank Group Involvement.                          3
F. Experience with Past Lending.                                   4
II.  THE TEXTBOOK SUBSECT..                                                4
A. Current Policy Framework.                                       4
B. Present Status.                                                 5
C.  The Government's Upgrading Program           .5
D. Iristitutional Framework.                                       7
E. Issues.                                                         8
Ensuring Effective Classroom Use of New Materials          9
Limited Choice of Textbooks.                               9
Maintaining Textbook Affordability .10
III. THE PROJECT .10
A.  Project Objectives and Strategy       .       .10
B. Project Components    ..10
PEP, CTMRI, and SEdC .......................              11
HEPH and PEP Printing Factories, Beijing
Printing Institute                .        .           13
Provincial Printing Factories           .       .         15
University Publishing Houses and Printing
Factories ........................................   17
Training and Technical Assistance          .     .        18
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission to China in
October 1987 comprising B.W. Searle (Senior General Educator and mission
leader), K. Ogawa (Economist), V. Demetriou (Senior Architect), C. Currin
(Educator, consultant), J. L. Wang (Educator, consultant) and P. Cohen (Print
and Production Specialist, consultant) and an appraisal mission to China in
March 1988, comprising B. W. Searle, I. H. Cheng (Financial Analyst) and
P. Cohen.
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



K                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~- ii -
Page No.
IV.          PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...............................                                             19
A.  Costs .................................................                                            19
Summary of Costs ...................................                                        19
Cost Estimates .....................................                                        19
Foreign Exchange Costs .............................                                        22
B.  Financing .............................................                                            22
,Investment Costs ...................................                                        22
C.  Cost Recovery and Financial Impact ....................                                            23
Textbook Pricing ...................................                                        23
Financial Impact and Affordability .................    25
V.         ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ...........................                                             26
A.  Project Management ....................................                                            26
B.  Project Monitoring ....................................                                            26
Expenditures ......................... .............                                        26
Project Activities and Performance Indicators ......                                        27
C.  Implementation ........................................                                            27
Status of Project Preparation ......................                                       27
Project Implementation Schedule ....................    28
D.  Procurement ...........................................                                            28
Equipment ..........................................                                       28
Books and Educational Materials ....................    28
Technical Assistance and Training ..................    28
Bank Review ........................................                                        30
E.  Disbursements .........................................                                            30
Documentation of Expenditures ......................                                        31
Special Accounts ...................................                                       31
F.  Accounts and Audits ...................................                                            31
VI.          PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................                                            32
A.  Benefits ..............................................                                            32
B.  Risks .................................................                                            33
VII.   AGREEMENI-S TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                             . .                   33



- iii -
TABLES IN T!EXT
3.1: Plan for Audio-Visual Production:  1987-1992 ...............   12
3.2: Projected Expansion of Higher Education Textbook
Output:  1986-1995.     ...................,..........   14
3.3: Projected Expansion of PEP Factory Output:  1986-2000 ......   15
3.4: Projected Expansion of Output from University Presses:
1986-1992 ...............................................   18
4.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component ......................   20
4.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure ........   21
4.3: Financing Plan .............................................   23
4.4: Annual Per Capita Expenditure on Books (1986) ..............   25
5.1: Procurement Arrangements ...................................   29
5.2: Disbursement Forecast ......................................   31
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  PEP and Provincial Factory Information
Table 1: PEP Plan for Printing Teaching Materials
and Books: 1990-2000
Table 2: General Education: Printing Output and
Financing
Table 3: General Education: Allocation of Equipment
Table 4: Provincial Factories Included in Project
Table 5: Timetable for Introduction of New Textbooks
Annex 2:  Higher Education Information
Table 1: Higher Education: Printing Equipment Financing
Table 2: Higher Education: Allocation of Equipment
Table 3: Publishing Houses Associated with Project
Institutions
Annex 3:  Project Costs
Table 1: Annual Distribution of Expenditures in
US$ Pillion
Table 2: Annual Distribution of Expenditures in
RMB Y million
Annex 4:  Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 5:  Project Related Training
Table 1: General Education: Local
Table 2: General Education: Foreign
Table 3: Higher Education: Local
Table 4: Higher Education: Foreign
Annex 6: Terms of Reference for TA Management Agency



- iv -
Annex 7: Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 8: Recommendations from Sector Work
Annex 9:  Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
CARTS
Chart 1:  Organization of SEdC
Chart 2:  Organization of PEP/CTMRI
Chart 3:  Organization of HEPH
Chart 4: Project Management Organization Chart
Map IBRD No. 20981



CHIN
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data
General
Population                                  1.06 billion (1987)
Adult literacy rate                         80% (1987)
Average per capita income /a                US$310 (1986)
Education (1987)
Lower       Upper         Post
Size of Sector                 Primay    secondary   secondary    secondary
I
Grades                        1-5 or 6     1-3 or 4       1-3        1-3 or 4
Enrollmen. (million)             128          42           13            4
Gross enrollment ratio (%)       121          60           16            4
Textbook Subsector (1986)
TIne of schooling                   No. of titles      No. of copies grinted
(million)
Primary and lower secondary              351                  2,259
Upper secondary                           94                      9
Teacher training                         113                      9
Pre-schools                              140                     38
Polytechnics                           1,241                     52
Universities and colleges              3,501                     62
Adult education                          360                     18
Totgal                           5.8fi0                 2.447
Expenditure on Educatijn (1986)
Go'-t educ. expenditure ar % of GNP:                                2.5%
Gov't educ. expenditure as % of total government expenditure:    11.2%
Gov't educ. capital exp. as % of total gov't capital exp.:          4.3%
Distribution of public recurrent exp. on education:  Primary       33.0%
Secondary   46.0%
Higher      21.0%
/A World Bank Atlas 1987.



CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit ar.d Prolect Summarv
Borrower:           People's Republic of China
Amount:              SDR 41.8 million (US$57 million equivalent).
Terms:              Credit:  Standard with 35 years maturity
Onlending
Terms:           The Government would onlend about SDR 35 million to
provinces at an interest rate of 2.5%, repayable over 15
years including a 5-year grace period. The Foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the Ministry of Finance.
Proiect
Description:     The project would support the Government's textbook up-
gradir.g program introduced in 1987. It has three main
objectives: (a) to improve the educational effectiveness
and quality of textbooks at all levels of schooling; (b)
to increase the variety of published textbooks available;
and (c) to improve the efficiency of textbook manufacture.
The project would finance civil works, equipment and
technical assistance for five components. The first
component would assist the government to update the
content and improve the pedagogical effectiveness of the
new primary and secondary textbooks. The second, third,
and fourth components would assist key central agencies,
22 provinces, and 21 university presses, respectively, to
expand typesetting and printing capacity to meet growing
demand and to improve the production quality of published
textbooks. The fifth component would support an
integrated training program to up-grade the publishing and
printing skills for staff from the central agencies, and
university and provincial educational publishing houses
being supported by the project. The proposed project is
consistent with the Government's efforts to improve the
quality and volume of textbooks during the 7th Five-Year
Plan and subsequently.  The major risk is that full
advantage will not be taken of the improved equipment and
processes because of failure to adopt and/or implement a
satisfactory training and technical assistance program.
This risk would be mitigated through contracting
management of the technical assistance program to an
experienced agency satisfactory to the Association.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreig    Total
-  (US$ million)   -
PEP/CMTRI/SEDC                                    0.53        1.21     1.73
HEPM/PEP printing factories/BPI                   5.68        7.73    13.41
Provincial printing factories                    29.69      30.13    59.82
University publishing and printing                9.37       15.94    25.31
Training                                          0.62       0.71      1.33
Specialist Services                               0.20       0.64      0.84
Total Base Cost                                 46.09       56.36   102.44
Physical contingencies                            2.30       2.82      5.12
Price contingencies                               2.57       4.42      6.99
Total Proiect Cost                              50.96      63.60   114.55
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                 -       57.00    57.00
Government                                       50.96        6.60    57.55
Total                                              50.96       63.60   114.55
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY            1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
----------------- (US$ million) --------------------------
Annual          0.3   8.8  18.3  14.2  12.3   2.7   0.4
Cumulative      0.3   9.1  27.4  41.6  53.9  56.6  57.0
Econcedic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Note:   Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
La Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and ta-tes.



CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Overview of Education
1.1       China has made significant progress in education during '.he past
several decades. From 1949 to 1987, primary, secondary and tertiary level
enrollments have increased froim 24.4 million, 1.27 million and 117,000, to
128.4 million, 54.0 million and 3.9 million respectively. In 1987, the net!/
enrollment ratio of primary school-age children was 97%; for children of lower
secondary school age, the ratio was 45%.
1.2       In May 1985 the Government announced the "Decision on Reform of the
Education Structure," the most significant reform effort in education since
1949. The Decision emphasized the importance of education as the key to
national social, economic and cultural development and established basic
policies in three areas: (a) basic education (primary and lower secondary) is
to become universal; (b) vocational and technical education are to be expanded
to comprise 50% of upper secondary school enrollment; and (c) higher education
is to be improved and restructured, and enrollments will continue to expand
while tertiary institutions will be given greater autonomy. In addition, the
quality of education is to be improved at all levels.   At about the same
time, the State Education Commission (SEdC) was formed to replace the former
Ministry of Education and provide a more comprehensive structure for policy
planning and implementation.
1.3       In 1986 a Compulsory Education Law was enacted to promote the
universalization of basic education and to provide guidelines for its
implementation.  Nine-year compulsory education is to be achieved in stages,
giving discretionary power for implementation to localities within the
following framework: (a) in cities and coastal areas compulsory education
would be attained by 1990; (b) in towns and villages with a medium level of
development by 1995; and (c) in the more backward areas, at a rate
commensurate with the economic development of each area.  The Law also allows
local governments to levy an education tax whose use would be earmarked for
;          basic education.
1.4       The basic policies announced in 1985 (para. 1.2) have implications
for the textbook subsector through both quality improvement and enrollment
expansion. Strains in the textbook publication and provision system will come
from increasing the number of titles available, from diversifying the types of
learning materials provided and from efforts to improve textbook quality, as
well as from a modest increase in the number of textbooks required. At the
primary level, little change in the number of basic texts is expected.
Because of China's highly successful population policy, total enrollment in
~/ The number of school age children enrolled divided by the total school age
populAtion, expressed as a percentage.



primary education will decline between now and 1990 and then increase slightly
by 2000. The number of lower secondary textbooks required will increase
slightly despite the declining population as he policy of compulsory basic
(nine-year) education is implemented. Higher education will experience a
substantial increase in the number of textbooks required, but because the
number of students is relatively small, the increase will remain a small
percentage of overall requirements.
B. Public Expenditure on Education
1.5       From 1981 to 1987 China significantly increased public expenditures
on education. Recurrent and capital expenditure increased by 13% and 15% per
year, respectively. During the same period, the share of the total education
expenditure (recurrent and capital) as a percent of total national budget
(including expenditures by the central, provincial, municipal and prefectural
governments) also increased significantly from 9.3% to 11.2%. Despite such
national efforts, financial support for education at all levels comprises 3.1%
of GNP, which is still smaller thatu the average for other developing countries
(about 4-5%) and developed countries (6% or higher). Central government
expenditure on education totaled Y 27.4 billion in 1987. Of the recurrent
expenditure, 33% was for primary education, 46% for secondary, and 21% for
higher education.
C. Government Strategy and Objectives
1.6       The Government's strategy as promulgated in the 1985 statement on
reform, recognized that the implementation of the broad policy of economic
reform and modernization required the training of large numbers of skilLed
workers, and that there was a need to increase "party awareness of the
importance of education so as to gear it to the needs of modernization, the
world and the future. "2/ The statement argued that education had become
'divorced .... from the needs of economic and social growth" and that text-
books were 'outdated, teaching methods stereotyped and practice sessions
ignored." Economic modernization, the statement declared, requires people who
'constantly pursue new knowledge and cultivate the scientific spirit of
seeking truth from facts, thinking independently and daring to make
innovations.' These observations provide the impetus for the curriculum
revision, modernizing of textbook content and pedagogy, and upgrading of the
physical quality of textbooks that are the objects of the proposed project.
D.  Bank Group Strategy in Education
1.7       Bank operations in China concentrated initially on alleviating
manpover shortages through expansion and improvements in higher and technical
education, reflecting the urgency of compensating for the disruptions in these
areas during the Cultural Revolution (1966-76). Support was extended to
projects assisting regular four-year universities as well as other forms of
2/   This and followir.g quotations are from the Foreign Languages Press
translations of the "Decision of the Central Committee of the Communist
Party of China on the Reform of the Educational Structure", Nay 27, 1985.



higher education such as polytechnics (two or three year vocational
universities) and television universities. Projects supported enrollment
expansion ar.n improved quality of instruction, and promoted greater management
efficiency. After China announced its educational reform policy in 1985, the
Bank and the Government agreed to a broader strategy supporting the three
major aims of the policy (see para. 1.2). The Bank has conducted sector work
on education in Gansu Province to analyze the obstacles to universal basic
education in a poor rural province, on technical/vocational education, and on
textbook development. All three sector studies have led to lending
operations. The Teacher Training Project (Credit 1908-CHA), which was
approved in FY88, will support the policy of universal basic education by
improving the training of lower secondary teachers. The Bank will continue to
assist the higher education subsector through a proposed project in
postgraduate education which would strengthen graduate programs and research,
particularly in science and technology. To further understanding of the role
of provinces in an era of decentralization (both fiscal and educational), the
Bank is programming a study on planning and financing education at the
provincial level. In light of the expansion of the tertiary sector and
increased mobility across jobs, a study of vocational education and training
for the services sector is also planned.
E. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.8       Upgrading textbooks is an important aspect of the overall strategy
to strengthen education's contribution to reform and development in China.
Bank participation would assist China to benefit from the experience of the
rest of the world in modernizing the content, the design and the technology
for manufacturing textbooks, by drawing on the Bank's experience with numerous
projects in textbook pro'u"tion in other cruntries as well as the findings of
the sector work. The project complements che Bank's other operations in
China, for example, the Teacher Training Project, which will upgrade
qualifications of secondary teachers, and the Second University Project
(Credit 1551-CHA), which in part addresses curriculum reform.
1.9       The project builds on sector work, which is reported in China:
Textbook Development (Report No. 6735-CHA). (The recommendations of the
sector work are summarized in Annex 8.) The Government has accepted, and is
implementing under the project, major recommendations of the Report including:
(a) adoption of more flexible textbook pricing arrangements (para. 4.7);
(b) elaboration of a plan to subsidize textbook purchases by poor families
when prices rise (para. 4.11); (c) a slower and more realistic pace for
implementing the new program (paras. 2.4-2.5); (d) strengthening programs for
field resting textbooks (paras. 2.5, 2.12); (e) divers.fying channels for
distribution of higher education textbooks (para. 3.8); and (f) undertaking a
substantial program of training to improve the human resource base required
for upgrading the educational publishing field in China (para. 3.19).
1.10      In addition to undertaking an analysis of the sector, which has led
to the adoption of the above mentioned recommendations, Bank work has assisted
in: (a) clarifying issues of textbook pricing and encouraging dialogue, in
advance of the required decision making, between the various authorities who
must collaborate on making pricing decisions; (b) improving the efficiency of
textbook publishing nd printing by redirecting choices of equipment and



advising on the sequencing of equipment acquisition (para. 5.8); (c) promoting
agreements to share equipment among installations (para. 3.16); (d) building
consensus on the need for extensive training for several categories of staff,
(paras. 3.17-3.19); and (e) stimulating the development of a new type of paper
that is suitable for offset printing but less expensive to produce than the
present standard of offset paper.
F. Experience with Past Lendin&
1.11      Eight Bank Group financed projects in China have supported education
under three ministries. Four are managed by SEdC. The first project, the
University Development Project (Loan 2021/Credit 1167-CHA, US$200 million),
assisted 28 major universities under SEdC in the fields of science and
engineering. It was approved in 1981 and completed in 1986. The Project
Completion Report and Audit (December 30, 1988) records the successful
implementation of the project and highlights :he importance of technical
assistance and its external management as fa .tors contributing to success.
The second education project, approved in 1983, is strengthening technical
education through the development of polytechnics and television universities
(Credit 1411-CHA, US$85 million). The Second University Development Project
(Credit 1551-CHA, US$145 million) is contributing to improvements in education
in engineering, economics and finance in about 35 universities under various
line ministries. In 1986, the Provincial Universities Project (Credit 1671-
CHA, US$120 million) was approved to assist provincial universities and the
SEdC in expanding enrollment and improving the quality and management of
provincial higher education programs. Special emphasis is being given to
teacher education programs in normal (teacher training) universities. Under
the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, two loan/credits
were extended, in 1982 and 1984, for the development of professional
agricultural manpower (Credit 1297-CHA, Loan 2444/Credit 1500-CHA, total
US$144 million). A Rural Health and Medical Education Project approved in
1984 (Credit 1472-CHA, US$85 million) included about $43 million for support
of 13 medical universities under the Ministry of Public Health.  The Gansu
Provincial Development Project, (Loan 2812/Credit 1793-CHA), which was signed
in 1987, has an Education Component (US$20 million) that will assist the
province to meet tne objectives of the educational reform.  It is also the
first operation specifically focusing on basic education. Implementation of
all projects .as been satisfactory. Disbursements are equal to or ahead of
appraisal estimates. Policy initiatives are being implemented as agreed and
enrollment and other target indicators measuring quantitative, qualitative and
efficiency improvements in on-going projects are generally being achieved as
scheduled although longer-term project impact has yet to be assessed.



II. THE TEXTBOOK SUBSECTOR3/
A. Current Policy Framework
2.1       China's textbook production and distribution system delivers 2.6
billion textbooks to over 200 million students each year. This achievement is
the result of several key textbook provision policies:
(a) All students at all levels must have their own new copies of all
required textbooks. Typically, schools and universities purchase
texts and sell them to the students at the purchase price.
(b) Textbooks of most primary and secondary subjects cover course
material for only one semester. Thus, two books per year are
required for most subjects.
(c) The sales prices of textbooks are, as a matter of general policy,
set so as to fully recapture the production cost, and provide
minimal returns (5%) to publishers while remaining affordable to
parents and students.
(') Textbook production receives certain advantageous treatment such as
subsidized paper prices, and priority in allocatior of paper and
printing.
(e) Printing and distribution of textbooks are given priority over other
printed materials, to ensure that books arrive in schools by the
beginning of each semester.
B. Present Status
2.2       Although the number of textbooks is adequate, Chinese educators
recognize deficiencies in content, production quality and diversity. Current
primary and secondary textbooks were prepared in the late 1970s and are
considered inappropriate for the new emphasis on science and technology. Most
are printed on 52 gsm letterpress paper, which is similar in quality to
newsprint, and are covered with paper scarcely heavier than the inside pages.
Under classroom conditions, such books deteriorate quickly. Page siz- is
small, margins are narrow, pages are crowded and illustrations reproduce
indistinctly. Color, which has beer. found to enhance the educational
effectiveness of textbooks, particularly for young children, is not used.
Only about 20-30% of thz textbooks for higher education are published books;
the remainder are unedited mimeographed manuscripts prepared at each
institution. At all levels, there is rarely more than one official textbook
for each subject and grade, a degree of uniformity that is inappropriate in a
country as large and diverse as China.
3/   A more comprehensive discussion of the subsector can be found in the Sector
Report, No. 6735-CHA.  Annex 8 reproduces the recommendations.



- 6 -
C. The Government's Upgrading Program
2.3       In order to address the above problems (para 2.2), the government
has designed a textbook upgrading program with the following three main
objectives:
(a)  improve the education effectiveness and quality of textbooks aL all
levels of schooling;
(b) increase the variety of published textbooks; and
(c) improve the efficiency of textbook manufacture.
2.4       SEdC has adopted specific plans and targets for the upgrading of the
textbook subsector.
(a) Primary education. Beginnir,_ 'n 1991 with grade 1, a new set of
textbooks with updated content, modern pedagogy, improved design and
layout and appropriate use of color4/ would be introduced nation
wide, one grade each year. The new teaching materials will be based
on the following general principles: (a) materials must be
appropriate for schools and suitable for the needs of the students;
(b) they must take into account social, economic and cultural
differences between regions; (c) they must be suitable for use by
less well qualified teachers in remote rural areas; and (d) they
must cate- for the full development of students, not only for their
intellectual development. The new curriculum is designed to develop
citizens who are able to think independently using a scientific
approach, as called for by the educational reform decision. The
production standards of these books would be gradually upgraded to
International Standard size (148 x 210 mm). Black and white books
would continue to be printed on 52 gsm paper; two color books would
be printed on 60 gsm paper; and four color books on 70 gsm offset
quality paper. By 1996, all textbooks for grades 1-3 would be
printed in either two or four colors (Annex 1, Table 5). To reduce
reliance on a single set of textbooks, a greater variety of
supporting learning materials such as audio and videocassettes, wall
charts and supplementary readers would also be produced.
(b) Secondary education. Starting with lower secondary grade 1 in 1991,
new textbooks with improved content and pedagogy would be
introduced. Printing of these books would gradually be upgraded to
International Standard size on paper of increased weight and quality
with more pages of colored illustrations. As for primary education,
ddditional non-text teaching materials would be developed to support
curriculum objectives.
4/   Research in the United States and elsewhere has demonstrated that use of
color in textbooks, particularly for lower grades, increases student
attention levels and improves learning of basic concepts.



-7-
(c) Higler education. By 1995, 50% of textbooks for universities and
colleges would be published (not mimeographed) and all publiihed
textbooks would be of International Standard size, printed by offset
v tho on 60 gsm paper. The number of published texts would be
increased by encouraging authorship and by increasing typesetting
capacity to remove a major bottleneck to publication. The use of
published texts at institutions other than the originating
university would be significantly increased by improving the
distribution system. All unpublished textbooks for 96 key
universities would be produced by small offset litho rather than by
mimeographing.
2.5       The upgrading program described here reflects modifications in the
procedures for writing and field testing manuscripts recorAmended by the Sector
Report and adopted by the Government. These include: (e.) reducing to more
managable proportions the number of schools to be sampled in the field testing
program while maintaining adequate sample sizes, thereby making it more cost-
effective; (b) reducing substantially the number of primary school textbook
titles that will be produced using color; and (e) phasing the introduction of
textbooks, to place less strain on the production system. The modified
program for producing new manuscripts was thoroughly reviewed during appraisal
and was judged feasible. (The detailed manuscript development schedules are
reviewed and analyzed in a consultant's report, 'Curriculum Development for
Basic Education in Chinaw by Charles Currin, available in project files.) The
Bank has also reviewed, and is satisfied with, the principles underlying the
choices of curriculum to be reflected in the textbooks and the thrust of the
new teaching strategies being adopted (para. 2.4). Manuscript development
work is knowledge and labor intensive, but not capital intensive.
Furthermore, in the judgement of the appraisal mission, the work is well in
hand. The proposed project will provide some assistance to this work, through
provision of computers for word processing/text editing, reference books/
teaching materials and technical assistance. However, the bulk of the project
will assist the Government in the technical aspect of the textbook upgrading
program where its need is greatest.
D.  Institutional Framework
2.6       Overall responsibility for textbook provision rests with the SEdC.
However, a number of entities within the SEdC and several other agencies and
ministries participate in various stages of the publishing process. Within
the SEdC, primary and secondary school textboolk manuscripts are prepared by
i          the People's Education Press (PEP).  The National Review Committee for Primary
and Secondary School Textbooks (NRCPSST) is responsible for manuscript
evaluation and approval. The Curriculum and Teaching Materials Research
Institute (CTMRI) shares the same staff as PEP and is responsible for research
and development of teaching programs, syllabi and teaching methodologies used
in the textbooks published by PEP.
2.7       At the higher education level, the SEdC's Office of Teaching
Materials, Library and Information Management is responsible for overseeing
textbook publishing, recommending pricing and subsidy policies and
administering the SEdC-controlled university presses. Higher education



manuscript preparation is more decentralized than that for primary and
secondary education. The Higher Education Publishing House (HEPH) writes and
publishes textbooks for core university and college courses while the
remaining published manuscripts are written by academic staff of tertiary
institutions and are published by university or line ministry presses.
Remaining textbooks (about 70% to 80%) are mimeographed by individual campuses
for their own use. The Center for the Exchange of Mimeographed Teaching
Materials (within the HEPH) serves as a repository for unpublished manuscripts
of good quality which are recommended for use by other universities. The SEdC
operates Imported Teaching Materials Centers which are important resource
centers for authors and editors of higher education texts and also a Book
Import and Export Company.
2.8       The China National Information and Publishing Administration plays a
major role through agencies under its jurisdiction, including the China
Printing Corporation, the China Printing Materials Corporation and Xinhua
Shudian (XHS), the state book wholesaling agency. Other ministries control
allocation of raw materials and production capacity, subsidies and tax
arrangements.
2.9       Xinhua Shudian (XHS) is responsible for the distribution cf text-
books and other books. For higher education, XHS outlets in universities
twice a year estimate their book requirements and pass them on to six regional
XHS distribution centers which in turn pass them on to the appropriate
publishers. For primary and secondary textbooks similar arrangements apply,
but print runs are calculated and implemented at the provincial level in close
association with the provincial education commissions and publishing bureaus.
The provincial commissions/bureaus purchase printing masters from the PEP and
these are supplied to the local printers. When the books are ready, printers
deliver them to XHS which handles distribution of all textbooks.
2.10      The provincial arrangements mirror the central structures.
Allocation of the necessary typesetting, printing, binding and paper resources
to meet the province's requirements is based on agreements reached among
provincial a&encies that are similar to the national ones, including
provincial education bureaus, publishing bureaus and departments of finance.
E.  Issues
2.11      The Government's plan (para. 2.4) to upgrade textbooks is ambitious,
but feasible. In carrying out the program, the Government faces three major
issues: (a) how to ensure that new content and instructional methodologies
being incorporated in the 1990s textbooks are actually taught and used
effectively in classrooms; (b) how to provide a greater choice of textbooks at
all levels, so that specific needs can more effectively be met; and (c) how to
keep textbooks affordable while improving production quality.
2.12      Ensuring Effective Classroom Use of New Materials.  SEdC is under-
taking a significant reform of the syllabus and curriculum for primary and
secondary schools. In keeping with the principles of the educational reform,
the new curriculum will: (a) emphasize both contemporary content and modern
teaching methods; (b) emphasize the application of knowledge to the local
environment; (c) provide training for work, in recognition that secondary



-9-
education will be terminal for the vast majority of students; and (d) develop
thinking skills. These objectives represent a significant departure from past
classroom practices in China. Special care will have to be taken to ensure
that the new materials are comprehensible to students and acceptable to
teachers, and thRc teachers are properly trained in their use, at both
preservice and inservice levels.
2.13      In China, the numbers of full-time teachers involved is very large:
about 5.4 million at the primary level, about 2.2 million at the lower
secondary level. Preliminary plans for nationwide teacher inservice training
are already under discussion. Four main communication channels would be used.
(1) Teachers' reference books will be written to accompany each textbook.
Such reference books, which are customary in China, are more extensive than
teachers' guides familiar in western countries. They provide not only
suggestions about pedagogy, but also substantive content that helps deepen the
teacher's knowledge about the subject matter being taught. (2) Face-to-face
instruction would be provided through Institutes of Education (which are being
supported under the recently approved Teacher Training Project, Credit 1908-
CHA) by instructors who have been trained through a system of cascading
training that originates with the textbook authors in Beijing. (3) Television
courses, delivered through the Educational Television network (being supported
in part by the Polytechnics/Television University Project, Credit 1411-CHA)
will demonstrate the new teaching methodologies appropriate for use with the
new textbooks. (4) Pedagogical journals exist for almost every school
subject. At present, about 100,000 to 200,000 are distributed. These
jourrals present information to teachers on a regular basis and will be used
as a supplement to the communication channels already described. Distribution
of the journals is expected to increase to provide coverage of village
schools, as well as the city and county schools that presently receive them.
Although four channels of communication for information about the new
textbooks already exist, they must be strengthened and used in a coordinated
way. Therefore, the Government will be asked to develop a plan for teacher
training, to be submitted to the Association before the new textbooks begin to
be distributed (para. 3.3).
2.14      Limited Choice of Textbooks.  On the whole, Chinese educators
express much dissatisfaction with having so little choice among textbooks.
Variety in texts is essential to meet the learning needs of students that
differ iT. ability level and prior knowledge, and to reflect China's cultural
and geographical diversity. The new curriculum gives greater emphasis to the
principle of allowing teachers to choose from a range of materials.
2.15      Providing texts with different difficulty levels and approaches is
also crucial for universities and colleges. Students studying in highly
selective institutions will be better prepared, and able to handle more
sophisticated material, than average students, and the texts for both groups
should be appropriately designed. This type of differentiation is not yet
widespread in textbooks for higher education in China. Several methods are
being adopted to increase authorship, including considering publication as one
factor in university promotion decisions. However, a major constraint is the
shortage of typesetting and printing facilities. On average, there is a 12-24
month gap between approval of a manuscript and its date of publication.



- 10 .
2.16      Maintaining Textbook Affordability.  Under the present textbook
policy (para. 2.1) students purchase textbooks each semester. Selling prices,
which are fixed by Governmental guidelines, are designed to recover the
financial cost of book production. The textbook upgrading program would
produce textbooks with color illustrations, more durable covers, stronger
binding and better quality paper. The cost of manufacturing the fully
upgraded primary and secondary textbooks is estimated to be about twice that
for the existing textbooks.  However, using the present price guidelines,
which are based on current printing technology and equipment, the selling
prices would be about three times higher than the prices for present texts.
Thus, newer, more efficient machinery and the intended use of a new type of
domestically produced offset paper would result in significantly lower costs.
In light of these changes, new, more flexible arrangements for dettrmining
prices need to be adopted. Should income not cover costs, subsidies would
have to 'ze provided either centrally or by local authorities. Actions to be
taken are described in paras. 4.9 to 4.11.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Strategy
3.1       The proposed project would support the government's program to
upgrade primary, secondary and tertiary level textbooks (paras. 2.3-2.4).
Specifically, the main objectives of the project are to:
(a) assist in updating the content and pedagogy of the new set of
primary and secondary textbooks;
(b) support the development of audiovisual aids and expand the library
collection and facilities used for research and manuscript
development;
(c)  introduce modern technology for preparing and editing textbook
manuscripts, typesetting, printing and binding;
(d) support a coordinated program of equipment purchase in order to
develop maximum compatibility between various machines and an
appropriate level of standardization;
(e) improve publishing and production management, upgrade technical
skills of publishers and workers; and
(f) improve book distribution mechanisms.
B. Project Components
3.2       The project would comprise the following components:
(a) provision of equipment, books and teaching materials for CTMRI, PEP
and SEdC to improve the educational effectiveness of textbooks;



- 11 -
(b) provision of equipment and civil works for the HEPH printing
factory, the PEP printing factory, and the Beijing Printing
Institute;
(c) provision of equipment and civil works for printing factories in 22
provinces;
(d) provision of equipment and civil works for 21 university publishing
houses and printing factories; and
(e) provision of training and technical assistance in support of (a) to
(d) above to achieve all project objectives.
First Component: PEP. CTMRI and SEdC (proposed outlay US$1.7 million
excluding contingencies and technical assistance).
3.3       Content and pedagogy.  Curriculum development for the new textbooks
began in 1986. The new curriculum will be based on the "inquiry-based" method
of teaching which has been used in other parts of the world as an alternative
to "rote" learning (para. 2.4). Since this method differs substantially from
that currently used in most classrooms in China, introduction of the new
curriculum would need to be accompanied by a revised preservice teacher
training program and by an extensive inservice orientation program using
existing infrastructure and involving the development of videotapes for
training (para. 2.13; Table 3.1). At negotiations, assurances were obtained
that SEdC would furnish to the Association for review, no later than July 1,
1990, a plan for inservice training of primary and secondary school teachers
in the use of new textbooks.
3.4       To assist CTMRI in developing an inquiry-based teaching program, the
project would finance technical assistance (paras. 3.17-3.19) and equipment of
three types: (a) samples of instructional equipment used in other countries;
(b) more advanced equipment to allow experimentation by CTMRI curriculum
researchers; and (c) general equipment to facilitate the work of the staff.
Equipment in categories (a) and (b) would cover mathematics, physics,
chemistry, biology, geography and language teaching. Detailed equipment lists
are available in project working papers.
3.5       Audio-visual materials.  The audio-visual department of PEP/CTMRI is
responsible for preparing master audio and tapes, films and slides for both
classroom instruction and teacher training. About 6 million audiotapes,
primarily for second language learning, have already been sold to schools and
individuals.   Under the project, the capacity to produce audiotapes would be
augmented to allow production of supplementary materials. The full program
for development of audiovisual materials is shown in Table 3.1.



- 12 -
Table 3.1: PLAN FOR AUDIO-VISUAL PRODUCTION: 1987-1992
Number of new master tapes
Purpose               Mode         1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  Total
General teacher     Videotapes      -     10    20    25    25    25    105
training
Inservice for new   Videotapes      -      6    20    40    50    60    176
curriculum
Teaching and cur-   Videotapes      10    20    30    3C    30    30    150
riculum research
Language teaching   Audiotapes      40    40    60    80    80    80    380
Music instruction   Audiotapes      -      4      6     8     8     8      34
General instruc-    Films           -     10    20    40    40    40    150
tional support   Slides          10    20    25    40    40    40    175
Source:  PEP/CTMRI, November 1987.
3.6       Library.  The PEP/CTMRI library serves as a resource for all authors
and editors of textbooks and as a repository for historically important text-
books and other educational materials. While the holdings are substantial
(about 400,000 books) most of the resource books are out of date. The last
major purchases were made in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The project
would finance purchase of more than 25,000 new books to augment the
coliection, and also equipment to: (a) modernize book cataloging; (b) develop
the capacity to make and read microfiche copies; (c) facilitate review of
audio-visual materials from China and abroad; and (d) preserve and safeguard
books.
3.7       Manuscript preparation.  At present, textbook manuscripts are
written by hand and must be recopied as they are revised. The project would
finance the purchase of about 60 microcomputers, which would be shared among
approximately 250 authors and editors, at the outset primarily for word
processing, but potentially for other uses as well. Automating manuscript
preparation and revision would significantly increase the efficiency of the
process. PEP estimates that 60 microcomputers could handle about 24 million
Chinese characters annually, about 1/3 the requirement. (It would not be
appropriate to automate immediately the entire output, since not all authors
can be expected to adapt rapidly to computer technology.) The microcomputer
software procured would be compatible with the laser typesetter software
(para. 3.10) to be obtained by the PEP printing factory. In this way, those
manuscripts being handled by computer would not need to be retyped during the
typesetting process. The project would also finance the purchase of equipment



- 13 -
to c&iplicate locally developed computer sof-_cre, which would be used in-
house, and also for instructional software developed for use in schools.
3.8       Book distribution.  Until recently, virtually all distribution of
higher education textbooks has been handled by Xinhua Shudian (para. 2.9). To
assist the university presses to increase sales by tapping new markets, SEdC
has recently established the Joint Publishing and Distribution Service Center
for University Publishing Houses which has its main office at Qinghua
University. The main task of the Joint Center is to support an alternative
distribution system which uses 55 wholesale outlets newly established in 38
cities to service orders from institutions and individuals. Information about
new publications is circulated through a monthly newsletter (eight pages in
octavo size) published by the Joint center and distributed to universities,
colleges and pAytechnics and also to organizations engaged in scientific
research and development. About 100,000 copies of the newsletter are p'inted
and it is available by subscription for a small fee through the post office.
About 90 university and other publishing houses have affiliated with the Joint
Center. Each pays a modest fee for each book announcement included in the
newsletter. The project would finance a vehicle and equipment to print the
newsletter and monitor inventories and sales.
Second Component:  HEPH and PEP Printing Factories. Beijing Printing Institute
(groposed outlay. USS13.4 million excluding contingencies and technical
assistance)
3.9       HEPH Drinting factory.  HEPH is responsible for the production of
texts for core higher education courses in all universities and colleges in
China. In 1987, this represented about 20% of higher education published
titles and 18% of number of copies. The projected number of 2,000 titles for
1995 would represent about 17% of higher education published texts (Table
3.2). At present HEPH has no printing factory and must make use of more than
100 factories around the country, a circumstance that not only consumes time
in locating unused factory capacity, but results in uneven quality of output.
In 1986, SEdC agreed to assist HEPH in building a new factory in Tianjin. By
1995, when the first phase is operating to capacity, the new HEPH factory will
be able to manufacture about 38% of HEPH's output. (The continued existence
of multiple suppliers of printing would be expected to maintain competitive
pressure on the HEPH factory, and therefore encourage efficient operation.)
The remainder will still have to be contracted to other printing factories.
The project would finance equipment for typesetting, plate-making, printing
and binding, to be housed in the new factory which will manufacture texts for
inservice training, TV university courses, and specialized upper secondary
schools as well as core higher education courses.



14 -
Table 3.2: PROJECTED EXPANSION OF HIGHER EDUCATION
TEXTBOOK OUTPUT: 1986-1995
Actual - 1986             Target - 1995
Total    HEPH         Total           HEPH
Number of titles             8,200  1,560           11,700         2,000
(of which new)              (3,500)  (415)          (7,000)        (500)
Number of copies               187     33              374            68
(million)
Typesetting (million
Chinese characters)        1,060    120           2,900            150
Paper (thousand reams)       2,200    340           4,400            800 /
JA   About 300,000 reams by HEPH factory.
Source: SEdC, March, 1988.
3.10      PEP Rrinting factory.  The PEP factory plays two quite different
roles in textbook production. For primary and lower secondary texts the
factory typesets the books written by PEP/CTMRI and prepares printing masters
which are sold to provincial education or publishing bureaus. At present,
virtually all masters are paper matrices (molds of lead type made from papier
mache); as the number of offset presses increases, printing masters will
increasingly be made from film. The expected shift in output is shown in
Table 3.3. For other categories of books for teacher training, nursery
schools and adult education; trial versions of textbooks under development;
and wall charts and otlher non-text teaching aids, (Annex 1, Table 1) the
factory completes the entire production process, from typesetting through
printing and binding. Between 1986 and 2000 PEP estimates a three-fold
increase in the number of titles and a four-fold increase in the number of
copies printed (Table 3.3). The project would finance a laser typesetting
system, an electronic color sc4nner, a four-color sheet-fed press, and
auxiliary and related equipment tc assist the factory increase its output and
improve the efficiency of production.



- 15 -
Table 3.3: PROJECTED EXPANSION OF PEP FACTORY OUTPUT: 1986-2000
1986         1990        1995         2000
(actual)
A. Prenaration of printing masters
Number of titles               395          555          585         610
Pages-paper matrices       250,300      326,000      300,000     274,000
Film-in 8-page units             -       40,000       70,000     120,000
B.  Book production
Number of titles               415          689        1,038       1,327
Number of copies
(million)                     30           74         113          132
Source: SEdC, November 1987
3.11      Beijing PrintinZ Institute.  BPI, established in 1978 to provide
systematic training in printing skills for the printing industry nationwide,
is administered by the China National Information and Publishing
Administration, with guidance from SEdC. About 170 teaching staff and 250
others run several programs, including four-year post-secondary courses for
printing engineers and technicians, and two-year in-service courses for
experienced technicians, providing technical upgrading and training in
printing management; and shorter length courses designed for specific
audiences. In 1987 about 650 students were enrolled in the long-term
programs. This number is expected to reach 1,003 in 1988. In September 1987,
60 technicians from university printing houses began a six-month upgrading
program; a second similar course will cater for technicians involved with
primary/secondary textbook printing. Both courses will be repeated in
subsequent years. The project would finance purchase of a four-color sheet-
fed offset printing machine to complement the other modern equipment being
acquired by BPI for training purposes.
Third Component: Provincial Printing Factories (proposed outlay, US$59.8
million excluding contingencies and technical assistance).
3.12      Factories in every province participate in printing textbooks for
primary and secondary schools, using printing masters prepared by PEP



- 16 -
(Annex 1, Table 2).3/ Within provinces, printing tasks are allocated to
factories by provimcial bureaus of education or publishing bureaus
(arrangements differ slightly among provinces). Through consultation with
provincial authorities, SEdC has selected 33 factories which would comprise 30
printing centers in 22 provinces (Annex 1, Table 4). To participate, a
province had to agree to repay credit funds in foreign exchange; to finance
necessary civil works; and to provide counterpart funds for purchzse of
equipment and other purposes. The selected factories fulfilled the following
conditions:
(a) In the past, the factory has manufactured at least 25% of the local
quota of textbooks, and agrees to continue doing so;
(b) At least 97% of its annual production regularly passes quality
control standards;
(c) The factory has a staff of at least 200, including at least 10
engineers and technicians and good facilities for technical
training;
(d)  The present buildings are well built, little civil works would be
needed to accommodate new equipment; preseut equipment is relatively
complete and well maintained; and new equipment could be operational
witUn three months of delivery; and
(e) The factory has a warehouse of at least 500 sq.m; facilities for
dispatching shipments; good transport facilities; and is located
near a railway station.
3.13      The investment program for each province would be described in a
Project Implementation Agreement executed between SEdC and the provincial
authorities, which would cover at least the following points: (a) the list of
factories to be supported and certification that the identified factories
satisfy the criteria noted in para. 3.12; (b) agreement to provide any
counterpart funds required for the use and maintenance of equipment; (c) the
amount of credit funds allocated to the province under the project;
(d) agreement to establish and maintain a Project Implementation Office and to
carry out the project activities as agreed; (e) assurance that an adequate
quantity of paper of the right quality would be supplied for textbook
production; and (f) agreement to give first priority to textbook production in
the use of equipment procured under the project. A draft format for the
Project Implementation Agreement has been provided to the Association for
review and has been found to be acceptable.
5/   At present, provision of textbooks is handled within provinces and there
is virtually no interprovincial trade (except for some experimental books
and books in minority languages). The procurement of texts locally can be
expected to remain in place for some time until the regional economies in
China are better integrated.



- 17 -
3.14      The project would finance pzinting equipment to assist each province
in meeting production targets for the new round of textbooks, beginning in
1991. The allocation of machines is shown in Annex 1, Table 3. Provincial
color printing requirements to meet upgraded standards will be met in full
(within 3% for all provinces except one, for which the short fall would be 6%)
by equipment purchases under the project. By 1995, when the phased
introduction of new textbooks is complete, the annual output of primary and
secondary textbooks would be about 2.4 billion copies, of which 50% would use
color.
Fourth Comnent:  University Publishing Houses and Printing Factories
(proposed outlay, US$25.3 million excluding contingencies and technical
assistance)
3.15      University presses account for about 35% of published higher
education textbooks in China.6/ SEdC has selected 21 presses (about 25% of
the total), which cover major regions of the country and major
specializations, to participate in the project (Annex 2, Table 1). Together,
in 1986, these presses produced about 60% of the total output of university
presses. Although they are the largest and amorg the most productive in
China, the presses are beset by shortcormings in skilled staff and in the
capacity to manufacture books efficiently. Because of bottlenecks in
manufacture and preparation of manuscripts for printing as well as a shortage
of edited manuscripts, the textbook requirements for most university courses
must be filled through locally produced, unedited mimeographed lecture notes
(para. 2.2). The project would assist the 21 identified university presses to
overcome these constraints through a program of training and technical
assistance (paras. 3.17-3.19) and through the purchase of equipment to expand
typesetting and printing capacity. By 1992 output would be increased by 360%
for typesetting and 250% for printing (Table 3.4). About 85 million textbooks
would be produced annually to ulpgraded specifications, about 63% of the
projected output of university presses.
6/   HEPH publishes 20%; the -emaining 45% are published by line ministry
presses.



- 18 -
Table 3.4: PL:OJECTED EXPANSION OF OUTPUT FROM UNIVERSITY PRESSES:
1986-1992
1986 (Actual)                  1992 (Targeted)
Typesetting  Paper              Typesetting   Paper
Titles  (mln Chinese ('000    Titles   (mln Chinese   ('000
(No.)    characters) reams)    (No.)    characters)   reams)
81 university
presses       2,850         727     1080     4,880         2,000     1,582
(% increase)         -           -        -       (71)         (175)      (41)
21 university
presses         837         180      265     3,580           830       933
(% increase)         -           -        -      (328)         (361)     (252)
Source: SEdC, March 1988.
3.16      For purposes of allocating equipment, the 21 universities have been
grouped on the basis of studies of publishing requirements, carried out by
SEdC during project preparation, and an inventory of present equipment. Two
university presses would receive only typesetting equipment. Others would
receive larger numbers of equipment, as shown in Annex 2, Table 2.
Arrangements have been made for project university presses receiving
typesetting equipment to service the typesetting needs and, in some cases,
printing needs of other nearby university presses. These twinning
arrangements are listed in Annex 2, Table 3.
Fifth Component: Training and Technical Assistance (proposed outlay, US$2.2
million excluding contingencies)
3.17      In the past, book design and layout considerations have been largely
ignored since most school texts conformed to similar traditional patterns.
Curriculum and pedagogical research has been undertaken by the writers of
school materials who have also acted as editors. To improve the quality of
texts (para. 2.4), PEP/CTMRI staff require exposure to new pedagogical
approaches and to training in writing and editing. The separation of
authorship and editorial functions needs to be seriously considered and this
would require training in-country and exposure overseas to modern methods of
editorial and publishing management. Specific training in design would also
be required, as well as training of managing editcrs in the skills and
techniques for working with and managing designers, illustrators and artists
and of coordinating their work with that of authors and production staff.
3.18      At the higher education level, the critical factors are the rapid
increase in the numbers and sizes of publishing houses, resulting in
recruitment of large numbers of new and untrained staff, and the introduction



- 19 -
of competitive publishing as a means of upgrading quality. This implies the
learning and absorption of new skills in such areas as sales and marketing,
financial management, and stock control which were previously unknown in
higher education publishing in China. Senior publishing managers also need to
improve their editorial, design and promotion skills and senior administrative
staff to expand their skills in management and organization issues related to
publishing.  Staff of BP' (para. 3.11) would benefit from exposure to overseas
printing training establishments as well as expert advice on the use of modern
equipmenm to improve their training programs.
3.19      To address the needs for skill development, the project would
support a coordinated program consisting of: (a) study tours; (b) fellowships,
comprising mainly secondments to overseas publishing houses; (c) visits to
China by foreign experts; (d) training courses in China designed and conducted
by foreign experts; (e) training courses in China designed and conducted by
local experts; (f) attendance of project personnel at existing courses and
training programs on printing, publishing and distribution; and (g) training
provided in China or overseas by equipment manufacturers (Annex 5). The first
four components would be managed by an experienced agency selected by SEdC and
satisfactory to IDA. Draft terms of reference for the management agency are
in Annex 6. Secondments would be aimed at senior staff and would be designed
to provide both exposure to the methodologies of modern publishing and
materials development and practical experience in publishing work. The
majority of training and skill upgrading would take place within China
(Annex 5, Tables 1 and 3). Foreign experts invited to China would train
senior publisher., work with publishing training institutions on the
development of relevent course outlines and materials, and provide, on
request, consulting services to address specific problems and difficulties.
Candidates for publishing training in English speaking countries would be
required to have a minimum ELTS score of 6 (or equivalent EPT score).
Slightly lower scores would be acceptable for those being placed for technical
or printing training. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that by
July 1 of each year, an annual training plan would be furnished to the
Association for review and training would be carried out in accordance with
the agreed program.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
4.1       Summary of Costs.  The total cost of the project including
contingencies is estimated at Y 457.3 million or US$114.6 million equivalent.
The estimated costs by project component and category of expenditure are
summarized below in Tables 4.1 and 4.2.  Detailed costs are presented in
Annex 3.
4.2       Cost Estimates.  Base costs are expressed in mid-1988 prices.  Civil
works costs were based on approved building proposals for the various
components with acceptable area allocations. Equipment costs were based on
detailed lists and estimated unit prices of similar imported or locally
available items. Books and instructional materials costs were based on



- 20 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS /a BY COMPONENT
Y million                US$ Million                      S base
Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign   Total  foreign    cost
PEP/CMTRI/SEdC                1.95    4.46    6.42       0.53    1.21      1.73   69.6       1.7
HEPH/PEP printing
factories/BPI             21.01   28.60   49.61       5.68    7.73    13.41   57.7        13.1
Provincial printing
factories                109.85  111.49  221.33    29.69   30.13    59.82   50.4          58.4
University publishing
and printing               34.68   58.97   93.65      9.37   15.94    25.31   63.0        24.7
Training                      2.29    2.62    4.91       0.62    0.71      1.33   53.3       1.3
Specialist services           0.74    2.37    3.11      0.20    0.64       0.84   76.2       0.8
Total Base Cost       170.52  208.51  379.04    46.09   56.36   102.44   55.0    100.0
Physical contingencies        8.53   10.43   18.95       2.30    2.82      5.12   55.0       5.0
Price contingencies          21.83   37.50   59.33       2.57    4.42      6.99   63.3       6.8
Total Project Cost   200.88  256.43  457.31    50.96   63.60   114.55   55.5    111.8
/a Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 21 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS /a BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Y million                US$ million              X       2 base
Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign   Total  foreign    cost
Civil works                  69.96   12.35   82.31    18.91    3.34    22.25   15.0         21.7
Equipment                    97.34  189.70  287.04    26.31   51.27    77.58   66.1         75.7
Books and educational
materials                   0.19    1.48    1.67       0.05    0.40      0.45   88.9       0.4
Training                      2.29    2.62    4.91       0.62    0.71      1.33   53.3       1.3
Specialist services           0.74    2.37    3.11      0.20    0.64       0.84   76.2       0.8
Total Base Cost       170.52  208.51  379.04    46.09   56.36   102.44   55.0    100.0
Physical contingencies        8.53   10.43   18.95       2.30    2.82      5.12   55.0       5.0
Price contingencies          21.83   37.50   59.33       2.57    4.42      6.99   63.3       6.8
Total Project Cost   200.88  256.43  457.31    50.96   63.60   114.55   55.5    111.8
/a Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 22 -
similar items recently procured in other education projects in China. Study
tours were estimated at US$5000 per four week trip and overseas fellowships at
US$6000-8500 per three to six-month term. Domestic seminars for senior staff
were estimated at US$400 per person and domestic training at US$600 per staff-
year. Costs of foreign specialists were estimated at an average of US$14,500
per staff-month including travel. Project-financed goods are expected to be
exempted from import duties and taxes. Physical contingencies expressed in
foreign exchange (US$5.2 million) represent 5% of base costs. Price
contingencies (US$7.0 million), 6.8% of base costs, were estimated on the
basis of the implementation schedule and expected annual price increases as
follows: local - 8% for 1988, 7% for 1989 and 6.5% for 1990 and thereafter;
foreign - 3% for 1988-1990, and 4% for 1991 and thereafter. Total
contingencies are estimated at about 11.8% of base costs when expressed in
US$.
4.3       Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
are estimated at about Y 256.4 million (US$63.6 million equivalent). Based on
an analysis of expenditures of other projects in China, the foreign exchange
component for the major categories of the proposed project was estimated as
follows: (a) civil works 15%; (b) equipment 66% (based on an assessment of
locally available items and sophisticated items that would need to be
imported); (c) books and educational materials 89%; (d) training 53%; and
(e) specialist services 76%.
B. Financing
4.4       Investment Costs.  Of the total investment costs of about US$114.6
million equivalent, 50% will be financed by the proposed credit of US$57
million. Credit funds of about SDR 35 million would be relent to provincial
authorities through SEdC at an interest rate of 2.5%, repayable over a period
of 15 years, including a five-year grace period. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by MOF. The terms and conditions of relending the proceeds of
the Credit to the provinces are satisfactory to Association. Together, the
central and provincial governments will finance the remaining US$59.6 million
(52% of total investment costs).
4.5       The financing plan and credit allocations by category of expenditure
are presented below in Table 4.3.



- 23 -
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
Central and
Provincial                            t
Governments      IDA    Total        IDA
-------- US$ million -------      Financing
Civil works                          23.65          -    23.65           -
Equipment                            32.90     55.06      87.95       62.5
Books & educational materials         0.05      0.44       0.49       88.9
Training                              0.72      0.79       1.51       52.3
Specialist services                   0.23      0.71       0.95       75.5
Total Project Costs              57.55     57.00    114.55        49.8
C. Cost Recovery and Financial Impact
Textbook Pricing
4.6       Present situation.  At the present time, the textbook sector is
highly controlled. Many of the required raw materials are supplied to the
printing houses under the materials allocation system at fixed state prices,
and, as a consequence, almost all textbooks are sold at fixed prices
determined centrally. Moreover, printing contracts are handled on an
administrative basis, and the authorities in each province assign contracts
for textbook production to printing houses within their own province. The
basic policy governing pricing is that: (a) all development and manufacturing
costs should be recovered; and (b) printers and publishers should make a small
profit (about 5%). Prices are fixed centrally with these goals in mind, and a
fixed distribution margin of 30% is included in the selling price. Recently,
it has not been possible to meet condition (a) fully and subsidies have been
necessary.  Nationally these amounted in 1987 to about 25 million yuan (US$6.8
million) for primary and secondary and about 15 million yuan (US$4.1 million)
for higher education textbooks. It should be noted that at the present time
these subsidies are provided to the publishers to cover their losses, rather
than to the users.
4.7       Future plans.  The new typesetting and printing equipment, combined
with new production standards, to be introduced beginning in 1991, will change
the costs of manufacturing books.7/ Theref-re. it will be necessary to adjust
7/   The manufacturing cost of present and upgraded textbooks is analyzed in
the sector report (paras. 4.15-4.29). Based on input prices prevailing in
November 1986, the unit production cost of upgraded primary textbooks
printed in 4-color using 70 gsm paper and in international standard size
(comprising about 25% of total) is projected to be about 2.3 times the
present level (i.e. black and white using 52 gsm paper). Increase in unit
production cost of the remaining upgraded primary and secondary textbooks



- 24 -
prices of primary and secondary textbooks (para. 2.16) to avoid losses. To
respond to the new situation, and consistent with the economic reform program,
the government intends to reform the way in which the prices for textbooks are
determined and plans to phase out centrally determined, fixed prices. Tki
policy of recovering costs and assuring a small profit would remain, and the
publishing houses would be free to agree with provincial authorities on the
prices for their products that are necessary to achieve these aims within
broad limits established by SEdC. At the same time, the Government would in
the long run be phasing out the plan allocation of materials for the sector,
and the publishing houses would be expected to procure their own materials in
the market. Therefore, to ensure that textbook prices are in line with cost,
the government would monitor the situation across provinces, and be in a
position to advise provincial authorities of the reasonableness of the
provincial printing houses' requests for price changes. SEdC would monitor
not only book prices and publishers' profit margins, but also the costs of
production to encourage publishers and printers to be efficient. The
objective would be that different prices would mainly reflect the different
costs of inputs and the different manufacturing technologies, not the
different levels of efficiency experienced in different provinces.
4.8       In addition, it is expected that arrangements with Xinhua Shudian
(XHS), the national book distribution company, would be changed. The change
would allow fees to be negotiated between XHS and individual publishers, in-
stead of being based on a fixed percentage of selling price nationwide. With
these changes, in the future, textbook prices would reflect more nearly the
realities of input and production costs. It can be expected that prices will
vary from province to province, depending on the speed with which the printing
processes are upgraded in the different provinces, and depending on variations
between provinces in the -osts of inputs. In summary, the following
principles would govern textbook pricing: (a) development and manufacturing
costs would be recovered (except for certain higher education texts);
(b) printers and publishers would make only a small profit on educational
publishing (5%); (c) publishing houses would be free to agree with provincial
authorities on prices to achieve these aims, within broad limits established
by SEdC; (d) costs and prices would be expected to vary between provinces; and
(e) the government would monitor production costs to encourage efficiency.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that the above principles,
(a).. .(e), would guide textbook pricing decisions for textbooks produced under
the project.
Financial Impact and Affordability
4.9       According to questionnaires completed by provincial governments for
1986, household spending on all books including textbooks varied greatly,
reflecting differences in income of households and location, as shown in Table
which involves 2-color printing on 60 gsm paper or larger formats with black
and white printing on 52 gsm paper would be more modest. However, with the
economic reform and gradual liberalization of many of the input prices, it
is expected that the increase in manufacturing costs would be higher than
these projections.



- 25 -
4.4. Despite the variation, the expenditure is on average less than 2% of
total living expenditures.
Table 4.4: ANNUAL PER CAPITA EXPENDITURE ON BOOKS (1986)
City         Town        Rural
Amount spent on books (Y)         6.1-12.2     4.0-16.8       1.1-2.7
% of Total Expenditure             0.7-1.5      0.5-2.2       0.2-1.0
Total living expenditures (Y)   740-1,100    590-1,050        260-560
4.10      The government has maintained that significant price increases
needed to ensure cost recovery for primary and secondary textbooks are
affordable in view of rising incomes and the one-child-per-family policy.
Between 1982 and 1987, GNP per capita in China increased at an average annual
rate of about 9.5%. This rising trend is expected to continue, with GDP
estimated to grow 8-10% annually over the next three years and consumption
expected to increase more rapidly than GDP.
4.11      To reduce the burden on poorer families, the government would
require the provincial governments participating in the project to provide
subsidies for the children in the poorest counties of the country. (This
requirement has been incorporated in tte. Project Implementation Agreement
(para. 3.13) and the Government regards it as affordable to the p.rticipating
provinces.) At present, there are about 300 such counties; the children in
need represent about 5% of the students in grades one through three. The
subsidy for these students' textbooks (at about 4 yuan per student per year)
is estimated to be about 10 million yuan. Most importantly, the allocation of
the subsidies would be changed. Whereas in the past the subsidies were
granted to the producing units based on their ex-post losses, the subsidies
would in future be implemented by reducing textbook prices to schools in
target counties; this would assist the drive for greater efficiency. Some
subsidies would also continue to be necessary for higher education, because
certain texts are highly specialized and only published in small quantities.
In such cases full recovery of costs would require unacceptably high prices.
The government plans to gradually reduce subsidies for higher education texts
over the next decade. The improvement in production standards for higher
education texts that would occur as a result of the project would be more
modest than for primary texts. Therefore, increases in costs, and thus
prices, would be less steep and more affordable for students and other
readers.
V. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Management
5.1       Project management would be under the direction of the Project
Steering Committee formally established in January 1988. The Committee is



- 26 -
headed by a Vice Minister of SEdC and consist of representatives of four major
bureaus of SEdC: the Office of the NRCPSST, the Office of Teaching Materials,
Library and Information Management, the Bureau of Planning and Finance, and
the Foreign Investments Loan Office (FILO).8/ FILO would act as the
committee's secretariat. It would meet periodically to review project status,
check actual progress against the implementation timetable, identify
constraints and formulate strategies. During negotiations assurance were
obtained that the Government would maintain a Project Steering Committee to
monitor project implementation. Chart 4 shows the organization for project
management.
5.2       Day-to-day activities would be managed by project implementation
offices (PIOs) under provincial education bureaus and publishing houses,
universities, and printing factories. Many of the PIOs at provincial and
university levels have already been established during implementation of
earlier IDA-financed projects. Establishment of the remaining PIOs is
currently underway. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would establish and maintain provincial FILOs and PIOs in various
project units acceptable to the Association.
5.3       Proceeds of the credit for provincial printing factories under the
project will be relent from SEdC to participating provincial governments. The
Association has reviewed a draft format for the Project Implementation
Agreement (PIA) (para. 3.13) and has found it acceptable. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that signing of PIAs, acceptable to the
Association, for all participating provinces would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
B. Proiect Monitoring
5.4       To provide effective monitoring and evaluation of the project, three
aspects would be monitored regularly: (a) realization of expenditures; (b)
implementation of project activities; and (c) performance of the textbook
production system. Monitoring activities would be carried out by the PIOs at
various levels and coordinated by the FILO projects division.
5.5       Expenditures.  Expenditures incurred during the five-year period
would be monitored on a continuous basis and reviewed annually. In the course
of the annual reviews prepared by FILO, actual expenditures would be compared
with the agreed plan. Reasons for deviation would be identified, and actions
to be taken to overcome bottlenecks and facilitate achievement of the plans
and/or modified plans would be agreed.
5.6       Proiect Activities and Performance Indicators.  Implementation of
project activities and progress in achieving pricing reforms would be
monitored using indicators and annual or biannual which were agreed at
a/   FILO has functioned as PIO for four Bank-financed projects:  University
Development I (Loan 2021/Credit 1167-CHA); Polytechinc/TV University Project
(Credit 1411-CHA); University Development II (Credit 1551-CHA); and
Provincial University Project (Credit 1671-CHA).



- 27 -
negotiations (Annex 4).  The project performance indicators would form the
basis for annual monitoring reports to be prepared by FILO and submitted to
the Project Steering Committee and the Association. They would be used by
SEdC to monitor the performance of the various project institutions and by
managers at provincial and lower levels to monitor and compare the performance
of their individual components. In addition, progress of the textbook
improvement program for primary and secondary schools (Annex 1, Table 5) and
of the program for inservice teacher training (para. 2.13, 3.3) would be
monitored and reported on by SEdC beginning in 1991. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that the Government would by April 1, 1990 and
annually thereafter provide the Association for review and comment a progress
report on the implementation of the project and on pricing reforms and,
beginning in 1991, the textbook development and inservice teacher training
programs being undertaken in conjunction with the project.
5.7       Responsibility for preparing the project completion report would
rest with FILO which would be assisted by the various agencies/offices
involved in the project. The report would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the closing date. The impact of the new materials on teaching
styles and on learning outcome would be included in the reports as a part of
an evaluation of the implementation of the reform of basic education.
C. Implementation
5.8       Status of Project Pregaration.  Preparation for the project has been
underway since 1986, when construction of some civil works began. Since
January 1988, SEdC has been appraising subprojects. For higher education,
five teams visited eight cities, which covered 17 of 21 project universities.
The appraisal teams reviewed the adequacy of existing physical facilities and
those under construction, plans for training of staff, and the availability of
domestic counterpart funds. For primary and secondary, four teams visited 22
provinces and covered all of the project's 33 factories. These teams assessed
the suitability of project factories and their capacity for fulfilling the
tasks to be assigned under the project. Preliminary plans for the HEPH
factory, the major civil works to be included in the project, have been
reviewed by the Association. In addition, SEdC has contracted with the China
Research Institute of Printing Science and Technology (CRIPST) to review plans
for civil works and equipment for the factory. Preparation of equipment lists
is essentially complete and a General Procurement Notice was published in
April 1988. SEdC, which has responsibility for drawing up technical
specifications for equipment to be procured through both ICB and LCB, has set
up specialist committees to advise them in this work and in the work of bid
evaluation. Representatives of China Printing Corporation, China Printing
Materials Corporation, CRIPST, and the end users have been invited to serve on
these committees.
5.9       Project ImRlementation Schedule.  The project implementation
schedule is given in Annex 7. All civil works included in the project would
be completed by the end of 1989. Procurement of equipment would be phased
(para. 5.11) and all major contracts are expected to be awarded by mid-1989.
Some LCB and direct purchase may be undertaken in 1991 or 1992. Direct
purchases of books and educational materials are expected to be carried out
during 19o9 and 1990. The bulk of overseas training would take place during



- 28 -
the years 1989 to 1991 (Annex 5, Tables 2 and 4). Local training would be
conducted on an on-going basis throughout the project implementation period,
but concentrated in the early years prior to delivery of major equipment.
D. Procurement
5.10      The main items to be procured are: (a) equipment; (b) books and
educational materials; (c) training; and (d) specialist servicas. A number of
buildings under construction to house the new equipment have been included in
the project. These contracts, which are being awarded through local
procedures, will not be financed by the Association.
5.11      Eguigment.  The major equipment packages (estimated at about US$88
million), would most likely be awarded through both international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines and local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Prequalification of suppliers of major
equipment was carried out by SEdC at.d the International Tendering Company
(ITC) under the China National Technical Import and Export Corporation, an
agency authorized by SEdC to provide assistance in handling procurement, in
consultation with the Bank. Analysis of replies was completed in January
1989.   SEdC and ITC have finalized specifications and packaged bids for ICB
procurement. Only prequalified suppliers would be entitled to bid for items
for which they are prequalified. In the evaluation of bids under ICB,
qualified domestic suppliers may be eligible for a preference of 15% or
the import duty, whichever is lower. Equipment purchased would have adequate
safety protection. Although award of contracts is expected to be completed by
mid-1989, delivery of equipment is envisaged to be phased over several years
due to the large numbers of machines being procured.
5.12      Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of US$6.0 million, may be procured under contracts awarded: (i) on
the basis of local competitive bidding; or (ii) through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under Bank
Guidelines. Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of US$1.0 million may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under Bank Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
5.13      Books and Educational Materials.  Books and educational materials,
estimated to cost US$0.5 million (less than 1% of the goods) would be procured
through prudent shopping.
5.14      Technical Assistance and Training.  The project would finance study
tours and fellowships abroad, estimated to cost about US$0.8 million and
specialist services, estimated to cost about US$0.7 million. Both figures
include management fees to an experienced agency to be selected by SEdC in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. The procurement arrangements to be used for
the above categories are summarized in Table 5.1 below.



- 29 -
Table 5.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million)
_   Procurement method          Total
Category of Expenditure           ICB       LCB       Other        cost /a
Civil works                         -         -       23.65        23.65
Equipment                        58.11     29.85                  87.95
(55.06)                          (55.06)
Books & educational materials       -         -        0.49         0.49
(0.44)      (0.44)
Training                                      -        1.51         1.51
(0.79)      (0.79)
Specialist services                 -         -        0.95        0.95
(0.71)      (0.71)
Total                        58.11     29.85      56.59      114.55
(55.06)               (1.94)     (57.00)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the prospective amounts financed by the
Association.
ig  Totals represent total estimated costs per category includlng price and
physical contingencies.
5.15      Bank Review.  All goods contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or
more, and all specialist services would be subject to standard IDA pre-action
review.  All the other contracts would be subject to post-action review by the
Association.
E.  Disbursements
5.16      The proposed credit of US$57 million would be disbursed over a
period of about five years (Table 5.2). The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1994. Disbursements will be made against the following
categories of expenditures:  (a) equipment, books, and educational materials -
(i) 100% of foreign expenditures of directly imported goods; (ii) 100% of
local (ex-factory) expenditures of locally manufactured goods; and (iii) 75%
of local expenditures of the locally procured goods; (b) training and
fellowships (including overseas study tours) - 100% of total expenditures; (c)
specialist services-- 100% of total expenditures.
5.17      Because of the complexity and phased procurement procedures
recommended for this project (para. 5.10) the disbursement profile shown in



- 30 -
Table 5.2 reflects an anticipated rate of withdrawal more conservative than
the average education project in China.
Table 5.2: DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
Disbursement
IDA                    Disbursement          Cumulative       profile (%)
fiscal year            Semester   Cumulative       as % of      China education
and semester           --- (US$ million) ---        total           projects
FY89
2nd                 0.3            0.3              1              3
FY90
1st                 2.7            3.0              5             16
2nd                 6.1             9.1            16             33
FY91
1st                 8.1           17.2             30             49
2nd                10.2           27.4             48             62
FY92
1st                 8.1           35.5             62             70
2nd                 6.1           41.6             73             76
FY93
lst                 6.1           47.7             84             83
2nd                 6.2           53.9             95             90
FY94
1st                 2.1           56.0             98             94
2nd                 0.6           56.6             99            100
FY95
1st                 0.4           57.0            100
Closing Date:  June 30, 1995
5.18      Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for goods
and services with a contract value of US$200,000 or more will be supported by
full documentation. Other disbursements against programs not undertaken by
contract such as overseas fellowships would be made on the basis of Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs). FILO will be responsible for preparing withidrawal
applications for submission to the Association. To the extent practicable,
withdrawal applications will be aggregated in amounts of US$200,000 or more,
prior to submission to the Association.
5.19      SRecial Accounts.  To facilitate disbursements under the project, a
Special Account to be maintained in U.S. dollars with an authorized allocation



- 31 -
of $3.7 million to cover expected eligible expenditures during any four-month
period would be established in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Replenishment of the account would be based on monthly
statements from FILO reflecting disbursements from the Special Account for
agreed expenditures, or when the remaining balance to the account is reduced
below 50% of the initial deposit, wlhichever occurs first.
F. Accounts and Audits
5.20      Project accounts and details of the Spezial Account would be
maintained by FILO. Accounts and documentation supporting statements of
expenditure will be maintained separately and will be readily available
centrally for review by visiting Bank missions. Accounts and statements of
expenditure for each fiscal year will be prepared by FILO and audited by the
Audit Administration of the People's Republic of China (AAPRC). During
negotiations assurances were obtained that annual audit reports prepared by
AAPRC with separate opinions on the SOEs wouli be submitted to the Association
within eight months of the end of the Governments' fiscal year.  Within six
months of the Closing Date, tl'e Steering Committee, assisted by the PIOs would
submit a project completion report to the Association.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       The proposed project assists the Government's reforms in education
to support modernization of the economy. The principal benefits would be:
(a) improved educational effectiveness of textbooks;
(b) increased variety of textbooks available; and
(c) improved efficiency of textbook manufacture.
By 1995, when the phased introduction of new textbooks for primary and
secondary levels is complete, the annual output of primary and secondary
textbooks would be about 2.4 billion copies, and 50% of all textbooks for
grades 1-3 would use color. Annual output of all university presses in China
would be about 135 million books, of which 85 million (63%) would be printed
by publishing houses supported by the project using improved production
standards. The ratio of published books to mimeographed books would increase
from 1:4 to 1:1, and more efficient distribution mechaxLisms would increase
access to published textbooks in many universities now relying on mimeographed
materials. Textbooks for all levels would be more readable, have more
instructionally effective design and layout, and would be available in greater
variety. These changes would improve pedagogic effectiveness and reinforce
curricular changes being undertaken by the Government. The cost of
manufacturing textbooks in color using the more modern technology to be
financed by the project would be about one-third lower than with existing
technology.



- 32 -
6.2         Provision of equipment and training would aid the development of
the publishing and printing institutions. Specifically, it would improve
production capacity and capability in about 33 prirting factories in 22
provinces, and the publishing houses and printing factories of 21 institutions
of higher education. By providing modern equipment to supplement existing
facilities, the project would improve the efficiency of textbook manufacture
and expand the overall capacity of the printing industry in China to meet the
accelerating demand for printed reading matter throughout the society.
Technical assistance would help to strengthen key central agencies, including
the People's Education Press, thie Higher Education Publishing House, and the
Beijing Printing Institute. Training would be provided for about 6,500
publishing and printing personnel. By improving printing technology the
estimated cost (in 1986 prices) of printing textbooks on improved paper using
four colors would be approximately 25r& lower than the cost using existing
technology.
B. Risks
6.3         The major risk is that full advantage will not be taken of the
improved typesetting, printing and binding equipment to be procured and that
opportunities for improving the content, pedagogical effectiveniess and design
of textbooks will not be adequately exploited, because of failure to adopt
and/or impletment a satisfactory training and technical assistance program.
The project would mitigate the risk by using an experienced agency
satisfactory to the Association to manage the technical assistance program
(para. 3.19).
VII. AGREEMENTh REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1         During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Goverrment
would:
(a)   furnish to the Association for review, no later than July 1, 1990,
a plan for inservice training of primary and secondary school
teachers in the use of the new textbooks (para. 3.3);
(b)   carry out training in accordance with a program reviewed annually
with the Association (para. 3.19);
(c)   make the proceeds of the Credit available on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (para. 4.4);
(d)   set a policy framework to allow flexible textbook pricing in
accord with principles acceptable to the Association (para. 4.8);
(e)   maintain a Project Steering Committee to mon1tor project
implementation (para. 5.1);
(f)   establish and maintain provincial FILOs and PIOs in various
project units acceptable to the Association (para. 5.2);



- 33 -
(g)   by April 1, 1990 and annually thereafter provide to the
Association for review and comment a progress report on the
implementation of the project and on pricing reforms and,
beginning in 1991, the textbook development and inservice teacher
training programs being undertaken in conjunction with the project
(para. 5.6); and
(h)   furnish annual audit reports, including saparate opinions on the
SOEs, to the Association within eight months of the end of each
fiscal year (para 5.20).
7.2         Conditions for Credit Effectiveness would be:  (a) approval by the
State Council of the Development Credit Agreement; and (b) signing of Project
Implementation Agreements acceptable to the Association (para. 5.3).
7.3         Subject to the above conditions the Textbook Development Project
would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 41.8 million
(US$57 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity, to
the People's Republic of China.



CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
PEP Plan for Prtnting Teaching Materials and Books: 1990-2000
1990                                 1995                                 2000
Titles                 Reams/a       Titles                 lears         Titles                   RDs
Of which  Copies  of paper           Of which  Copies  of paper           Of which  Copies  of paper
Teaching materials                         Total    new       (mln)    ('000)   Total    new       (mln)    ('000)   Total    new       (alu)    ('000)
Teachers college (liberal arts)               60      20        1.44     15         80     20        1.48    22.0       100      20        1.70    30.0
Normal school                                80       20       13.00    120        100     20       16.25   150.0       120      20      19.50   180.0
Nursery school                                50      15        2.06     25         60     10        2.40    30.0        70      10       2.80    35.0
Preschool education                           50       6        7.50     20         80     30       12.00    24.0       100      20      15.00    40.0   1
Primary/secondary teacher training           51        7       15.30    100         71     20       21.30   139.0        90      19      27.00   176.4  w
Experimental teaching materials              40       15        0.40      6        130     90        1.30    18.5       240    110        2.40    36.0   1
Spare-time high school for staff and
workers                                     13       -       0.13       5         13      -        0.13     5.0        13       -       0.13      5.0
Adult education                               25       -        4.10     40         25      -        4.10    40.0        25       -       4.10    40.0
Training for nursery school teachers          20       7        2.00     10         27      7        2.70    13.5        27       -       2.70    13.;
Cards and charts for primary/secondary       40       40       4.00      20         80     40        8.00    40.0       120      40      12.00    60.0
Subtotal                               429      130      49.93    361        666    237       69.66   482.0        905    239       87.33   615.9
Exercise books                                60      60       18.00     90        122     62       36.00   180.0       122       -      36.00   180.0
General books                                200     150        6.00     60        250    100        7.50    75.0       300    150        9.00    90.0
Subtotal                               260     210       24.00    150        372    162       43.50   255.0        422    150       45.00   270.0
Total                                  689      340      73.93    511      1.038    399       113.16   737.0    1.327    389       132.33   885.9
/a ! ream - 1000 printed sides (32 pages in each side).
Source: PEP. November 1987.
- -



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Education: Printing Output and Financing
Capacity increase
Counter-    Color               With
No. of  No. of  Students,   Amount       part    printing   With    counter-
plants  cities  grades 1-3  of credit funds    shortfall credit  part funds
('000) /a   -- (USS-OOO) --  ---    ('000 reams) -
Sichuan              3       3        6,3       2,830      1,291        820      510       300
Guizhou              1       1        2,020      1,680       568        340      330       100
Yunnan               1       1        2,900      1,680       811        570      310       250
Shaanxi              1       1        2,160      1,050       703        310      280       100
Qinghai              1       1          317        730       216         80      130         0
Ningxia              1       1          345        730       362         80       80         0
Xinjiang             1       1        1,080        900       562        250      180        50
Henan                2       1        6,230      2,000       838        590      410       250
Hubei                2       2        3,910      2,070     1,800        740      310       600
Hunan                1       1        4,200      1,810     1,270        640      310       300
Guangdong            1       1        4,700      1,370     1,334        610      150       450
Jiangsu              2       2        2,890      2,160       676        410      310       100
Anhui                1       1        2,833      1,000     1,446        530      280       300
Fujian               1       1        2,330        730       616        330      230       100
Jiangxi              1       1        2,380      1,460       919        480      310       200
Shandong             1       1        4,927      2,050     2,086        940      360       600
Hebei                1       1        3,450      1,490       947        440      310       200
Shanxi               2       2        2,050      1,040       478        260      230        50
Inner Mongolia       2       2        1,187      1,000       473        260      230        50
Liaoning             3       2        1,392      1,270     1,362        300      280       250
Jilir                3       2        1,120      1,460       635        310      260        50
Heilongjiang         1       1        2,250      1,050       459        260      280         0
Total         33       30                 31,560    19,852      9,550    6,080    4,300
PEP printing
house              -       -            -      2.172         -
/a  Number projected for 1993, when all new texts would be introduced.
Source: SEdC, November 1988.



- 36 -                                     ANNEX I
Table 3
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Education: Allocation of Eut ment
(x - loan funds; o u counterpart funds)
4-color   Binding   Laud-
Type-            Plate   Web   4-color  perfector   equip-  nating    Other
setter  Scanner  maker  press   press      press       ment   machine  machines
Sichuan             -        -       -      o      xo          x         o         -         -
Guizhou             -        -       0      0        x         x         x         -
Yunnan              -        -       -      0       xo         x        xo         -         -
Shaanxi             -       -        x      -                                     _0  -  -   x
Qinghai             -        -       -      -        -         x         -         -         -
Ningxia             -        -       -      -                  x         -         -         -
Xinjlang            -        -       -      -      xo          x        xo         -         -
henan               -        -       -      o       xo         x         -         -         -
Hubei               -        -       x      o        x         x         o         -         -
Hunan               x        x       -      o      xo          x         o         -         x
Guangdong           -        -       -      0       xo         -         x         -         -
Jiangsu             -       -        -      -      xo          x
4nhui               -       -        -      o      xo          x         -        -          -
Fujian              -        -       -      o       x          x         0         0         -
Jiangxi             -        -       0      0       xo         x         0         -         -
Shand^ng            -       -        -      o      xo          x         o         -         -
Hebei               -        -       o      o        x         x         o         -
Shanxi              -       -        -      -      xo          x         -        -          x
Inner Mongolia      -       x        x      -      xo          x         -        _          _
Liaoning            -        -       -      o      xo          x         -         -         -
Jilin               -        -       -      -      xo          x         0         -         -
Heilongjiang        -        -              -       x          x         o         -         -
PEP printing
house             x       x        x      x       -x                   x        x          x
Source: SEdC, November 1988.



- 37 -                          ANNEX I
Table 4
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Factories Included in Project
Name of
Province                   printing factory                 Location
Sichuan                       Sichuan Xinhua               Chengdu
Sichuan Xinhua Color Press   Guanxian
Chongqing Xinhua             Chongqing
Guizhou                       Xinhua                       Guiyang
Yunnan                        Xinhua                       Kunming
Shaanxi                       Xi'an Xinhua                 Xi'an
Qinghai                       Xinhua                       Xining
Ningxia                       Xinhua                       Yinchuan
Xinjiang                      Xinhua                       Urunqi
Henan                         Xinhua No. 1                 Zhenzhou
Xinhua No. 2                 Zhenzhou
Hubei                         Xinhua                       Wuhan
Ernan Xinhua                 Kianning
Hunan                         Yinhua No. 1                 Changsa
Guangdong                     Xinhua                       Guangzhou
Jiangsu                       Xinhua                       Nanjing
Xuzhou Xinhua                Xuzhou
Anhui                         Xinhua                       Hefei
Fujian                        Xinlua                       Fuzhou
Jiangxi                       Xinhua                       Nanchang
Shandong                      Xinhua                       Jinan
Hebei                         Xinhua No. 1                 Baoding
Shanxi                        Xinhua                       Taiyuan
725 printing factory         Xiaoyi County
Inner Mongolia                Educational                  Baotou
(Nei Monggol)                 Tongliao Educational         Tongliao
Liaoning                      Shenyang Xinhua              Shenyang
Chaoyang Xinhua              Chaoyang
Fine Arts                    Shenyang
Jilin                         Changchun Xinhua             Changchun
Changchun Xinhua No. 2       Changchun
Yenbian Xinhua               Yanji
Heilongjiang                  Xinhua                       Harbin
Source: SEdC, November 1988.



- 38-                                  ANNEX I
Table 5
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timetable for Introduction of New Textbooks
Primary Grade Level
1    2    3       4       5     6 /a
(Year)
Chinese language         91   92   93       93     93     94
Math                     91   92   93       94     95     96
Social studies           -    -    93/b    93/a   94/a   95
7947   951b
Science                  91   92   93/a    94      94/a   95
94w            9 OF
Music                    91   91   91       91     91     91
Physical education       91   91   91       91     91     91
Fine arts                91   91   91      91      91     91
Lower Secondary Grade Level
1         2       3      4 /c
(Year)
Chinese language         91        92       93     94
Math                     92/c      93/c    94/c   95
917d      927di   37i7d
History                  91        92       93/d   93
Geography                91        92      -       -
Biology                  91        92       93/c   -
Chemistry                -         -        92/c   93
937wd
Physics                  -         92/d    92/c   93
9 937d
English                  91        91       91     91
Russian                  91        91       91     91
Japanese                 91        91       91     91
Fine arts                91        91       91     91
Physical education       91        91       91     91
Music                    91        91       91     91
6 year schools only.
/   year schools only.
/b 4 year schools only.
7di 3 year schools only.



- 39                      ~~~~~~ANNMEX 2
9table 1
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Higher Education: Printing Equipment Financing
(US$'000)
Amount        Counter-
Location       of credit    part funds
Beijing University                       Beijing             980            249
Qinghua University                       Beijing           1,080            154
Beijing Normal University                Beijing             980            155
East China Normal University             Shanghai            980            155
Central China Industrial University      Wuhan               980            188
Wuhan University                         Wuhan               980            605
Chinese People's University              Beijing             800            133
Shanghai Jiaotong University             Shanghai            800            133
Xian Jiaotong University                 Xian                800            133
Chongqing University                     Chongqing           800            133
Beijing Foreign Language Institute       Beijing             800            199
Shanghai Foreign Language Institute      Shanghai            800            282
Fudan University                         Shanghai            710            100
Central Minorities Institute             Beijing             650            265
Nankai University                        Tianjin             570            202
Nanjing Industrial University            Nanjing             370             97
Northeast Financial University           Dalian              370             72
Northeast Normal University               Changchun          370             70
Zhongshan University                     Guangzhou           370             70
Chengdu Science & Technology Univ.       Chengdu             170             24
Harbin University                        Harbin              170             24
Total                                                14,530          3,446
Beijing Printing Institute               Beijing             400              -
HEPH Printing House                      Tianjin           4,757          1,000
Source: SEdC, March 1988.



CHNA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
fther Education:  Allocation of Equipment
(x   loan funds; o - counterpart funds)
4-color
Per-                       per-    Binding   Lami-
Type-   Scan-  Cam-  Plate  Proof   Web   1-color  fector  2-color  4-color  fector    equip-  nating
setter   ner   era   maker  press  press   press   press    press    press    press        ment  machine
Beijing Unlversity                             x             x      x      x      x                x                  x                xo         o
Qinghua University                             x             x      x      x      x       x        x        x         x                 xo        x
Beijing Normal University                      x             x     x       x      x                x        x                          10         x
East Caina Roral University                    x             x     x       x              o        x        x                          xo         x
Central China Industrial University            x             x     x       x      x                x        x                          xo         x
Luhan University                                      x             x      x     xo                I        0                  x         0        0
Chinese People's University                    x                   x                               x        x         x                xo
Shanghai Jlaotong University                   x             x     x       x                       x        x                          xo         x
Uian Jiaotong University                       x             x     x       x                       x        x                           xo        I
Chongqing University                           x             x     x       x                       x        x                          xo         x
Beljlng Foreign Language Institute                           x     x       x                       x        x                          xo         0
ShangbaI Foreign Language Institute                          x     x       x                       x        0         x                xo        xo
Pudan Unlversity                                             x      x      x      x                         x         x                xo         x
Central Mlnorities Institute                                 x     x       x                       x        0         x                xo         I
Rankal Universlty                              x             x     x       x                       x       10                          xo         x
Nanjing Industrial University                  x                   x                               x                                   x0
Northeast Filancial University                 x                    x                              x                                   xo
Northeast Normal University                    x                    x                              x                                   xo
Zhongsban University                           x                    x                              x                                   xo
Chengdu Science & Technology Univ.            x                    x
Harbin University                              x                    x
Beijing Printing Institute                                                                                                     x
HEsH Printing Rouse                            -      x      x     x       x      x       x        x        x         x        x       xo         x
Sourcet SEdC, March 1988.
m1



- 41-                                               ANNEX 2
Tablea 3
CHINA
TEXSOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Publishing Houses Associated with Project Institutions
Project Press                                      Associated Publishing Houses /a
Beijing University                          Beijing Foreign Language Institute, Beijing Linguistics Institute,
Beijing Industrial Institute, Beijing Tourist Institute,
National Defense University
Qinghua University                          Beijing Agricultural Unlversity, Beijing Aviation Institute,
Beijing Industrial University, Beljing Sports University
Beijing Normal University                   Central Minorities Institute, Beijing Normal Institute, Beijlng
Post-Telegraphic University, China Political and Law University
East China Normal University                Shanghai Chinese Traditional Medicine Institute, Shanghai Foreign
Language Institute
Central China Industrial University         Wuhan Industrial University, Wuhan University, Wuhan Geological
Institute
Wuhan University                            (Central China Industrial University) /b
Chinese People's University                 Beijing Economic Institute, Beijing Foreign Trade University,
Beijing Broadcast Institute, Chinese People's Securtty
University
Shanghai Jiaotong University                Tongjl University, Central East Chemical Engineering Institute,
Shanghai Medical University
Xian Jtaotong University                    Northwest University, Northwest relecommunications - Engineering
University, Shanxl Normal University, Northwest Engineering
University
Chongqaing University                       Southwest Normal University, Southwest Jiaotong University
Beljing Foreign Language Institute          (BeiJing University) /b
Shanghai Foreign Language Institute         (East China Normal University) /b
!          Fudan Universit:                             Zhejiang University, Zhejiang Fine Arts Instittte
Ceatral Minorities Institute                (Beijing Normal University) /b
Nankai University                           Tianjin University
Nanjing Industrial University               Nanjing University
Northeast Financial University              Dalian Engineering Institute, Dalian Marine Transport Institute
Northeast Normal Universlty                 Jilin University
Zhongshan University                        South China Engineering Institute, Guangdong Higher Education
Press
Chengdu Sclence 6 Technology Univ.          Chengdu Telecommunications and Engineering Institute, Southwest
Financial University, Sichuan University
Harbin University                           Northeast Forestry University, Harbin Ship Engineering Institute
/   To share typesetting and plate making equipment.
Project lnstltution (reflects sharing among project institutions).
Source: SEdC, March 1988.



CHINA
TU30EOSW DVLII EIT PROJECT
Annma Distribution of Expendituree
(US$ NiLlion)
1989              1990              1991              1992               1993              1994                   TOTAL
Loe;i For;i4n    Locli  Foreign    Loc-a  ForeitLn    Lc   Foreign    Lo    Forein           h    Forei      Lol Foreign    Total
PE;tR;EoCPI  OITRIIS  EdC~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~     ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~
CLvil Works                       0.04     0.01      0.04     0.01                                                                              0.08     0.01
Equipment                                            0.20     0.40      0.20     0.40                                                           0.40      .79      1
Book. I Eduucational Materials                       0.03     0.20     0.03     0.20                                                            0.09     0.80     0.45
Total Bae Cost                  0.04     0.01      0.26     ^.60     0.23     0.60                                                            0.53     1.21     1.75
>Ie f le Centtr4erJ I St          0.00     0.00    0.01      0.03     0.01     0.03                                                            0.06
Price Centingene                                     0 01     0.02     0.01     0.04                                                            0.02     0.00
0.01  0.04                                                                   o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~002 006 
Subtotal                        0.04     0.01     0.29     0.69      0.25     0.66                                                            0.98     1.32     1.90
EPEIPEP PriLtLig FactorlseaBPI
Civil Works                       2.34      0.41     2.34     0.41                                                                              4.68     0.83     5.50
Equipmnt                                             0 39     2.32     G.43     2.94     0.09     0.82     0.09      0.82                       1.00     4.91     7.91
Total Base Coat                 2.34      0.41     2.73     2.7S     0.43     2.94     0.09     0.82     0.09      0.82                       5.68     7.73    13.41
Pbltea  Cntugec051S          0.12     0.02     0:14     0:14      0:02     0:13     0:00     0:04     0:00     0:04                        0.8      0390U
Pr coCl ontinm                                       0.09 e.0          0.0 80 o 8os 819  8.0 ol     0 8.0 80  812                               g1 02S   803 862
Subtotal                        2.46      0.43     2.95     2.95     0.48     3.28     0.10     0.95     0.11      0.9                        6.10     8.60    14.70
Provincal lPrinting Factories
Civil  orks                       4.81      0.85     2.99     03 03             0.08                                                            8.23     1.45     9.68
EquLpnt                                              3.3      3. 13    6.92     9.46     3.51     8.03      5.31     8.03                      21.46    26.68    50.14
Total Baa  Cost                 4.81     0.85      6.52     3.68     7.34     9.54     5.51     8.03     5.51      6.03                      29.69    30.13    59.s2
Phtaecl Contigec     3i 0.24                0.04     0.3               0.37     0.48     0.28     0.40      0.28     0.40                       1.48     1.31      2.99
Price Contingeny                                     0 21     012      0.47     0.61     0.97     0.83      0.82     1.20                       2.07     2.76      4.83
Subtotal                        5.03      0.89     7.05     3.98     8.18    10.63     6.35     9.26     6.61      9.63                       3.24    34.40    67.64 
University PublIshing I PrLnting
Ci;il Works                       4.34      0.77     1.59     0.28                                                                              3.93     1.05      6.97
EquIp nt                                             1.82     5.21     1.07     5.81     0.28     1.94      0.28     1.94                       3.t5    14.89    18.34
Total BSae Coat                 4.34      0.77     3.41     5.49     1.07     5.81     0.28     1.94      0.28     1.94                       9.37    15.94    23.31
Pbhsical Conttigeny 6 52          0.22      0.04     0.17     0.Z7     0.05     0.29     0.0        .0      0.01     0.10                       0.47     0.60      1.27
Price Contingency                                    0.11     0.17     0.07     0.37       .S03   0.20      0.04     0.29                       0.23     1.04      1.28
Subtotal                        4.56      0.80     3.69     5.94     1.19     6.47     0.32     2.23      0.33     2.32                      10.09    17.77    27.86
Tralning
Overceas FellovshipalStudy Tours                              0.29              0.21               0.17              0.05                                 0.71     0.71
omsic Training                                    0.12              0.12              0.12              0.12               0.12              0.62              0.62
Specialist Services - Forei4n                                 0.23              0.25              0.13               0.03                                0.64      0.64
Specilllst Services - Local                          0.04              0.01              0.04               0.04              0.04              0.20               0.20
Total Basa Cost                                    0.16     0.52     0.16     0.45     0.16     0.30      0.16     0.08     0.16              0.82     1.33      2.17
Phys,Ica  Contingency 0 52                           0.01     0.03     0.01     0.02,    0.01     0.01      0.01     0.00     0.01              0.04      0.07     0.11
Price Contingency                                    0.01     0.02     0.01     0.03    0.02      0.03      0.02     0.01     0.03              0.09     0.09      0.18
Subtotal                                           0.18     0.56     0.18     0.50    0.19      0.34      0.20     0.10     0.20              0.95     1.50      2.45
Total Project Cost
Civil Works                       11.53     2.03     6.95     1.23     0.43     0.08                                                           18.91      3.34    22.25
Equlpment                                            5 95    11 08     861    18. 61     5.87    10.79      5.87    10.79                      26.31    51.27    77.58
Books I Educational Materials                        0.03     0.20     0.03     0.20                                                            0.05      0.40     0.45
Training                                             0.12     0.29     0.12     0.21     0.12      0.17     0.12     0.05     0.12              0.62      0.71     1.33
Specialfst Services                                  0.04     0,23     0.04     0.25     0.04     0.13      0.04     0.03     0.04              0.20      0.64     0.84
Base Cost                      11.53      2.03    13.08    13.02     9.23    19.34     6.04    11.09      6.04    10.87     0.16             46.09    56.36   102.44           0 
Phrslcal Contingencies          0.58      0.10       65     0.65     0.46     0.97     0.30     0.5S      0.30     0.54     0.01              2.30      2.82     5.12
Co-tingencles                                0.42     0.41     0.59     1.24     0.62     1.15     0.90      1.62     0.03              2.57     4.42     6.99
Total Project Cost             12.11      2.1    14.15    11.09    10.29    21.55      6.96    12.79      7.24    13.04     0.20             50.96    63.60   114.33            _ w
----------- -  -                               - -------- ------  --     --       ----------------------               -----------------    -



CHINA
TUTBK DE9EI   PROJECT
Amja  DL.tributioa of Kapndturea
(R38 r Million)
1989              1990               1991               1992               i9i3               f9 4
Local Foreign       ocl Fore  ign    Local Foreain    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  ForaLgn    Local  Foreln    Total
PEP IOffRI ISEdC
Civil Works                         0.11     0.03      014      0.05                                                                                  .29     0.0      40.34
Elqulpa                                                074      1.47      074      1.47                                                              14        .5       44
oos   6    .tlonal HaterlaLs                           0.09     0.74      0.'09    0.74                                                              0.19     1.10     1.0
Total BsM  Cost                   0.14     0.03     0.98      2.23     0.83      2.21                                                              1.95     4.46      6.42
Palc&  Contingencr 0 51             0.01     0.00     0.03      0.11     0.04      0.11                                                              0.10     0.22      8.7
r co0 ContIngency                                     0.08     0.18      0.15     0.35                                                              0.:211    0.3      0.a ;3
Subttotl                         0.13      0.03     1.10      2.52     1.00      2.66                                                              2.26     5.21      7.47
b3EPIIBP Printing FsctorlesflPI
Civil- --------------ka                      15                                                                                                     17.1       .0      2.5
Bqipmt                              8.65     1.53      t: 5     837    1.58    10.88        0.54      3.05     0.54      5.05                       3170    25.A     9  29.2'
Totel BDo   Coat                 8.65      1.53    10.10    10.10      1.58    10.88      0.34      3.05     0.34      3.05                       21.01    28.60    49.41
abelC   inec  651                 0.43      0.08     051      0.30      0.08     0.54      0.02     0.15      0.2      010I.5                                         34
tce ContInncy n   e 53                       0.08     8 0.81    0.81      0.25     1.70     0.08      0.72     0112      09?                         1.2       4 20      .4
Subtotal                          9.09     1.60    11.42    11.42      1.91    13512      0.43      5.92     0.46       .17                       25310    34.25    57.53
Provincl&l Prlnting Factories
Civil Worka                        17.80     3.14    11.05      1.95      1.59     0.28                                                             3.4        53       58
Eqsen1.t                                              13.07    11.87    25.159    35.02    20.38    29.71    20.38    29.71                         7941   1006127  185512
Total Base Cost                 17.80      3.14    24.12    13.62    27.18    35.30    20.38    29.71    20.38    29.71                          109.85   111.49   221.33
PacaL Conttgency 0 51               0.89     0.16      1 21     0.8      1.36     1.76     1.02      1.49     1.02      1.49                        5.49       5      11.07
Price ContIngency                       1.9~~~~~~~        ~~~~~    ~~~~3 1.09  4.2'~    5.52  4.79  6.9  6.49  9.46                   174      213.05   4.5
Subtotal                         18.69     3.30    27.26    15.40    32.78    42.58    26.13    38.18    27.8    40.86                           132.80   140.11   272.91
UnIversity Publishing I Printtng
Ct'ivi Wors                        16.06     2.83      5.87     1.04                                                                                21.93      3.87    25.80
Equlpet                                                6.75    19.29      3.97    21.49      1.02     7.16      1.02     7.16                       12.73    55.10    67.85
Total base Cost                  16.06     2.83    12.61    20.32       3.97    21.49     1.02      7.16     1.02      7.16                       54.68    58.97    93.65
PhysIcal Contingency e 53           0.80     0.14      0.63     1.02      0.20     1.07     0.05      0.36     0.05      0.36                        1.73      2.95     4.68
Pr1c Contingoncy                                       1.01     1.63      0.62     3.36     0.24      1.68     0.32      2.26                        2.20      8I.95    11.15
Subtotal                        16.87      2.98    14.25    22.97      4.79    25.92      1.31      9.20     1.39      ' .0                       38.61    70.87       .4
SraIning
Overeaas Fellowship                                             1.08               0.76               0.61               0.17                                  2.62     2.62
Doatic Training                                        0.46              0.46               0.46               0.46               0.46               2.29               2.29
SeiLis   eycs-Frin0.84                                                           0.91               0.49               0.15                                 2.37      2.37
Speci ait Servic   -  al                              0.15               0.15               0.15               0.15               0.15               0.74               0.74
Total Base Cost                                     0.61      1.92      0.61     1.67     0.61      1.10     0.61      0.29     0.61               3.03      4.99     8.02
Ph atcal Contingenc7 03y                               0.03     0.10      0.03     0.08      0.03     0.06      0.03     0.01     0.03               0.15      0.25     0.40
Price Contingency                                      0.05     0,15      0.09     0.26      0.14     0.26     0.19      0.09     0.25               0.73      0.77     1.50
Subtotal                                            0.69      2.17     0.73      2.02     0.78      1.42     0.83      0.40     0.88               3.91      6.01     9.92
Total Project Cost
CIvil Wor;ks                       42.66     7.53    25.71      4.54      1.59     0.28                                                             69.96    12.35    82.31
EquIpment                                             22.00    4100    31.87    68.85    21.73    39.92    21.73    39.92                           97.34   189.70   287.04
floka & Educational Hatertisa                          0.09     0.0704    0.09,    0.7"4                                                               .9        4      16
Trsinint Seo ces                                       0 46     1 08      0.46     0.76     0.46       0.61    0.J6      0.17     0.46               2 29      2 628    1  1
0t:tS    I 0.84   0.15      0.91     0.15      0.49     0.1S      0.13     0.13               0.74      2.37     3.11
las. Cost                        42.66     7.33    48.4!    48.19    34.16    71.55    22.34    41.03    22.34    40.--         0.61             170.52   208.51   379.06
Physical ContingencLes            2.13     0.38     2.42      2.41      1.71     3.58     1.12      2.05     1.12      2.01     0.03               8.33    10.43    18.95
Prie. Contingencles                                  3.88     3.87     5.34    11.19      5.25      9.63     7.11    12.80      0.25              21.83    37.50    59.33
Total Project Cost              44.79        90    54.72    54.47    41.21    86.32    28.70    52.72    30.57    55.03         0.88             200.88   2 _6.43   437.31           D
_- - - - - - - _! _?                                                                                                           ! _0              :! .                ______ _ _       
--- -- -- -- --- --  :  - -- --- -- -  -- -- ----- -- ---  ----- ------- -  -- ------- --  - --- : -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- ----- -- -- -- --



- 44 -
U10Xt DEWILOftIEllT PS CT
Prolect MunitorisE Indicators
Sta rtinn            Let               This           Ed-of -project
*tatu  (9[:rv    1  r                   v -(1         poect status (199)
*ndicator                                   Uwsuals   ns           Mo ra                      g            rgbF
CShR!I/PEP/SgdC
1   &-rTapP1HdC ror teacher tratning                0                                                       280
Iusic casettee                                    0                                                        34
LUbrary booka                                     0                                                    25.000
Manuscript preparation
No. of  gs                                      0                                                        60
Characters typeset per year (mnl)               0                                                        24
Book distribution
No. of oewsletters                        100,000                                                   150,000
Volum of sa"s                                  12                                                        12
HEP_ Prtntin  P ctoVo
MPot crvsW  VOrwo completed                                                                               too
Output
Na. of titles                                   0                                                       850
No. of copies (sin)                             0                                                        25
Typesetting (sln characters)                    0                                                       120
Paper ( 000 ream)                               0                                                       300
FPa Printing F ctorvy
iLhtIN WanStsr
No. of titles                                 395                                                       585
Peper _trlces (pages)                     250,000                                                  300,000
rni  (8-p8g  units)                             0                                                    70,000
Books
No. of titles                                 4!5                                                     1,038
No. of copies (sin)                            30                                                      113
Teacbsn5 aids
Types
No. of item
Beijang Printing Institute
nraroizeant                                   1,000                                                     2.000
Short-term courses
No. of courses                                 12                                                        18
No. of participants                           280                                                      610
Provincial Prn       actories 
'otel output (ntn roam)
Of which:  color                                0                                                       5.4
2 of new equlpoent operattonal                    0                                                       100
puo. otirpr asssp bahed/mimeographed              594                                               4,434/3 774
Typesettir  (sn characters)                     353                                                     1 517
Paper (00 reane)                                310                                                     1.284
S of new equipmnt operattonal                     0                                                       100
training and Technical Assistance /
study tours
No. of trips                                                                                              5
Total weeks                                                                                              84          16
FellowahLps
Trips coWleted                                             -                                             27          48
Average duratin (months)                        -          -                                            4.5         4.0
Short courses
No. oftered                                     -           I                                             6           9
No. trained                                     -         80                                            180         225
Long-term training (domestic)
No. trained                                     -        140                                          1,066       1.322
Total staff-montha                              -        245                                          3 414       5,288
Inservice training (domestic)
No. trained                                     -          -                                          5,873         493
Total staff-months                              -          -                                              ?       2,160
Foreign expert vistra
No. of trieps
Total weeks                                     -          -                                             36          18
Other (secondary vocational)                            -                                                   -       2,800
costs (tea)
verajge manufacturing cost (per sheet)
Black and white                               6.5       12.0                                           13.5        21.0
2-color                                       9.8          -                                           16.5           -
4-color                                       1.8          -                                           32.0           -
R a of manudtWhture0g cost (per she1t)
Bltck  tnd wufte                         6.0-7.0    7.5-9.0                                      13.0-1S.0  15.0-150.0
2-color                                  9.0-10.0          -                                     16.0-18.0            -
4-color                                 16.0-18.5          -                                     30.0-34.0            -
Prcsfeni id
Airage iajiing price (per sheet)
Black and white                               6.5       15.0                                           20.0        30.0
2-color                                      12.0          -                                           25.0           -
4-color                                      24.0          -                                          48.0
Range of eelling price (per sbee-)
Black and vhite                               8.5  14.0-16.0                                      18.0-21.0   28.0-32.0
2-color                                 12.0-14.0          -                                     23.0-27.0            -
4-color                                 22.0-25.0                                                 45.0-50.0
L To be broken down by printing factory.
E To be broken down by university press.
c Detailed list of program And participants to be provided.
uina 1988  thfe l             orie oer printed sheea t forblack and hpitt  hassgone from 8 fen to 14 fen. The figure for
co bras i6s  irna  e  t   u3   a  as a reul orpaper price Inereees.



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Education: Project-Related Local Training
1989          1990           1991          Total
Supervisors                       36             -              -             36
Technicians                        -            36              -             36
Workers
Operators                      248           333            305            886
Maintenance workers              -            72             36            108
Subtotal                    248           405            341            994
Total                       284           441            341          1,066



-  46  -                                             ANNEX 5
Table 2
CHINA
TEXTIOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Education: ProJect-Related Foreign Training
I.  Overseas Fellowships
Year:       1989              1990             1991              1992          Total           Total
Duration (months):  3    6    12    3            6    12    3    6    12    _       6    12    trained   cost ($000)
Editing                      2    2            2    2      1    2    2       1    2    2               18           144.0
Publishing                                     I                1                                       2            13.0
Art work                     I                 I                 1                                      3            19.5
Printing management                            I                1                                       2            13.0
Lbrary management            I                                   1                                      2            13.0
Subtotal               4    2       -    5    2      1    6    2       1    2    2      -        27           202.5
II. Study Tours (I month each)
1989             1990              1991             1992          Total       Coat (W000)
Textbook review                                       5                                                 5            25.0
Publication 6 marketing             3                                                    3              6            30.0
Other subjects                      5                                  5                               10            50.0
Subtotal                      8                 5                 5                3             21            105.0
III.  Training Specialists (2 weeks each)
Total
1989             1990              1991                          trainera    Cost (S'OOO)
Authorship & editing                2                                  2                                4             44
Design                              2                                                                   2             22
Production                                           2                                                  2             22
Finance                                              2                                                  2             22
Management                                            2                                                 2             22
Subtotal                      4                 6                2                               12             132
IV. Consultant Services
Year:       1989              1990             1991              1992          Total
Duration (weeks):  2             4    2           4              T2              - T        number      Cost (W000)
Joint compliation                        2                 2                 2                          6            87.0
Other subjects               2                 2                2                 2                     8            68.0
Ad-hoc                                    1                1                 1                1         4            58.0
Subtotal                2           3    2           3    2            3    2            1       18           213.0
V. Summary
1989             1990              1991             1992          Total        Cost ($'000)
Overseas fellowship                 6                8                 9                 4             27           202.5
Study tours                         8                5                 5                 3             21           105.0
Lecturers                           4                6                 2                -              12           132.0
Consultants                         5                5                 5                 3             18           213.0
Total                        23                24               21                10             78
Cost (WOOD)               186.5               210            176.5              79.5                           625.5/a
/a  Costs include management charges but exclude contingencies.



CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Higher Education: Project-Related Local Training
Level
of              Publishing                   Printing            Total na.
staff      Job classification  No.  Job classification   No.    trained                   Type of training
Senior     Directors            105  Directors              120       225    Short courses taught by foreign experts
Editors-in-chief          Engineers                                 (1 month)
Short courses taught by local experts (1-3
months)
2-year course by BPI
Middle     Editors              420  Technicians          1,035    1,455    Short-term training courses:
Designers                                                           BPI: printing technology
Wuhan: distribution                            -
HEPH: production management
Fine Arts Institute in Zhejiang: book design
Southwest Normal University: book design
Qinghua University: editing
Correspondence studies
Junior     Distribution staff  360  Workers               2,800    3,160    Spare-time courses while cn the job
Accounting staff                                                  Vocational school
Clerical workers
Total          885                        3,955    4,840
F'0Q



- 48 -
Table 4
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Higher Education: Project-Related Foreign Training
I. Overseas Fellowships
Year:    1989      1990      1991     Total           Total
Duration (weeks):   2    4   2    4   2    4   trained    cost (S 000)
Editing                        5   8    3   4   2             22          144.0
Publishing                     4        3        2             9           54.0
Distribution                   4        2        2             8          48.0
Management                     4        3        2             9          54.0
Subtotal                17   8   11   4   8    -        48          300.0
II.  Study Tours (1 month each)
1989     1990      1991     Total      Cost (S000)
Subtotal                  10         5         5        20          100.0
III. Training Specialists (2 weeks each)
Total
1989     1990      1991    Trainers   Cost (S000)
Press directorship                        2                    2           20.0
Advanced editing                          2                    2          20.0
Production                       2                             2           20.0
Finance                                   2                    2          20.0
Editing                          2                  2          4           40.0
Design                           2                             2          20.0
Marketing                        2                             2           20.0
Distribution                              2                    2          20.0
Subtotal                   8         8         2        18          180.0
IV. Cons-Altant Services (1 month each)
1989     1990      1991     Total      Cost (S000)
Various subjects as needed       3         3        2          8          116.0
V. Summary
1989     1'90      1991     Total      Cost (S000)
Overseas fellowships            25       15         8         48         300.0
Study tours                     10        5         5         20          100.0
Lecturers                        8        8         2         18          180.0
Consultants                      3        3         2          8          116.0
Total                     46        31        17        94
Cost ('000)            331.5    242.5    122.0                      696.0/a
/a Costs include management charges but exclude contingencies.



- 49 -
ANNEX 6
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for TA Management Agency
Some categories of technical assistance in the project would be
managed by an overseas agency (see para. 3.19 of main text).  The agency would
provide the following management services:
(a)  Jointly plan training and technical assistance activities with SEdC
twice a year;
(b) Prepare proposal for study tours, fellowships, foreign experts and
training courses for approval by SEdC;
(c) Arrange itineraries, hotels, transportation, appointments for study
tours and provide guides and/or interpreters on request and if
budget is available;
(d) Arrange placements for fellowships and plan fellowship programs;
identify fellowship locations and companies to suit candidates in
countries of SEdC's choosing;
(e) Identify foreign experts to satisfy needs jointly identified with
SEdC, arrange for payment, itineraries, in-country transportation,
accommodation and subsistence arrangements in China via SEdC plus
international transportation, visas, etc. Provide terms of
reference and full briefing to both SEdC and foreign experts.
Debrief on completion and provide reports as required;
(f) Organize training courses, supervise course preparation and the
writing of training materials and the design and preparation of
training materials for practical work. Provide a full set of
materials for translation to a nominated official 6 weeks before a
course starts. Identify and brief lecturers. Arrange travel, visa,
insurance and other arrangements plus accommodation and subsistence
in China via SEdC. Prepare and submit course report and evaluation;
(g)  Provide regular accounting and auditing of priject funds handled by
the management agency;
(h) Provide regular evaluation and progress reports to SEdC;
(i) Any other tasks as mutually agreed during the course of the project.



CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1988             1989              1990              1991       f      1992              1993              1994              1995
Quarter:     I _ I  III  IV   I  it  III  =V       1II I   IV   I  II  111  IV   I  II   III  IV   I  II  111  IV                          I  11  II   IV
Loan Processnag
Nego:iations                       X
Board presentation                         X
Signing                                         x
Effectiveness                                   X
Completion                                                                                                                            x
Closing                                                                                                                        i
Civil Works                                          _                                                                           I
Equipment 
Prequalification                                        1 _ _                               I                I _1|
8idding/Award    .
Delivery
Books b Materials                                                                   I
Training
Overseas
Dooestic
Specialists
Foreign                                        ZF___                                                                                                              I
Domestic. 



- 51 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Recommendations from Sector Work
Pricing Formulas and Financing
1.        China's system for managing the financial aspects of textbook
production and sale has worked well in the past because of the stability of
prices and the availability of government subsidies. Under the present
changing circumstances, existing pricing formulas will increasingly fail to
achieve their objective of assuring cost recovery for textbook publishers.
Therefore, the mission recommends that:
(a) Pricing formulas should be reviewed now, and regularly in the future
to assure their continuing suitability for achieving the
Government's objectives; and
(b) As new production standards are introduced, for example monochrome
offset printing (which requires specially treated, more expensive,
paper) the range of pricing formulas will need to be expanded.
Specifically, to ensure that the current degree of cost recovery is maintained
under the proposed upgrading, the mission recommends that the exiting textbook
pricing and cost formulas be modified as follows:
(a) The pricing formula for primary and secondary texts should be
modified to eliminate the loss which publishers now incur in
publishing monochrome primary and secondary texts (para. 4.8).1/ If
this were to take the form of an increased sales price equal to
average publishing costs, additional measures should be adopted to
permit cost recovery for individual textbook publishers whose costs
are high for historical reasons rather than as a result of
inefficient management (para. 4.14); and
(b) The recently adopted policy of subsidizing higher education texts
should be seen as a temporary measure; the Government should
consider changing the pricing formula for higher education textbooks
to make it more consistent with that for primary and secondary
textbooks (para. 4.14).
Issues concerning the financing of textbook distribution should be addressed:
(a) The current formula for setting the fee received by Xinhua Shudian
for textbook distribution, which is based on historical
1/   Paragraph references are to the original report, China: Textbook
Development (Report No. 6735-CHA).



- 52 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
relationships, should be reevaluated to ensure that the fee paid for
distribution of upgraded textbooks adequately meets the actual
distribution costs, including interest payments, without generating
excess profits for textbook distributors (para. 4.18).
While mission findings suggest that current sources of support to the poorest
households are adequate to assure full textbook availability at present,
additional sources may be necessary in the future, (para. 4.10). To meet that
need:
(a) The adequacy of support to poor households for textbook purchases
should be kept under review as upgrading progresses. If additional
forms of support are necessary, targeted subsidies should be
considered as well as general subsidies.
2.        The issue of book life (para. 3.4) has an impact on both pricing and
financing of textbooks. The issue is of considerable consequence for lower
levels of schooling because the projected production costs of upgraded books
are quite high, about 125% higher for books with color, about 110% for books
with hgqvier paper and better covers, but no color (Table 4.3, para.
4.21).1 If texts were used for three years, for example, the total annual
cost of improved textbooks would be less than for the present low-quality
books and improved textbooks would be less than for the present low-quality
books and demands on the printing and distribution systems would be reduced
because only one-third of all textbooks would have to be printed and
distributed each year. On the other hand, shifting to multiple-year use would
require some additional administrative tasks for schools and students and
parents would have to forego book ownership.
3.        A related issue is whether the Chinese should continue to design
books to be used for only one semester, r ther than for a full year. If texts
continue to be sold to students, then twice yearly distribution is preferable
in order to spread the printing task throughout the year and not overburden
the distribution system. Changing to annual distribution would mean books
would be printed throughout the year, and storage facilities at printing
houses would have to be significantly increased. Also, because books would
weigh at least twice as much (because they have content for a year instead of
one semester), Xinhua Shudian would have to greatly increase both storage
facilities and transportation capacity. On the other hand, if texts were used
for several years, a shift to books covering material for an entire year could
be made without strain on the system, and at some savings, since several
expenditures, including the cost of covers, would be reduced. In light of the
strong preference for student textbook ownership expressed by Chinese
authorities, the mission recommends that:
2/   It should be noted that the production quality of the upgraded textbooks
will still be far short of the hard-bound, sturdy books used in most of
the school systems that reuse books.



- 53 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
(a) the present system of selling textbooks to students should be
retained, but experiments should be undertaken with multiyear use of
some improved primary textbooks. If multiyear use is adopted for
some texts, serious consideration should be given to producing texts
covering the material for one year, instead of one semester; and
(b) Second-hand book markets at universities should be strengthened, so
that as book quality improves, texts no longer needed by students
can be used by others, thus conserving resources (para. 3.4).
The Pace of Upgrading
4.        As noted above (para. 5) the pace of implementation of textbook
upgrading is likely to be constrained not by financial requirements but by the
availability of suitable quality paper, typesetting and printing facilities
and trained personnel. Therefore, the program will have to be phased. The
mission recommends that:
(a) For primary and secondary texts, upgrading should begin with lower
primary texts in Chinese, science and mathematics, which will be
produced using color, and only later expand to include the remainder
of texts for primary, and then secondary grades. The use of offset
printing for monochr3me books should be delayed until the first
phase of the upgrading is complete; and
(b) For higher education, publishing houses and their associated
printing houses should receive assistance in systematic fashion so
that all the requirements for upgrading are put in place together
and expensive machinery is used efficiently and productively.
5.        Dramatic increases are projected in numbers of textbooks for higher
education in the coming years (para. 3.12, Table 3.1).  Title growth puts
pressures on authorship, editorial resources, production resources, raw
materials, and on publishing management and financial accountability.  it is
the impression of the mission that the consequences of the proposed title
increases have not been examined in sufficient detail by the Chinese
authorities. Therefore, specifically in regard to higher education, the
mission recommends that:
(a) Targeted increases in numbers of titles for higher education be
reviewed to assure that they are realistic; a multi-year planning
horizon be used in developing detailed estimates of requirements for
raw materials and trained personnel; and measures be taken to assure
that all the prerequisites needed to meet the targets, including
supplies of paper, printing and binding capacity, and trained
personnel are being strengthened or made available in an appropriate
time frame.
Educational Effectiveness
6.        the Chinese authorities have adopted several strategies to increase
the educational effectiveness of textbooks. these include assisting authors



- 54 -
ANIlEX 8
Page 4 of 4
to im!%rove their knowledge of both substance and pedagogy; extensively field
testing new texts; and increasing the variety of textbooks available, thereby
providing education authorities with the means of addressing differences among
regions and types of students. To strengthen and expand these initiatives,
the mission recommends that:
(a) Programs for assembling resource materials for textbook authors and
increasing their availability, especially reference books and
reports of research, should be strengthened (para. 3.8, 3.16);
(b) Methods for field testing textbooks should be improved and the
schools selected as field test sites should represent the full range
of kinds and quality of Chinese schools (para. 3.7); and
(c)  New programs to expand the number of approved texts for indivi'ual
courses, at both lower and higher levels of schooling, should be
pursued vigorously and procedures for approving alternative texts
should be streamlined to allow for rapid implementation (paras.
3.12, 3.14).
Textbook Distribution
7.        Changed standards of textbook quality and, for higher education,
significant increases in the number of textbooks published, will strain the
present resources and systems of Xinhua Shudian, the book wholesaling
agency. The mission recommends that:
(a) Subsidies for textbook distribution to remote areas should be
reestablished; and
(b) Diversification of channels for distribution of higher education
texts be encouraged.
Human Resources
8.        The textbook upgrading program will require large numbers of people
with upgraded skills in authorship, editing, book design, field testing,
typesetting, printing, warehousing, financial management, production control,
marketing and inventory control. The mission recommends that:
(a) National institutions that provide training in publishing and
printing should be established or strengthened, to train both
practitioners and trainers for on-the-job and institution-based
training; and
(b) Selected key personnel should undertake training programs or be
seconded to publishing houses overseas, to quickly bring knowledge
of more advanced technologies and practices to China.



- 55- -
ANNEX 9
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
to.  ducational Publishing in the People's Republic of China by the Publishers
Association, Book Development Council, November 1986
2.  lducAtional Publishing in the People's Republic of China:  A Report on the
Findings of the World Bank Educational Sector Work Mission, 25 May-6 June
1986
3. A Project Monitoring Outline by Charles Currin, December 1987
4. Curriculum Development for Basic Education in China by Charles Currin,
December 1987 (revised March 1988)
S.  Curriculum Development and Textbook Publishing in China:  Report to AEPED,
the Vorld Bank by Jianliang Wang, January 1987
4. Ptoject Preparation Questionnaires completed February 1988
7. Detailed Equipment List and Estimated Unit Costs by Province and
University Press Working Paper, March 1988



- 56 -
chart 1
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of State Education Commission
Departments and Bureaus
1.   General Office
2.   Office of Policy Study
3.   Bureau of Personnel
4.   Bureau of Planning and Financing
5.   Bureau of Foreign Affairs
6.   Bureau of Capital Construction
7.   Bureau of Instructional and Technical Provision
8.   Bureau of Audio-Visual Education
9.   Bureau of Administrative Management
10.  Bureau of Veteran Cadres
11.  First Department of Higher Education
12.  Second Department of Higher Education
13.  Third Department of Higher Education
14.  Department of Postgraduate Education
15.  Department of Political Education
16.  Department of Science and Technology
17.  Department of University Student Affairs
18.  Department of Teacher Education
19.  Department of Secondary Education
20.  Department of Primary Education
21.  Department of Minority Education
22.  Department of Vocational and Technical Education
23.  Department of Adult Education
24.  Department of Physical and Health Education
25.  Department of Inspection
26.  Office for Higher Education Self-Study Examinations
27.  Auditing Office
28.  Office for Macro Educational Planning
29.  Office of Teacher Management
30.  Office of Foreign Investment and Loan
31.  Office of Teaching Material, Library and Information Management
32.  Office of The National Review Committee for Primary and Secondary School
Textbooks
33.  Office of Information Research



- 57 -
Chart 1
Page 2 of 2
Centers
1.   Center for Education Development and Policy Research
2.   Center for Educational Information Management
3.   Center for Examination Management
4.   Research Center for Development in Social Sciences
5.   Center for Science and Technology Management
6.   Research Center for Education on Marxist Theories
7.   Research Center for Instructional Materials for Ideological and Political
Education for Primary and Secondary Schools
Enterprises and Institutes
1.   Central Institute of Educational Science
2.   China Education News
Editorial Department of China Education News
Editorial Department of People's Education
Editorial Department of China Higher Education
3.   People's Education Press
4.   Higher Education Publishing House
5.   National Audio-Visual Education Center
6.   China Educational Instruments and Equipment Corporation
7.   Research Institute of Teaching Equipment
8.   China Educational Service Center (Shenzhen)
9.   Central Institute of Educational Administration
10. Central Radio and T.V. University
11. China T.V. Normal College
1.   Office of the Academic Degree Committee of the State Council
2.   Secretariat of the National Commission of the P.R.C. for UNESCO
3.   Chinese Education Association for International Exchange
4.   Chinese Society of Education
5.   Chinese Society of Higher Education
6.   China's Scholars Abroad (Journal)



- 58 -
CHART 2
CHINA
TEKTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OrganIzatIonal Structure
PeoplWs Educatlon Press (PEP) and Currculum
& Teaching Materials Research Institute (CTMRI)
Administrative Division
Personnel Division
Retired Veteron Cadre Office
Generol Service Department
-Office of Capital Construction
Planning and Fnance Division
Auditorial Office
Publishing Section
Council of PEP                          Publishing Divisn     Designing Section
(Director                                                   L  Proof-reading Section
Director              Editor-In-chief
Editor-in-chief       Deputy Directors
of PEP                Assistant Editors-in-chief               Promotlon & Distribution Division
Director of CTMRI
Secretary Generol)
Ubrary
-General Edtaal DMsion
Dept. of Palmos
Dept. I: Chinese for Prlmary and Lower Secondrar School
Dept. II: Chnese for Upper Secodary School
Dept. of Foeign Languages
Dept. of Mathemaics
Dept. of Physcs
Dept ot Chemistry
Dept. of Bilogy & Elementary Science
Dept of History
Dept. ot Geography
Centre of Population Education
Dept of Painting
I                                  .                     Dept of Educaton
Dept of Pre-school Educaton
Council of CTMRI                          Dept. of Physical Education
Director          (Director                                 Op. of Readig Matedols ond Reftrence Ewks
of CTMRI          Deputy Directors                         aDept ofeaIn                                             AL
Chairman & Vice-chairmen                  Dept of AudboMsualTechinguMasals
Of Academic Committee)
Office of CTMRI
Dept. of Curriculum Research
-Editorial Board of "Curriculum. Teaching
Materiols & Method"
Academic Committee
Prnting House of
People's EducaHon Press
World Bank-31154:1



- 59 -
CHINA                                                              CHART 3
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure of Higher Educatlon Publishig House(HEPH)
NO',onal Center of Lecture
Notes Exchange-
A:odemic                       ReserDtch DZent       _              .rrtv|
Commrtree                        Council                          Foetign Texroook Center
O tffce ot Teachingt Materi Research
Dives ot Penodicals &Joumols          |d
_                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~VkOo Medio
Etoa l         oVocstronOI & Tech Ed      -      J
Dlvi. Of GeograPhY
offir-lcset ofivI . of Biology
EcUtoNn-chie                                                                      Ecdit
DireCo",~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ A                             v    friA. cnRutO 
_DM   _I               __hysIC
DM of Moth
& i:-lnsh e!           f bss                                                             ConstCoution
_              f                                       4         Divl o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uttornuer SenceDeotet
'!:ou,nsenerol                           i    e-                                                          f-               W     Baio-31184:2
Tkrgln                                                          2T=l Affolrs_j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ft
Pt3rsonnel~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~co                                    DwMbi ot Moth                             l
Ceice tor  l                                  | | CorzinVon |~~~~~~~~~~~~~$ecio o
Thrjin  l                                   }   | AsSrn~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~icivsoll  Dt$Muflo
fW4hirs  |                                    |                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rac  Sechion of II
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M ofwnehn a
i    |   | Ersnch           |        r ~~~~~Secnon of 
l       l   l                  |   i  M  ST  - toV  on   o |          
world Eenk-3tS54.2



- 60 -
CHART 4
CHINA
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management - Organizational Chart
STEERING COMMITTEE
Bureau of      Office of       Office of
FILO     Planning        Primary &       Higher
& Finance      Secondary       Education
HigherI
Education                                                              PE./CTMR
Publishing
House
Higher
Education                        Foreign                     Printing              Exper.
Printing    |vsnetFactory                                                         Schools
Factory                          La
Divisions
Project
FILO                           Equipment                              Provincial
University                       DMsion                                Department
Division    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~,f Education
Finance
Division
Technical
University                        Psitneublshing
Press                           Division                                Bureau
Admin.
Office
University                                                               Pnn
Prnting                                                                 Factory
Factory
caMw41961



ISRD 209181
s6e    70           80              00                        (1            120            1             140
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U S. 5                                   us.s R. 
U. S. S. R.                                                                        U    s R.
I -.HEIL ONGS/ANG--
g   <  < /_} v  >                      u~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~LAANSAAARR  ,          ui   
Harbin
MONGOLIA                           Changohun                     '
Urumqi                                         o             AGigiso
i2zE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Trh  *0 SSe-sa
BEIJING SHI    K    DP.R. OF
HEBEI L'~              KO&  v REA  '>tHbHJAPA4
X CHINA                        ,                            egJIANINXPA .Y4e
PROJECT l t KunZnO 2<f > E fA/@ Nhhot                      vl,~
*SEOUL
~qvhuno  tRZHE.IAN
anzho~~~~~~~~~uzo
Provincia Printing Factory  |HA  HA SANHUANGXI %F. K                        , f4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and  hengivru   Jiang                Wuhatins  7(i.
e           FhacqftorimPa o A dTowns l | ET 5)  tt                 PHLIPPINES
L~~~~~~~ bitnato     Bowdals                                              MIE  C      8 tO  O   50   40  .6      ....................................t  00  18ff.....  
IIIY 1FIuh



