Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL UsE ONLY
Report No. 13743
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2680-BR)
DECEMBER 1, 1994
Environment and Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BRAZIL
NORTEOEAST IRRIGATION ENGINEERING AND
TECINICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2680-BR)
ABBREVIATIONS
CODEVASF   Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
DNOCS          Departamento Nacional de Obras contra as Secas
DNOS           Departamento Nacional de Obras e Saneamento
EMBRAPA        Empresa Brasilera de Pesquisa Agricola
ETENE          Escrit6rio T6cnico de Estudos Econ6micos do Nordeste
FAO/CP         FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FIPE           Fundacao Instituto de Pesquisas Economicas
GOB            Government of Brazil
IRD            Instuto Interamericano do Ciencias Agricolas
NIETAP         Northeast Irrigation and Technical Assistance Project
PR             President's Report
PROINE         Programa de Irrigac,o do Nordeste
PRONI          Programa Nacional de Irriga,co
SAG-RN         Secretaria de Agricultura - Rio Grande do Norte
SENIR          Secretaria Nacional de Irrigac,o
SIR            Secretaria de Irrigaqao
SUDENE         Superintendenza para o Desenvolvimiento do Nordeste
UNICAM         Universidad Nacional do Campinas
USBR           United States Bureau of Reclamation



FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 1, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Brazil
Northeast Irrigation Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2680-BR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Brazil-Northeast Irrigation Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2680-BR), prepared by the Latin American and the Caribbean
Regional Office. Part ll was prepared by the Borrower.
The project funded the studies, technical assistance, and pilot irrigation schemes needed to
identify irrigation projects for public investment in the Northeast, and to strengthen federal and regional
irrigation agencies. Project implementation suffered from changing priorities at the federal level, delays
in counterpart funding, the dissolution of one implementing agency, and difficulties with procurement and
selection of consultants and contractors.
After three extensions of the closing date from 1990 to 1993, all studies were completed,
including some reoriented towards private investment potential.  However, they were poorly
disseminated, and the PCR questions the economic validity of the proposed projects. The pilot schemes
were not fully operational by loan closing, and the follow up investment project did not materialize. The
technical assistance and training activities were found successful by the borrower, but subsequent
institutional changes and funding problems raise questions about their long term viability. The project
contributed to a 1988-90 review of the irrigation subsector in Brazil, which concluded that public
irrigation would not be cost effective to increase the income of small farmers in the Northeast. The
project outcome is rated as marginally unsatisfactory, institutional development as modest and
sustainability as unlikely.
The PCR is satisfactory. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2680-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE . ............................................ I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................... iu
Part I:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM TIE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .....   1
Project Identity .........................1............... 
Background  ..........................   1
Project Objectives and Description  ...........................   2
Project Design and Organization ...........................    3
Project hnplementation ........             ..................   4
Project Results  ..........................   5
Project Sustainability and Folow-up  ..........................   7
Bank Performance ..........................                                    8
Borrower Performance ..........                .................   9
Project Relationship ...........................   9
Consulting Services  ..........................   9
Project Documentation and Data ..........................                      9
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE ....................                                    10
Evaluation of the Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned ....        ....... 10
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned ... .... 10
Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower .....         ............. 11
PART m  - STATISTICAL INFORMATION ......                  ............... 12
Table 1. Related Bank Loans .............................. 12
Table 2.  Project Timetable ................................ 12
Table 3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursement ...        ..... 12
Table 4.  Project Inplementation ............................. 13
Table 5.  Project Costs and Financing ......................... 20
Table 6.  Project Results  ................................. 21
Table 7.  Status of Legal Covenants .......................... 21
Table 8.  Use of Bank Resources ............................ 22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2680-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report of the Northeast Irrigation Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project, for which Loan No. 2680-BR in the amount of US$48 million
was approved by the Board on April 22, 1986 and signed on June 30, 1986. The loan
because effective on October 30, 1986 and was closed on June 30, 1993, three years behind
schedule. The Loan Agreement was amended in December 1989 and the closing date was
extended three times, by one year each time. The last disbursement was made on December
1, 1993. Upon loan completion on December 17, 1993, the undisbursed balance of US$4.7
million was cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Part I of the Project Completion Report
were prepared by an FAO/CP mission which visited Brazil from January 30 to February
12, 1994. They are based on the President's Report (Report No. P-4272-BR of April 1,
1986), the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, the Relatorio Final, Acordo de Emprestimo
2680/BR prepared by the Secretaria de Irriga,co, various documents from the project file,
a review of the sector studies and project preparation studies financed by the project,
discussions with technical staff and management from the Secretaria de Irriga,cdo, the
Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sdo Francisco and the Departamento Nacional
de Obras Contra as Secas. A visit was made to the two pilot irrigation projects, Jaguaribe-
Apodi and Baixo Acu, constructed and equipped with project support.






ii
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2680-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The long term objective of the Northeast Irrigation Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project (NIETAP) was to raise rural incomes and increase farm output by making
the Northeast less vulnerable to periodic droughts and the vagaries of rainfall.  The
immediate objectives were to create an adequate stock of irrigation projects, the construction
of which could be launched as soon as the necessary financing were secured, and to provide
technical assistance and training to staff of the Executive Secretariat of the Programa
Nacional de Irriga!Vdo (PRONI), the Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sdo
Francisco (CODEVASF), the Departamento National de Obras contra as Secas (DNOCS)
and the Departamento Nacional de Obras de Saneamento (DNOS). Included in the project
was the preparation of sector studies related to irrigation in the Northeast, and of studies of
the potential for private irrigation of Northeast valleys and the need of supporting
infrastructure. Also included was the construction and equipping of two pilot level schemes
of 1,000 ha each, in Piranhas-Acu and Jaguaribe-Apodi plateaux.
Implementation Experience
NIETAP was implemented between November 1986 and June 1993 by the
Executive Secretariat of PRONI, which was in charge of project coordination and
supervision, CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS. Implementation was slower than expected
and run considerably behind the ambitious schedule envisaged in the President's Report,
requiring three extensions of one year each. The main reasons were the slow and erratic
release of counterpart funding, the administrative changes in the Executive Secretariat of
PRONI, the elimination of DNOS by the Federal Government, and the difficulties
experienced by the implementing agencies, especially by DNOCS, to adjust to Bank rules for
the selection of consulting firms, the allocation of construction contracts and the procurement
of irrigation equipment. Notwithstanding the delays, on the whole project components were
implemented to a satisfactory degree within the expanded disbursement period, and 90% of
the loan was disbursed. The cancellation of US$ 4.7 million at project completion resulted
from lower than expected costs of the studies rather than from implementation failure. The
project was intensively and competently supervised by the Bank, and the Bank-Borrower
relationship was flexible and constructive.



iii
Project Results
Ten sector studies dealing with six subjects were prepared by research institutes and
consulting firms between 1986 and 1989. Quality was good and results interesting, but the
impact on the design of new irrigation schemes by the consulting firms working on project
preparation seems to have been limited, as the studies' results came too late and were not
sufficiently disseminated.
The potential for private irrigation development in 65 Northeast valleys was
studied. It was concluded that 54 of these had private irrigation potential, it being possible
to bring under irrigation an area close to one million ha. The investment required was
estimated at more than US$ 8.0 billion.
Project preparation studies were undertaken by consortia of Brazilian and foreign
consulting firms.  Collaboration was fruitful; the participation of local firms reduced
preparation costs and offered good local footing to foreign firms who, on their part,
transferred substantial engineering and project preparation know-how to their local partners.
The President's Report (PR) target for feasibility studies was exceeded whereas that for
engineering designs was not met. On the whole, the engineering side of investment project
preparation was well covered in the studies. There were weaknesses, however, in the socio-
economic aspect, for the type of public irrigation projects proposed were expensive to build
and equip, and hence of questionable economic viability. They would be difficult to operate
on a sustainable basis by the users organizations (mainly if they are composed of small
farmers, and would not be the best means to fight rural poverty or to ensure food security
in the Northeast).
The construction and equipping of the Jaguaribe-Apodi and Baixo Acu pilot projects
experienced many delays and was not fully completed. In Baixo-Acu operation started in 600
ha in early 1994 while no part of the Jaguaribe-Apodi scheme is yet operational.
Technical assistance and staff training were satisfactorily performed by FAO, IICA
and USBR, significantly contributing to strengthen the implementing agencies.  The
assistance of USBR was particularly appreciated by the these agencies. FAO's support to
create a remote sensing and geographic information unit in CODEVASF was also highly
valued.  NIETAP helped much to organize a competent professional group to plan,
coordinate and monitor irrigation development at the federal level, something that did not
exist in Brazil.
Sustainability and Follow-up
Unfortunately, the institutional changes in the Executive Secretariat of PRONI and
the decreased priority of public investment in irrigation have resulted in the virtual
dismantling of the high-level federal irrigation planning and coordination team created with
project assistance. The fact that this team was formed with technical staff seconded from
various institutions made it vulnerable and liable to disappear.



iv
The remote sensing and geographic information unit which NIETAP contributed
to create in CODEVSAF will continue to operate, but excellence will be lost if funds are not
budgeted to allow software and hardware update and large scale entering of data. The
project monitoring system organized in the Secretaria de Irrigacao continues to function but
is likely to die off if the Secretaria as a whole is not revitalized.
Uncertain investment follow-up to the feasibility and engineering design studies is
a crucial aspects of NIETAP. On the Bank's side, the delay in starting the Northeast
Irrigation I project and the postponement of the appraisal of the Irrigation Subsector II
project, have left NIETAP without investment follow-up so far. On the Government's side,
few federal funds are available to construct new public schemes and there seems to be limited
will to borrow for this purpose.
Findings and Lessons Learned
With the benefit of hindsight, it can now be concluded that NIETAP had a crucial
conceptual weakness, for its objective of fostering public irrigation was not based on a clear
and convincing strategy for the development of the Northeast, nor on an economic assessment
of the merits of public investment in irrigation settlement schemes compared with other
public investment in agriculture. The type of public irrigation settlement projects which
NIETAP had to prepare came under scrutiny in the Bank's Irrigation Subsector Review of
September 1990. The review acknowledged the limitations of this type of schemes and
recommended a policy of staying away from new investment in this area. Although the
Review came late, it significantly affected the conceptual orientation of NIETAP project
studies. The result was that NIETAP endeavored to prepare a type of irrigation projects
which secure a mixed joint private-public development.
The main lessons to be learn from NIETAP are that engineering and technical
assistance projects oriented to preparing investment projects in a certain subsector should be
preceded by a subsectoral review where the development strategy and investment priorities
are clearly outlined. Additionally, in view of the long technical periods involved in
preinvestment activities, this type of project should be conditioned on long-term government
commitment to investment in the subsector, ensuring to the extent possible that investment
priorities will be maintained when preparation studies are ready.
Other lessons are that investment projects can benefit much from technical
assistance from non-profit agencies such as FAO, IICA and USBR, and that regular functions
requiring continuity, such as planning, coordination and monitoring of irrigation
development, should not be performed by ad hoc teams of seconded staff but by permanent
personnel who can be progressively trained and upgraded allowing cumulative institutional
build up. Finally, an interesting lesson from NIETAP is that many benefits can be derived
from partnerships of foreign and local consulting firms.






1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan No. 2680-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.      Project Identity
Project Name        Northeast Irrigation Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
Loan No.            2680-BR
RVP Unit            Latin America
Country             Brazil
Sector              Agriculture
Sub-Sector          Irrigation
2.      Background
2.1     NIETAP was envisaged at the time of the return of Brazil to democratic rule under
the Sarney Government in April 1985, when there was growing optimism linked to the new
political regime and the strong economic recovery of 1984-1985 after the deep recession of
1981-83. In agriculture, the situation was characterized by (i) stagnation or falling per capita
production of basic foods (maize, beans, rice, cassava), (ii) mounting divergence between
the South-Southeast, where major changes in production structure and productivity gains had
taken place, and the North-Northeast, where agriculture had experienced few changes, and
(iii) the impact left by the big draught of 1978-83, which affected particularly the Northeast.
Changes in GOB's rural development policy for the Northeast had taken place in those years,
placing emphasis on region-wide subsectoral programmes rather than on area-based IRD
projects. Irrigation was one of the subsectors to be developed.
2.2     Sarney's Government gave high priority to irrigation, institutionally expressed in
the appointment in February 1986 of a Minister of State Extraordinary for Irrigation Affairs,
for a term of three years, to which the three Federal irrigation agencies, DNOCS, DNOS and
CODEVASF, would be subordinated. Support to private irrigation development by means
of financial facilities and complementary infrastructure was seen as the dominant means to
foster irrigation in Brazil. A significant role, however, was assigned to public irrigation in
the Northeast. This was justified on the grounds of the high cost of irrigation in the
Northeast and the possible use of public irrigation to favor output and income improvement
of the small farming sector, which is especially poor in this region. An extremely ambitious
National Irrigation Program was designed to increase the irrigated area by 3 million ha in
1986-90, of which 400,000 ha of public and 600,000 ha of private irrigation in the Northeast



2
the Programa de Irriga,ao do Nordeste (PROINE)--, and 2 million ha of private irrigation
elsewhere in the country.
2.3      The Bank had at the time an optimistic view of its economic perspectives, and
decided to consider in its lending program financial support to the irrigation development
effort. Technical assistance to study the irrigation subsector, prepare irrigation projects and
assess the potential for private irrigation in the Northeast would be a beginning, to be
followed by lending for public irrigation in the Northeast and for private irrigation in and
outside this region.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
3.1      The long-term objective of NIETAP was to raise rural incomes and increase farm
output by making the Northeast less vulnerable to periodic droughts and the vagaries of
rainfall. The immediate objectives were to create an adequate stock of thoroughly studied
and well designed irrigation projects, the construction of which could be launched as soon
as the necessary financing were secured, and to provide technical assistance and training to
enhance the professional skills and managerial competence of the staff of the Executive
Secretariat of the Programa Nacional de Irrigacdo (PRONI)"and the three Federal agencies
which planned, constructed and operated public irrigation systems in the Northeast --
CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOSV. As indicated in paragraph 2.3, in preparing and
approving the loan, the Bank looked forward to be associated in the future with the
construction of some of the Northeast irrigation schemes studied by NIETAP. Thus, a new
project, the Northeast Irrigation I Project (Ln 3117-BR), aimed at financing public irrigation
development in the Northeast, was appraised by the Bank in 1989.
3.2      As a point of departure for feasibility studies and engineering design for specific
irrigation schemes, several sector studies related to irrigation in the Northeast were included
in NIETAP. Also included were studies of the potential for private irrigation in Northeast
valleys, and the identification of supporting public investments in infrastructure required to
attract private irrigation development. Finally, two pilot level schemes of 1,000 ha each,
with water pumped from the rivers Piranhas and Jaguaribe into the plateaux of Piranhas-Acu
and Jaguaribe-Apodi, were to be constructed and equipped under NIETAP. The pilot
projects would serve to test the potential for large-scale irrigation development in those
plateaux to be irrigated through the Sao Francisco Transbasin Project , and to compare
alternative systems of water command and control and different types and sizes of irrigated
holdings.
The Executive Secretariat of PRONI was created to assist and advise the Minister of State Extraordinary
for Irrigation Affairs to carry out PRONI and the Programa de IrrigaVdo do Nordeste (PROINE). The
Secretariat was later transformed into the Secretaria Nacional de Irrigaodo (SENIR), dependent on the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture, and, finally, into the Secretaria de Irrigacao (SIR), dependent on the
Ministry of Regional Integration.
v   DNOS disappeared in April 1990. Most of its operations in the Northeast were absorbed by DNOCS.



3
4.      Project Design and Organization
4.1     NIETAP was prepared in 1985 by the Superintendencia para o Desenvolvimento
do Nordeste (SUDENE), the Federal agency for Northeast development. In October and
December of the same year Bank appraisal missions assisted in giving final shape to the
project proposal. Being NIETAP a technical assistance project, the Bank did not prepare a
formal SAR document; the President's Report recommending the Loan to the Board of
Directors was directly drafted.
4.2      The design of the project was clear and simple and was well understood by the
implementing agencies. All the relevant agencies involved in irrigation in the Northeast were
selected to take part in the project. NIETAP filled a much felt GOB need of preparing
feasibility studies and engineering designs to expedite public investment in irrigation in the
Northeast. The components of the project and their scale were appropriate to the objectives.
4.3      With the benefit of hindsight, it can now be concluded, however, that NIETAP
had a crucial conceptual weakness, for its objective of fostering public irrigation was not
based on a clear and convincing strategy for the development of the Northeast, nor on an
economic assessment of the merits of public investment in irrigation settlement schemes
compared with other public investment in agriculture. The type of large public irrigation
settlement projects to be prepared by NIETAP were expensive to build and equip, and hence
were of questionable economic viability. They were also difficult to operate on a sustainable
basis by the users' organizations, and were not the best means to fight rural poverty or to
ensure food security in the Northeast.
4.4      The Northeast Irrigation Programme had justified public irrigation on the grounds
that (i) recurrent droughts and the vagaries of rainfall called for investment in irrigation to
decrease production risks and food insecurity, and that (ii) given the high cost of irrigation
development in the Northeast and the incidence of rural poverty, public investment was
needed so that construction and equipping could be subsidized and irrigated lands allocated
according to social criteria. NIETAP accepted this rationale without realizing that the type
of large public irrigation settlement schemes to be prepared by the project did not respond
to that justification.
4.5     Some of the sector studies prepared under NIETAP pointed to these anomalies, and
the large public irrigation settlement schemes came under scrutiny in the course of preparing
the Bank's Irrigation Subsector Review". The Review acknowledged the limitations of this
type of scheme and recommended a policy of staying away from new investment in this type
of large public irrigation projects, aimed to solve structural poverty problems. The core
message of the Review was that irrigation development with modem technology to produce
high value and agroindustrial crops should be done by private investors, under their own risk,
with GOB assistance, if required, in the form of supporting infrastructure. To this we could
add that if irrigation wanted to be used by GOB as a means for poverty alleviation, it should
be targeted to the poor, give priority to already settled areas and be based preferably on
small systems, easy to self-manage by farmers, making use of local water resources. There
"  Brazil: Irrigation Subsector Review. WB Report No. 7797-BR. Washington, September 18, 1990.



4
was considerable experience of this type of irrigation investment in the framework of the IRD
projects.
4.6     Although the Review came late, it significantly affected in practice the conceptual
orientation of the projects prepared by NIETAP because of Bank efforts to adapt the terms
of reference of on-going studies to the conclusions of the Review. The result was that
NIETAP endeavoured to prepare a type of irrigation projects which secure a mixed or joint
private-public development; main works, because of their scale or their distance from the
water source, would be constructed by the Government and the irrigation networks as well
as the on-farm facilities will be executed by the private sector. Some parts of each scheme
would be reserved for small farmers.
5.      Project Implementation
5.1     NIETAP was implemented between November 1986 and June 1993.  The
implementing agencies were the Executive Secretariat of PRONI, which was in charge of
project coordination and supervision, CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS. Implementation
was slower than expected and ran considerably behind the ambitious schedule envisaged in
the PR, requiring three extensions of one year each (Table 3). The main reasons for this
were the (i) slow and erratic release of counterpart funding, the (ii) administrative changes
in the Executive Secretariat of PRONI, (iii) the disappearance of DNOS, and (iv) the
difficulties experienced by the implementing agencies, especially by DNOCS, to adjust to
Bank rules for the selection of consulting firms, the allocation of construction contracts and
the procurement of irrigation equipment.
5.2     The Loan Agreement was revised in December 1989 to reflect changes in some of
the circumstances. The number of irrigation projects to be studied was increased from 12
to 16, the irrigated area in the Baixo Acu pilot project was increased from 1,000 to 3,000
ha and implementation responsibility transferred form DNOCS to the Secretaria de
Agricultura de Rio Grande do Nord (SAGRN), and the technical assistance from USBR was
extended from 2 to 5 years with a widened mandate. Changes were also made to the original
allocation of loan proceeds, and the closing date was extended.
5.3     The project was prepared and started with great vigour at a time when irrigation
enjoyed great momentum, but gradual decline was experienced in the priority assigned by
GOB to irrigation investments. At the institutional level, the "downgrading" of the Federal
institution in charge of irrigation from a Ministry to a National Secretariat and then to a
simple Secretariat, was a reflection of this.  This factor affected in many ways the
implementation of the project in the later years, particularly the budgetary allocation of
funds.
5.4     Because of Brazilian regulations, foreign consulting firms could not operate on their
own but had to form joint ventures with local consulting firms. This partnership limited the
participation of foreign firms in the preparation of the studies and, among other positive
effects, reduced the cost of these studies.



5
5.5      Notwithstanding  difficulties and  delays, on  the whole components were
implemented to a satisfactory degree within the expanded disbursement period and 90% of
the loan was disbursed. The cancellation of US$4.7 million at project completion resulted
from lower than expected costs of the studies rather than from implementation failure.
6.       Project Results
6.1      Sector Studies. Ten sector studies dealing with six subjects were prepared by
research institutes and consulting firms between 1986 and 1989 (Table 4.A). Quality was
good and results interesting, but the impact on the design of new irrigation schemes by the
consulting firms working on project preparation seems to have been limited, for study results
came too late and were not sufficiently disseminated. Nonetheless, the results from the crop
marketing studies served as reference in the preparation of feasibility studies started in 1989
and after, the study of energy costs served to justify separate electricity rates for irrigation,
the analysis of irrigation costs and farmers' repayment capacity was used for the preparation
of the subsector review, and the land tenure studies highlighted the equity weaknesses of
irrigation in the Northeast.
6.2      Potential for Private Irrigation. The potential for private irrigation development
in 65 Northeast valleys along perennial rivers in sites identified by SUDENE was studied.
The technical quality of the studies was satisfactory. The following aspects were reviewed
in each valley: soils, surface water resources, underground water resources, water balance,
possible forms of exploitation of the water resources and irrigation works needed, inventory
of existing infrastructure and assessment of complementary infrastructure required (roads,
energy, storage capacity), basic socio-economic data, land tenure situation, land use,
institutional situation, estimate of potential benefits, on-going development activities, and an
agriculture planning model for the area based on linear-programming.
6.3      From these studies it was concluded that 54 valleys had private irrigation potential,
it being possible to bring under irrigation an area close to one million ha. The investment
required was estimated at more than US$ 8.0 billion. The studies, however, have had little
impact for the time being in fostering private irrigation, partly because the Bank-supported
Irrigation Subsector II project, which should finance private irrigation in the Northeast, has
not materialized.
6.4     Included in the "Description of the Project" schedule of the Loan Agreement was
also the carrying out of studies and engineering designs for the infrastructure works required
to facilitate the development of private irrigation schemes. These studies were undertaken,
only for the Sertao of Sergipe/Alagoas Development Project, covering some 28,000 irrigated
ha.
6.5      Other Studies. With the agreement of the Bank, the project contributed in the
preparation of other studies not envisaged in the PR or in the Loan Agreement. Thus, four
studies were prepared on global aspects of irrigation development and policies in Brazil,
covering: (i) future demand for irrigated agricultural products; (ii) the economic efficiency
of irrigation; (iii) institutional aspects of irrigation; and (d) legal aspects of irrigation. These



6
studies served to prepare the Resenha Setorial de Irrigacao` on the basis of which the Bank
prepared the Irrigation Sector Review. NIETAP contributed also to the preparation of the
Northeast Irrigation I Project (Ln 3117-BR) and the Irrigation Subsector II Project (not yet
appraised), and funded the preparation of a technical assistance and agriculture development
plan for the 1,500,000 ha of the Plato de Irece, oriented to the regulation of underground
water extraction and the monitoring of aquifers. Technical support was provided by United
States Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) consultants financed by NIETAP for the preparation
of feasibility and engineering design studies financed by other sources of the Tabuleiro de
Russas project.
6.6      Preparation of Irrigation Projects. Project preparation studies were undertaken
by consortia of Brazilian and foreign consulting firms. Collaboration was fruitful (but not
always easy); the participation of local firms reduced preparation costs and offered good local
footing to foreign firms who, on their part, transferred substantial engineering and project
preparation know-how to their local partners. On the whole, the quality of the studies was
satisfactory. Feasibility studies of 17 irrigation systems were undertaken covering 657,000
ha of these studies, 12 were fully completed, three half completed and the remaining two
some 75 % completed (Table 4.B). Engineering design was done for seven projects for which
the corresponding projeto basico'was prepared covering a total of 96,000 ha. The PR's
target for feasibility studies of 12 projects covering some 500,000 ha was exceeded, whereas
the target of 300,000 ha of engineering design was not met, partly because falling GOB
commitment to public investment in irrigation reduced the scope for preparing projetos
basicos of new schemes. The large difference between the area covered by feasibility studies
and engineering design is also explained by the custom existing in Brazil of surveying large
areas at the feasibility level. Many feasibility studies could have been reduced with much
cheaper prefeasibility assessments, freeing capacity and resources for design.
6.7     In general, the engineering side of investment project preparation was abundantly
covered in the studies.  There were weaknesses, however, in the conceptual and
socioeconomic aspects (paragraphs 4.3-4.7). While the projects tended to be overdesigned
on the engineering side, they tended to be underdesigned from a socio-economic stand.
6.8      Pilot Projects. The construction and equipping of the Jaguaribe-Apodi and Baixo
Acu pilot projects experienced many delays and was not fully completed. In Baixo-Acu
operation started in 600 ha in early 1994 while no part of the Jaguaribe-Apodi scheme is yet
operational (Table 4. C). Procrastination in the construction of the Jaguaribe-Apodi pilot area
was due inter alia to a change in the original project design and political preference to the
construction, with national funds, of irrigation infrastructure in an adjacent area of the
plateau. In the case of Baixo Acu, slowness was related to land expropriation difficulties and
to problems with provincial and federal budgetary funding. Both projects suffered from the
conceptual weaknesses indicated in paragraph 6.7, and construction delays divested them of
their pilot function. The training of the farmers settling in the pilot projects envisaged in the
PR was not carried out due to the delay in the construction and equipping of the projects.
I/ Resenha Sectorial de Irrigagao. Ministry of Irrigation. Brasilia, December 1988.
v  In the Brazilian terminology projeto basico is the minimum engineering design required for contract tender.



7
6.9     Institutional Strengthening.  Technical assistance and staff training were
satisfactorily performed by FAO, IICA and USBR, significantly contributing to strengthening
the implementing agencies. The support of USBR was particulary appreciated by the these
agencies, including the preparation of 8 detailed, high-quality manuals on irrigation-related
matters. These manuals, of which only that dealing with the safety aspects of small dams
was envisaged in the PR, covered the following areas: irrigation planning; land classification
for irrigation; financial and economic analysis of irrigation projects; operation and
maintenance of irrigation projects; technical specification of irrigation works; evaluation of
small dams; preparation of irrigation projects; and construction of irrigation projects (Table
4.D). FAO's support to create a remote sensing and geographic information unit in
CODEVASF was also highly valued.
6.10    NIETAP helped much to organize a competent professional group to plan,
coordinate and monitor irrigation development at the federal level, something that did not
exist in Brazil. This group also provided technical support to the Northeast states in
preparaing their interannual irrigation plans. The group was located first in the Executive
Secretariat of PRONI, in the Ministry of Irrigation, and was later transferred to SENIR and
SIR. In-service training by international consultants assisted in the consolidation and
upgrading of this group. With the assistance of NIETAP, a project monitoring system was
established, and was used as a management tool by this group.
6.11    The other implementing institutions, CODEVASF and DNOCS, were also
strengthened with in-service and formal training through short courses to technical and
administrative staff, and with the support of international consultants. An important aspect
was the progressive, but always difficult, familiarization of these institutions with Bank
procedures for recruiting consultants, tender for construction contracts and procurement of
irrigation equipment.
7.      Project Sustainability and Follow-up
7.1     Unfortunately, the institutional changes affecting by the Executive Secretariat of
PRONI and the decreased priority of public investment in irrigation have resulted in the
virtual dismantling of the high-level federal irrigation planning and coordination team created
with project assistance. The fact that this team was formed with technical staff seconded
from various institutions made it vulnerable and liable to disappear.
7.2     The remote sensing and geographic information unit which NIETAP helped to
create in CODEVSAF will continue to operate, but excellence will be lost if funds are not
budgeted to allow software and hardware update and large scale entering of data. The
project monitoring system organized in the Secretaria de Irrigafdo continues to function but
at half steam, and is likely to die off if the Secretaria as a whole is not revitalized.
7.3     Uncertain investment follow-up to the feasibility and engineering design studies is
a crucial aspect of NIETAP. On the Bank's side, support to private irrigation development
in the Northeast following on the studies of private irrigation potential in Northeast valleys,
which was planned to take place under the Irrigation Subsector II project, will not be
forthcoming for the time being as the project has not been appraised. Investment in public



8
irrigation schemes under the Northeast I project has been reduced from 6 to 4 schemes and
disbursement has not yet started. On the Government's side, given the tight budgetary
situation, the macroeconomic disarray and the reduced priority for irrigation development,
few federal funds are available to construct new public schemes and there seems to be limited
will to borrow for this purpose.
8.      Bank Performance
8.1     With supervision involving a total of 60 staff weeks and 11 field supervision
missions (Table 8), the project received sufficient attention from the Bank. The Bank's
office in Recife provided good support to project supervision.
8.2     The main problems faced during implementation were identified by the supervision
missions and solutions proposed, which most of the time were carried out albeit not always
with the required timeliness. The revision of the Loan Agreement in December 1989 was
a wise decision that served to adjust project implementation to the evolving circumstances.
Supervision missions duly insisted on the delays and difficulties encountered in project
implementation due to the late provision of local counterpart funds, and brought this to the
attention of GOB and Bank management. Positive changes were made in the implementation
of the project at the insistence of supervision missions, such as, for instance, the
reorganization of the coordinating units in the implementation agencies, SAGRN measures
to solve the electricity supply problem for the operation of the Baixo Acu pilot project, and
many technical decisions concerning the selection of project areas to be studied, the
delimitation of these areas, and the terms of reference of consulting firms.
8.3     Upon the agreement of irrigation policy guidelines between GOB and the Bank in
the Irrigation Sector Review, supervision missions insisted that these be taken into account
by consulting firms in the on-going project preparation studies, basing project design on
private sector demand for irrigation development. But it was too late for this to have
practical consequences on project design, and consulting firms found it difficult to
incorporate private sector demand in public sector settlement schemes other than by
recommending that more of the new irrigated lands and larger holdings be allocated to the
entrepreneurial sector, thus exacerbating the equity problem.
8.4     The main lessons to be learnt from NIETAP, which are equally relevant to the
Bank and GOB, are that engineering and technical assistance projects oriented to preparing
investment projects in a certain subsector should be preceded by a subsectoral review where
the development strategy and investment priorities are clearly outlined. Additionally, in view
of the long technical periods involved in preinvestment activities, this type of projects should
be conditional on long-term government commitment to investment in the subsector, ensuring
to the extent possible that investment priorities will be maintained when preparation studies
are ready.
8.5     Other lessons are that investment projects can benefit from technical assistance
provided by non-profit agencies such as FAO, ICA and USBR, and that regular functions
requiring continuity, such as planning, coordination and monitoring of irrigation
development, should not be performed by ad hoc teams of seconded staff but by permanent



9
personnel who can be progressively trained and upgraded allowing cumulative institutional
build up. Finally, an interesting lesson from NIETAP is that many benefits can be derived
from partnerships of foreign and local consulting firms.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1     On the whole, project management by the Irrigation Secretariat under the changing
institutional arrangements was satisfactory.   Of the other implementing agencies,
CODEVASF performed better than DNOCS, whose bureaucracy found it difficult to adjust
to the demanding implementation norms of the Bank. The legal covenants stipulated in the
Loan Agreement were generally observed (Table 7).
9.2     The main difficulties in the implementation of the project coming from the
borrower's side were outside the responsibility of the implementing agencies, and consisted
of the late and erratic budgeting and release of local counterpart funds, and the institutional
changes in the Irrigation Secretariat.
10. Project Relationship
10.1    The Bank-Borrower relationship was satisfactory throughout the project, with
continuous dialogue between the implementing agencies and the Bank. The relation, in
particular, between the Irrigation Secretariat and the evaluation missions was excellent. The
presence of a Bank office in Recife was helpful in this respect.
11. Consulting Services
11.1    NIETAP being a technical assistance project, consulting services were at the core
of implementation. As indicated in paragraphs 6.1, 6.2, 6.6, 6.7 and 6.9, the quality of the
services provided by consulting firms and non-profit institutions was satisfactory.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1    PR and Loan Agreement provided a satisfactory framework for the implementation
of the project by GOB.
12.2    Copy of the studies prepared by NIETAP could be consulted by the mission in
CODEVASF, DNOCS and the well-stocked and managed library of the Irrigation Secretariat.
The Relatrio Final, Acordo de Emprgstimo 2680/BR, prepared by the Irrigation Secretariat,
provided useful data on project disbursements and costs and a systematic account of project
activities. The mission found difficulty in obtaining information from the Secretariat on the
number of m/m of technical assistance delivered under the contracts with FAO, IICA and
USBR, and the number and duration of the short formal training courses implemented under
the staff training programme. The Bank's Task Manager provided all information requested
from the Bank's project file to prepare Parts I and III of the PCR, gave valuable support to



10
the mission during its visit to Brazil, and shared with it his deep knowledge of the project
and of Brazilian irrigation issues and institutions.
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.      Evaluation of the Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
1.1     The Bank was very effective in dealing with the implementation problems, raised
by the executing agencies. The Bank's timely answers to technical and managerial issues,
were largely responsible for giving continuity to the project efforts. The Bank's supervision
missions were well planned, effectively implemented and provide good guidance for an
adequate implementation. The allocation of the Project Officer in Brazil, during the most
critical period of project implementation, expedited the solution of most of the processes
dependent on Bank's approval, mainly those related to procurement and disbursements .The
Bank was also very flexible in meeting new operational and managerial requirements arising
from the different administrative reforms undertaken by the Brazilian government during the
life of the project.  These working relationships, facilitated to the Government the
preparation of new investment projects, suitable for externally funded operations.
1.2    In retrospect, the following lessons may be learnt from the project implementation:
(a) the successful experience of on-site participation by World Bank project officer, suggests
that this practice should become standard, especially in large-scale projects such as those
currently being prepared by the Secretariat of Irrigation; (b) Bank should have been more
forceful in rigorously applying the covenants and conditionalities of the legal documents, and
putting more emphasis on both the technical requirements and the organizational structure
of the coordinating units.
2.      Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
2.1     In general, the project was unable to develop an adequate set-up for both the
Coordinating Unit at SIR's level and the Project Units at the level of CODEVASF and
DNOCS. The organizational project structure lacked of operational stability and trained
staff, which are key elements for continuing efforts and meeting planned targets in externally
financed projects.
2.2      The most relevant aspects of SIR and the executing agencies performance, during
the evolution and implementation of the project, were the following: (a) The Project
Coordinating Unit at SIR, underwent numerous changes as a result of three administrative
reforms. It also suffered a loss of status and leadership after beeing transferred from the
Special Ministry of Irrigation to the Ministry of Agriculture; (b)DNOCS did not create a
specific unit to carry out project activities, nor did it have capacity to execute them
Moreover, there were serious problems with respect to adapting the Agency to the Bank's
guidelines for procuremnet of works and goods, and the selection and contracting of
consultants; (c) CODEVASF, an institution experienced in dealing with internationally-
financed projects, had no problems in adjusting to World Bank procedures and guidelines,
and benefited the most from the International Technical assistance provided ny the project;



11
and (d) constant problems with counterpart funds caused delays in executing scheduled
project activities; high inflation rates and the lack of monetary correction also limited
financial execution.
2.3     Many lesson were learned from the performance of the Executing Agencies; the
most relevant among them are the following: (a) implementation of complex project requires
a well structured coordinating system, supported by appropriate inter-institutional
mechanisms; (b) manually performing physical and financial monitoring provide a good
experience to develop and implement a computerized system for monitoring of complex
externally-funded projects; and (c) well managed international technical assistance programs
which are one of the best tools to develop technical and quality standards among the public
and private institutions.
3.      Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
3.1     Relations between the Project Management Agency and the World Bank were
excellent. The effectiveness of the fruitful relation between the Borrower Agencies and the
Bank must be evaluated in light of the technical quality of the reports and studies prepared
by international joint-ventures of consulting firms, the timely disbursements of the proceeds
of the loan, and the appropriateness of the procedures adopted by the executing agencies to
overcome bureaucratic constraints.



PART m - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Title                                            Purpose                       Year of               Status                     Comments
Upper and Middle Sao Francisco   Rehabilitation of 17,800 ha of irrigated land and  1986   Completed in June 1993      Implemented by CODEVASF
Irriention Project n n 2719-RR)   develonent of 11.000 ha of new lands_
2     Itaparica Resettlement and     Development of 17,700 ha of irrigation for 5,300  1987      To be completed in          Project prepared with TA from
Irrigation Project (Ln 2883-BR)    families resettled becausc of construction of           December 1994               present project (Ln 2680)
_________ _________ ________ Itaarica  Hydroelectric  Proiect        __ _ __ _ _
3     Irrigation Sub-sector I Project  Technical and financial sugport for private     1928      To be completed in
(Ln 2950-BR)                        endand eI i             South, South-east              December 994
4    Jaiba Irr'gation Project (i     Development of irrigated agriculture on 23,600    1988      To be completed in June
3018-BRn i                     ha in the North-east region of Minas Gerais                 1947
5     North-east Irrigation I Project  Construction of six medium-size irrigation      1991      Disbursement not yet started.  Sub-projects to be financed
(Ln 3117-BR)                   schemes in the North-east totalling 51,000 ha                 oct reformulated to       were prepared by present
J _____________________________  .____________________________________________   ___          cude 4 schemes n.roect (Ln 26U26)
Table 2. Project Timetable
Itern                  Date Planned        Date Revised          Date Actual                               CommenLTitN
Identification/Preparation                                                1985                  Lozally identifie and prepared by SUDENE within the Irrigation
__________ _________ __________ _________ ________   _ _________ ________  roe m e   for  the  N rh e s    (PR  SUDE NE w t i   h     g to
ARpraisal Mission               _                                         October 1985          No formal SAR ore=ared
Loan Necotiations                     |_      _                           March 1986
Loan Signature                  _                    _                    06/30/86
Loan Fffectiveness                                  |                   | 10/30/86
Loan Closinv                         06/30/1990          06/30/1993       06/30/93              Threecxtensions of one vear each.
Loan Completion                                                           12/17/93              US$4.7 million cancelled.
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursement
(US$ ')
11                                           1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1986  19847     191{8   1989     1990       MI l91" 92            1 193
President's Report estimlte                                  __3._4        4,115      37.715      46.7        4.000          -           -    j      -
Actual                                                     I    -    .     2.         76.592.218. 149         21.306  |  31.348           .       43.304
fal ctuusas  r                                                              9fesimcnt:  |    -    | 7    | 191   i 353  44.4    I   65.3    1   76.1 1 L  9  |
Date of final disbursement:                                  December 1. 1993.                                                                       t



Table 4. Project Implementation
A. Sector Studies
PUBLIC IRRIGATION
Study                                   Purpose                             Status                           Impact/Comments
|                               ~~~~~~~~~~~(as indicated in President's Rewort)l
Crop marketing              Analyze local and foreign marketingprospects for         Completed   Three sets of studies prepared by Fundacao Jojo Pinheiro: (I) on
irrigated crops to be used by consultinmgeompanies                   market structure and prcec formation (3 vol. 1987), (2) on
preparing irrigation projects                                        potential domestic markets (3 vol 1988) and (3) on international
market perspectives (I'I vol. 1988-89). kesults used by consulting
companies as availab e.
2  Cost recovery of public      Analyze the repayment capacity of representative types of    Completed   Two separate studies prepared: one by FIPE, dated 1989,
irrigation                  farms and of the mvestment cost of public irrigation                  an19,   in detail trrigatpion costs in Brazil,and the other dated
ha) i n the Nrtayetaait.y of small irrigated farms (3 to S
ha)iAtheNoli--east prepared by Blanco do MordesIEENE.
Results showed average, ta (on- and off-fam )public irrigation
costs in the North-easl of US 12,000 per ha (US$ of 1987J.
Studies served for the preparation of subsector review and
formulation of subsector policy.
3   Settlement capacity and     Analyze the settlement capacity of potential irrigation  Completed   Two studies prepared by PRONI in 1988 with assistance of IICA
training needs of farmers   areas and assess the training necds of newly seled                    consultants one with a diagnosis of the situation and one with
farmners                                                             recommendations. No evicTence found by mission of practical
application of studies.
4  Land tenure issues           No purpose specified.                                    Completed   Seven studies prepared by the Instituto de Economia of UNICAM              UL
dealing with: the agrarian structure as an obstacle to North-east
development; review of the agrarian astructure of major North-ast
valleys; the agrarian structure in private and public irrigation
schemes; importance of share-cropping in irridgaed agriculture;
land expropriation for irrigation purposes; land concentration in
public       g irriation schemes; and the i shpact of irigation schemes on
The price o land. Results of the studies sumimarizked and published
as a book in 1989. Study served to shed light and create consensus
on land tenure issues related to irffigation, but no evidenco found
by mission of having a practical impact on project design.
5  Cost of energy for irrigation   Assess the impact of energy cost on irrigation        Completed   A study in 4 vol. prepared by HIDROSERVICE Engenharia de
development.                                                          Projetos Ltda. It ser-ved to support policy.for separate electricity
rates for irrigation, especially night rates, in the  orth-east.
6  Applied agricultural research  No purpose specified.                                  Completed   Study in 5 vol. prepared by EMBRAPA containing an assessment
of situation and givin prorities for aplied research on irrigated
agiculture in the NoM, North-east, Central-.ast, South-e,as an
Soiuth. Impact on changing research orientation unknown.



__________________                                               PRIVATE IRRIG kTlONQl
Study                        ~~~~~Purpose                         Status                           ImnpactlCormmentsl
Study                      (as indicated in President's Renort)             Status                           Impact/Comments
I   Potential for               Assessment and ranking of potential sites for private    Completed   Studies of 65 valleys of the North-east prepared by Geotecnica -
private irrigation          irrigation development along the perennial rivers of the              Tecnosolo covering some 950,000 ha or crop land. The following
North-east, and the infrastructure works required to                  aspects were studied in each valley: soils, surface water resources6,
facilitate the development of private irrigation.                     water balance, underground water resources, form of exploitation
and irrigation works required, inventory of existing infrastructure
and assessment of com plementary infrastructure required (roads,
energy, storage capaciy), basic socio-economic dats land tenure
situaion, land use institutional situation, estimate of potential
benefits, ongoing development activities, and proposal of a linear-
programming based mocrl of regional agriculture. Little impact
of studies inifostering private irrigation round by mission, partly
because the WB-supported Irrigation Subsector 1I Project, which
should have promoted private irrigation in the North-east, did not
materialize.
2  En~gineering design of       Preparation of engineering studies and designs for the  Not completed No evidence found by mission that these studies were carried out.
infrastructure               infrastructure works required to facilitate private
irrigation.
OTIEER STUDIES
Study                                   Purpose                             Status                           Impact/Comments
(as indicated in President's Report)
I  Irrigation Subsector Review    Not originally envisaged in project design.            Completed   Four partial studies and an overall Resenha Setorial dc Irrigapdo
no Brasil prepared in 1989. The partial studies covered: demand
for irrigation, irrigation experience, institutional analysis, and legal
issues. Studies were useful for policy formulation and discussion
between Gobernment and the Bank. Served as basis for the
Irrigation Subsector Review prepared by the WB in 1990.



Table 4. PnWect Implmentation
B. Preparation of Irrigation Projects
OVERALL ASSESSMENT
President's Report EstimAte                        Actual
Fcasibility studies:
No. of projects                                                                                12                                        17
Area (ha)                                                                                   500,000                                   657,000
2               Detailed engineering design
No. of projects                                                                               n.d.                                       7
Area (ha)                                                                                   300,000                                    96,000



ASSESSMENT OF INDIVIDUAL PROJECFS
Prqject         Location      Responsible      Type of Study       Consuting Finn              Area                  Completion                    Cowments
(State)      Institution                                                      (ha)                   Status
1 Baixio de Irec        Bahia         CODEVASF        Feaibility           IESA/MAGNA/                   156,000                  75%          Settlement plan and some infrastructure
GERSAR                                                              studies still to be prepared.
2  Barreiras None        Bahia        CODEVASF        Feasibility &        JP/ENCO/TAHAL                  3,300                   100%          Included for financing in Ln 3170-BR.
Enginering Design                                                                        Under construction; 12% of works
finished.
3 Jequitaf              Minas Gerais CODEVASF         Feasibility &        ENGEVIX/                      41,000            100% Feasibility 80%  Includes the construction of 2 dams which
Engineering Design    ENGECORPS &                                    Engineering Design  will generate electric power. Engineering
SONDOTECNICA/                                                       design of irrigated areas to be completed.
SOGREAH
4  Formoso H.            Bahia        CODEVASF        Feasibility &        THEMAG                         4,900                   100%          Included for fuiancing in Ln 3170-BR.
L _______________                                  Engineering Design                                                                       Under construction; 8% of works finished.
5 Salitre                Bahia        CODEVASF        Feasibility          JP/ENCO/TAHAL                 34,000                   75%           Contract interrupted twice for lack of
_____________________                              ____________________   __________________   __________________________   ____________________  funding.
6  Pontal                Pernambuco   CODEVASF        Feasibility and      NORONHA/TAMS/            Fcasibility 11,000,           100%          Bidding underway for civil works and
Engineering Design    GEOTECNICA          Engineering Design 5,200                       supervision of construction.
7 Serra do Ramalho      Bahia         CODEVASF        Feasibility          NORONHA/TAMS                  157,000                  50%          Two of the 4 phases of the study
completed. Study intcrrupted since 1990
for lack of funds.
8  Itanagc-BA-Brumado 11 Bahia        DNOCS           Feasibility          GEOTECNICA/                    7,500                   100%         Finished in late 1993
CANAGRO
9  Curu - Paraipaba      Ceara        DNOCS           Feasibility          AGUASOLOS/COBA                 4,700                   100%          Finished in late 1993
10 Baixo Acarad          Ceara        DNOCS            Feasibility &        TECNOSOLO/                    12,000                  100%          First phase of 8,500 ha included for
L ___________                                      Engineering Design    EPTISA                                                             financing in Ln 3170-BR.
11 Platos de Guadalupe    Piauf       DNOS/DNOCS   Feasibility &           IESA/MAGNA/GER           Feasibility 32,000,           100%          First phase is being developed with local
Engineering Design    SAR                 Engineering Design 15,000                     funds. Second and third phases of 12,000
ha to be included in La 3170-BR.
12 Piranhas - Acu        Rio Grande   DNOCS            Feasibility         JP/SOGREAH                    25,000                    50%          Only pro-feasibiity study completed.
do Norte
13 Itapicuru             Bahia        DNOCS            Feasibility          ENGEVWX/HYDROS               30,000                   100%          Existing studies were reviewed and
I            I/I IEUROCONSULT                                                                                          concluded that project was not feasible.



ASSESSMENT OF INDIVIDUAL PROJECTS
14 Itanag6               Bahia        DNOCS           Feasibility          GEOTECNICA/                   7,500                    100%          Good potential project but lack of time
CANTAGRO                                                            prevented preparation of engineering
_ __________________   ___________                  __________________                      ________________________                        design.
15 Jaguaribe-Apodi       Cear6        DNOS/DNOCS   Feasibility             HIDROSERVICEt                 75,000                   40%           Feasibility study interrumpted upon the
NORONHAIPRC                                                         disappearance of DNOS. Construction and
equipping of an area of 1,000 ha financed
___________________                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~under Lni 2680 as pilot project.
16 Tabulciros Litorfineos   Piauf     DNOSIDNOCS   Feasibility and         IESA/MAGNA                    15,000                   100%          First phase under construction with GoB
Engineering Design                                                                       funding. Second phase of 7,900 ha
_ _________________   __________   _____________                                                                                            included   in   Ln  3170-BR.
17 SertAo de Alagoas/   Alagoas/      SENIR/CODEVA  Feasibility            TECNOSOLO/                    41,000                   100%          Feasibility of irrigation project for an area
Sergipe              Sergipe      SF                                    EPTISA                                                              of 23,000 ha was concluded.
CONTRIBUTION TO OTHER PROJECT STUDIES
Project                                                                                          Comments
1      PlaIt de Irece                      A study financed by present project for the preparation by MAGNA/CAMPO/
EYSER consultants of a technical assistance and agricultural development plan for the 1,500,000 ha of the Plato de Irece with emphasis on the regulation of
under-ground water extraction and monitoring of aquifers. Not envisaged in project design.
2      Tabuleiro de Russas                 Technical support provided by USBR consultants financed by present project for the preparation of feasibility and engineering design studies (financed by
other sources) of the Tabuleiro de Rusms project.
3      New WB Projects                     The project gave a major contribution to the preparation of the Northeat I (La 3170-BR) and Irrigation Subsector 11 projects. Not envisaged in project
design.



Table 4. Project Implementation
C. Engineering and Construction of Pilot Irrigation Schemes
ENGINEERING DESIGN
Project                                                                                          Commets
I      Jaguaribe-Apodi                     Completed the engineering design of 1,000 ha included in the pilot project with national funds outside the present project.
2       Baixo Acu                          Completed the engineering design of 1,000 ha included in the pilot project plus 5,000 ha corresponding to the 2nd and 3rd phase with national funds outside
the present project.
CONSTRUCTION OF CIVIL WORKS AND ACQUISITION/INSTALLATION OF IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT
Project                                                                                          Comments
1      Jaguaribe-Apodi                     Construction of pilot project area completed with long delay and not yet operational because sprinlder and drip irrigation sytems not insaled. All equipment
acquired exccpt PVC pipe connections for drip irrigation. Delay in construction and operation of pilot system related to the construction of complementary  co
locally funded irrigation works in an adjacent area of which 1,750 ha are in operation.
2       Baixo-Acu                          Pilot project expanded to cover 3,000 ha instead of 1,000 ha. Some 80% of construction completed and 50% of equipment purchased. 600 ha have come
into operation this season. Delay in construction and operation related to problems of land expropriation and release of funds from Provincial and Federal
Governments.
TRAINING OF FARMERS SETTLING IN PILOT PROJECTS
Project                                                                                          Commnts
I        Jaguaribe-Apodi                     Selection of beneficigries for small and middle-size plots under way. No trining has hem done.
2       Baixo-A5u                          75 beneficiaries wevr selected for the 600 ha in operation. No evidence of training of these beneficiaries found by mission.



Table 4. Project Implementation
D. Institutional Strengthening
President's Report                                              Actual
Estimate___________________________________
I   Technical Assistance to Implementing Units   24 m/mr to upgrade management skills and 240 m/rn in   T.A. contalted to FAO, ICA and USBR. No data available to the
various technical fields.                         mission on number of m/rn delivered. Mission's judgement is that
delivery fully covered estimate, quality was good and impact
considerable.
2    Staff Training                           In-service training plus short formd courses for 250  Most training was in-service and was quite effective. Short formal
professionals and all clerical staff.             courses also provided but no information on numbers provided to
mission.
3    SUDENE Training Centre                   Repairs, expansion and equipping of building.      Works done with SUDENE's own funds. Reimbursement of 30% from
Ln 2680-BR according to Loan Agreement not effective because
SUDENE did not use ICB procedures for construction.
4    Microcomputer                            Acquisition of microcomputer for CODEVASF.         Done.
5    GIS and RS                               Not considered.                                    A remote sensing and geographic information sstem was created in
CODEVASF with project support. The centre responded to a much felt
need and is fully operational.
6    Irrigation Manuals                       Preparation of manual with safety guidelines for small    Preparation with USBR support of eight detailed, high quality technical
dams.                                             manuals on irrigation planning, land classification for irrigation, financial
and economic analysis of irrigation projects, operation and maintenance
of irrigation projects, technical specifications of irrigation works,
evaluation of snall dams, preparation of irrigation projects, and
construction of irrigation projects.



Table 5. Project Costs and FbSancing
A. Project Costs (US$ 'OCO)Y
Project Component                 President's Report Estimate                   Revised Estimate                              Actual
WB           GOB         TOTAL          WB            GOB          TOTAL           WB           GOB        TOTAL
A. Sector Studies                      2,400         5,924        8,324         3,061          1,250         4,311         1,678        2,854        4,532
B. Preparation of Irrigation Projects  26,300        22,318       48,618        19,685        13,210        32,895         18,025       11,952      29,977
C. Pilot Irrigation Schemes            10,500        28,103       38,603        16,070        42,346        58,416         14,055       37,685       51,740
D. Institutional Strengthening         3,550         2,563        6,113         9,184         3,240         12,4244        9,585        3,548        13,133
Unallocated                           5,250          792         6,042           0             0             0             0             0           0
TOTAL                                 48,000       59,700       107,700       48,000         60,046       108,046        43,343        56,039      99,382
B. Project Flnancing (US$'000)'
Expenditure Category           President's Rep. Estimate        Revised Estimate                    Actual              Actual as % of Revised Estimate
Loan      GOB      Total    Loan       GOB       Total      Loan       GOB       Total      Loan      GOB       Total
1. Consultant's Services
(a) Sector Studies: Public Irrigation  900     2,100    3,000  1  255        600       855        325        734      1,059       127       122        124
(b) Sector Studies: Private Irrigation  1,500  3,824    5,324    2,806       650      3,456      1,353     2,120      3,473       48        326        100     o
(c) Preparation of Irrigation Projects  26,300    22,318    48,618    19,685    13,210    32,895  18,025   1,952     29,977       92         90        91
(d) Engineering Design Pllot Projects  400      940      1,340      0         0          0          0         0          0         -         -         -
(e) Technical Assistance to GOB Inst.  2,400   1,733    4,133    8,206      3,240     11,446     8,292     3,541     11,833       101       109        103
2. Training                                           I
(a) Farmers Settling Pilot Projects   250       250      500        0          0         0          0         0          0         -         -         -
(b) Staff of Implementing Institutions  650       0      650       978         0       978       1,293        0       1,293       132        -         131
3. Works
(a) Construction of Pilot Projects   2,200     16,163   18,363    6,149    35,726    41,875      6,702     33,137    39,839       109        93        95
(b) SUDENE's Training Centre          100       230      330        0         0           0         0         7          7         -
4. Goods
(a) Equipment Pilot Projects         7,900     11,000   18,900    9,921     6,620     16,541     7,353     4,548      11,901       74        69        72
(b) Equipment Institutions            150       350      500        0         0           0         0         0          0                   -         -
5. Unallocated                       5,250       792    6,042        0         0          0         0          0          0         -         -
TOTAL                              48,000    59,700   107,700   48,000     60,046    108,046    43,343    56,039     99,382       90        93        92
Incurred up to Deceber 31, 1993. No breakdown avaiLabte by foreign exduage/tLocat coats.
Expenditures incurred up to Decder 31, 1993.



Table 6. Project Reslbts
A. Dirct Benefits
Not quantifiable
B. Economic Impact
Not applicable
C. Fnancial Impact
Not applicable
D. Studies
Included under Project
Implementation (Table 4)
Table 7. Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Setion                                 Description of Covenant                              Status                                 Commnteds
3.01(b)          Government to enter into agreement with CODEVASF                                           Formal Agreement amended after the extinction of DNOS by the
Government (applies to 5.01(a) to (c)).
3.01(c)          Government to enter into agreement with SUDENE                                   OK        Formal agreement made.
3.02            Execution Agencies to respect procurement Bank Guidelines                        OK
3.03(b)          Consultants to provide to the Bank copies of the documents prepared by them      OK        All documents required by the Bank regularly furnished by the consultants.
3.04            Government to discusa with the Bank recommendations and conclusions of the       OK        Implementation of Parts A.2(b) and B.2 of the project followed conclusions
studies prepared by consultants                                                           and recommendations previously discussed with the Bank.
3.04            The Executng Agencies to apply agreed Technical Standards                        OK
3.05            The Borrower to furnish to the Bank the annual training programme                OK
3.06            The Borrower to furnish to the Bank theGuidelines prepared under Part E of the   OK        The safety guidelines for small dams completed by the USBR and
project                                                                                   furnished to Bank.
3.07            The Borrower to cause the inpection of the NE smaDl dams                         OK
4.01            Executing agencies to maintain separate aceounts                                 OK        Done.
4.01((b)          Audit of CODEVASF, DNOS and DNOCS and timely submtission to Bank                OK        Done.
4.02            Special accounts audited in accordance with appropriate auditing accountants and  OK       Done.
timely subnission to Bank
5.01 (a)         CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS to insre against risks                                 NYD        To be enfomed after completion of pilot irrigation schemes.
5.01 (b)         CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS to earry out their operations in accordance with        OK        Done.
sound practic
5.01 (c)         CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS to operate and maintain their plats in accordance      NYD        To be enforced after compltion of pilot irrigation schemes.
with sound technical practices



Table S. Use of Bank Resomes
Project Preparation:    by SUDENE with Bank assistance.
Project Apprisal:     Appraisal Missions October and December 1985. No SAR prepared.
Board Approval:      April 22, 1986.
Signing:             June 30, 1986.
Effectivenes:        October 30, 1986.
Supervission Misions:
I        I                        I                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O,erall Performance
MonthlYear                 Durnation (days)               Persn                 p                          Rating
Nov 1986                        3                           1                  Engineering                  2
Jan- Feb 1988                     8                           1                                               2
July 1988                       5                           1                       *                       2
April 1989                      3                           1                       *                        2
Nov 1989                        5                           1                                               2
May 1990                        12                          1                                               2
Nov 1990                        3                           1                                               2
May 1991                        10                          1                                               2
Jan 1992                        7                          1                                                2
Aug - Sep 1992                    15                          1                                                2                                         N
June 1993                       15                          1                                               2
Staff/Weeks used:
Appraisal             25.9        Supervision FY 88     10.4              Supervision FY 93      7.4
Negotiation           1.2         Supervision FY 89     5.1             Supervision FY 94        6.9
Board Presentation    3.1         Supervision FY 90     5.4             Sub-totl Supervision  60.2
Supervision FY 86     3.3         Supervision FY 91     7.9             Toal Project            90.4
Supervision FY 87     9.6         Supervision FY 92     4.2



