Dowses of
The World Bank
FOR OFlCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4272-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$48.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE NORTHEAST IRRIGATION ENGINEERING
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 1, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                  -              Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                        _               Cr$8,186.5 (October 1985)1/
CR$ 1                          -              US$0.000122
Cr$ 1 illion                   -              US$122.16
Government of Brazil Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31.
Glossary of Abbreviations
CODEVASF                  Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao
Francisco
(Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company)
DNOCS                     Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department of Drought-Related Works)
DNOS                      Departamento Nacional de Obras de Saneamento
(National Department of Sanitary Works)
POLONORDESTE              Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the
Northeast)
SERTANEJO                 Programa Especial de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da
Regiao Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of
the Semi-arid Region of the Northeast)
SUDENE                    Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the
Northeast)
1/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal.



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST IRR.APTION ENGINEERING
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:             US$48 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Executing
Agencies:         Executive Secretariat for 2.Le National Irrigation
Program
Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company
(CODEVASF)
Natiodal Department for Drought-Related Works (DNOCS)
National Department of Sanitary Works (DNOS)
Superintendency for Northeast Development (SUDENE)
Project
Objectives:       Create an adequate stock of well prepared irrigation
projects for appraisal and construction, and provide
technical assistance and training for the staff of
CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS.
Project
Description:      The proposed project consists of (i) irrigation sector
studies; (ii) preparation for appraisal of twelve
irrigation projects, covering an area of 500,000
hectares, and preparation for construction of some of
these projects, involving a potential area of 300,000
hectares; (iii) construction of two pilot irrigation
schemes; (iv) institution building measures affecting
the executing agencies; and (v) drafting of safety
guidelines for small dams.
Risks:              The proposed project do.s not involve any special
risks. The strong support lent to irrigation
development in the Northeast by the Federal Government
should ensure the adequate and timely provision of
local funds for project execution. Satisfactory
quality of consulting services appears to be assured
owing to selection procedures which follow Bank
Guidelines.  In coordinating and supervising the
execution of the project, the Government would be
assisted by outside experts and this should warrant
smooth and efficient progress.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforce
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign    Total
Sector Studies                              -US$million--
Public irrigation               1.5        0.3        1.8
Private irrigation              2.7        0.3        3.0
Total                        4.2        0.6        4.8
PreParation of Irrigation Projects
in CODEVASF area               20.7        8.3       29.0
in DNOCS area                   8.9        3.8       12.7
in DNOS area                    7.6        3.3       10.9
Total                       37.2       15.4       52.6
Pilot Irrigation Schemes
Construction                   12.0        8.0       20.0
Settlement training and
production support           0.5         -         0.5
Total                       12.5        8.0       20.5
Instltution Building
Technical assistance            1.2        3.4        4.6
Staff training                  0.7        0.6        1.3
Civil works and equipment       0.5        0.2        0.7
Total                        2.4        4.2        6.6
Dam Safety Guidelines                                         0.2
Base Cost /a                          56.4       28.3       84.7
Physical contingencies                  8.4       4.3        12.7
Price contingencies                    6.8        3.5        10.3
Total Cost                             71.6      36.1       107.7
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total      X
-Us$million--
Government                     59.7/b        -       59.7      55
IBRD                           11.9       36.1       48.0      45
Total                       71.6       36.1      107.7      100
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY           87       88     89      90
---US$milliou -
Annual          12.7c   16.2   12.8    6.3
Cumulative      12.7    28.9   41.7   48.0
Rate of Return:            Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   None
Map:                       IBRD 19467
/a At October 1985 prices.
/b Includes local taxes of about US$11.7 million.
IE Includes initial deposit to the Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$48 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE NORTHEAST IRRIGATION ENGINEERING
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$48
million to help finance the Northeast irrigation engineering and technical
assistance project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3
years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled 'Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum- (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years.  This
completed a major stage of the return to fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and state representatives throughout Brazil.
In this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Dr.Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government. On his death in April 1985, Vice-President Jose Sarney became
President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives stated by
Dr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform,
economic growth and inflation control, with a strong social and
anti-poverty orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89,
presented to Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives
including the gradual recovery of real wages and, among Government
programs, a concentration on improving health, nutrition and housing for
low-income Brazilians. Reform of the public sector is a strategic
objective. The Government intends to concentrate more on "traditional"
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic
infrastructure, leaving directly productive activities increasingly for
private sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2% p.a., and a
more rapid increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an essential
condition a return to GDP growth of at least 6% a year. Three major
stabilization aims are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public
sector deficit, renegotiation of the external debt, and the control of
inflation.
1/ Parts I and II of this report are similar to that of the President's
Report for the Agricultural Extension II Project (Report No. P-4266-BR,
dated March 26, 1986).



- 2-
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% average annual growth in real
GDP in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a
significant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth
through policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for
industrial and agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import
barriers; investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for
imported oil; the expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign
borrowing. Between 1975 and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more
than doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5 billion, with total
obligations of approximately US$70 billion, including short-term debt. The
efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974 created strong
internal pressures and increased inflation. The economy remained
vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases in oil prices
occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates increased, the
current account deficit more than doubled to US$12.4 billion. Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110Z.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified
adjustment program. In February 1983, the IMF pledged financial assistance
of the order of US$5.4 billion through the Extended Fund Facility and
compensatory financing for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, for the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and
the commitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included
a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and
tight monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21Z and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit
was reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,
very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP
fell by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the



industrial and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12z
during 1981-83 and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers. Much of the social progress made in the 1970s-when all income
groups gained from economic growth and the expansion of education, health,
housing and urban and rural development programs-was undermined by the
recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984.  Balance-of-payments performance was
again highly positive, aided by exchange rate changes which fully accounted
for domestic inflation and by the strong growth of the US economy. An
unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was generated. Although
total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much of this surplus
resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US dollars, total
exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the comparable increase for
industrial exports was 37%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance,
and substantial net capital inflows, Brazil's international reserve
position also improved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7
billion. Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5% in real terms, or over 2% per capita. The increase in
manufacturing exports helped industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remained
small. Overall expansion was still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, high inflation (224%), and real interest rates of 30-40%.
10.       In 1985, GDP growth accelerated and is estimated to have reached
8.3% in real terms for the year as a whole. The recovery was led by
industry, which expanded by an estimated 9.0%, though investment spending
remained low.  Industrial employment inareased by at least 6%.  Open
unemployment declined significantly in 1985, in the major urban centers.
Agriculture expanded by an estimated 8.8%, contributing both to the balance
of payments and to domestic supply. Temporary price restraints imposed by
the new Government resulted in a reduction in price increases from nearly
12% a month in the first quarter of 1985 to 7.6% in the second. Subsequent
increases, however, brought the 1985 annual rate back to 235%,
significantly above the 1984 figure. Externally, the trade surplus
amounted to over US$12.4 billion, the current account deficit was about
0.5% of GDP, and gross international reserves remained at a level
equivalent to about 8 months of imports.
11.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from about 1.6% of GDP in 1984
to an estimated 3.3% in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized
industrial sector, including partial quarterly adjustments of wages,
resulted, at least temporarily, in real wage gains of 8-10% for these
industries, and Federal Government salaries were also increased to
compensate for large previous declines. Profits were high in many private
sector activities. Monetary policy from August 1985 was accommodating; in
fact, some of the expansion in the monetary aggregates that occurred was
aimed at reducing interest rates. With a sharp reduction in foreign
financing, the growing public debt was financed domestically at high,
though later declining, real interest rates. The real rate on Government



- 4 -
securities declined from 21% in August to 15% by the end of the year. For
the year, as a whole, the monetary aggregates increased faster than the
235% inflation: 251% for the monetary base, 312% for Ml, and 262% for M3.
12.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate
of inflation increased late in the year because of the need to raise public
sector and other regulated-prices that had been held down in previous
months and through anticipation of the effects of a drought in the South
which damaged food crops and coffee. Inflation reached monthly rates of
11% in November and 13% in December, followed by rates of 16% and over 14%
in January and February of 1986, respectively.  In late 1985, the
Government had prepared a program to reduce inflation gradually which was
centered around the reduction of the fiscal deficit to 0.5% of GDP. Taxes
were increased and there were cuts in Federal Government and state
enterprise expenditure. Budgetary control was strengthened in January 1986
by the unification of the fiscal and monetary budgets, transferring to the
Treasury the responsibility for programs previously financed by the Central
Bank and Bank of Brazil; the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a
second monetary authority; and the establishment of a National Treasury
Secretariat to centralize budget disbursements. A program for
restructuring and selective privatization of state enterprises was
initiated.   Alarmed by the spurt in inflation in December and January, the
Government tightened consumer credit and announced a plan to increase food
imports to offset the drought-related increase in agricultural prices. At
the same time, a shock-treatment approach to stopping inflation was being
prepared.
Economic Outlook
13.      On February 28, the Government initiated its new program for
stabilization and currency reform. Until then, the inflation outlook for
1986 was threatening. There were a number of inflationary factors needing
to be dealt with, including the disappearance of excess capacity in a
number of industries, the pressures to raise wages to pre-recession levels
and to protect workers from higher future inflation, the poor agricultural
harvest, and the need to raise some public sector tariffs and prices.
Moreover, there was a growing awareness that maintaining inflation at
200-250% a year, the rate of the prior three years, was likely to be very
difficult over the medium term. The economy was reacting very quickly to
new, negative shocks, and the indexation system made it hard to bring
inflation down, once the shocks were reflected in the pri_~e index. In
addition, the small size of the monetary base relative io GDP (about 2%)
and the high liquidity of Government bonds complicated the use of monetary
policy to reduce aggregate demand.
14.       The new program seeks both to eliminate the impact of past,
indexed inflation and to change future inflation expectations. It features
a currency reform, with the new cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros;
temporary price fixing for all goods and services; an exchange rate set at
Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period to be determined; wage adjustments to
their average real value over the previous 6 months, with annual
adjustments thereafter, at least partly indexed to inflation; the freezing
for one year of rent and mortgage payments; prohibition of indexation of
financial contracts for periods of less than a year, except for personal



savings accounts; the conversion of nominal cruzeiro contracts to
appropriate cruzado values; the conversion of indexed Government bonds to
cruzados at the parity existing on February 28, without any adjustment, at
least for one year, in the nominal value of the new bonds; and a number of
measures intended to liberalize the financial system. These sweeping
financial reforms were accompanied by plans to eliminate the fiscal deficit
and to use monetary policy to stabilize and, if possible, reduce real
interest rates. A limited unemployment insurance program was introduced.
Initial political and public reactions were highly positive.
15.       Preliminary assessments suggest that the reforms will provide
increased stability and encourage productive private sector investment,
although there are risks inherent in the reforms, including problems of
adjustment for the financial sector. The transition period could be marked
by a temporary reduction in growth, which will also be reduced in 1986 by
low or negative growth in the agriculture sector following the recent
drought.  The exchange rate remains competitive-previous mini-devaluations
against the US dollar, and the decline of the dollar, are estimated to have
provided a safety margin of 15-20%-and the February 28 wage adjustments do
not raise real wage costs. The large trade surplus remains
a positive factor for growth. While progress needs to be carefully
monitored, the economic outlook has on balance been improved by the
measures to restore internal stability to complement the strong Brazilian
performance in external trade and the balance of payments.
16.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazi'l are thus
encouraging, assuming the maintenance of sound exchange rate policies,
reasonable success in the implementation of the new stabilization package,
and the present determination to eliminate the public sector deficit, which
the reforms will help to achieve. A focus on further export promotion,
greater productive efficiency, improved resource allocation and increased
savings and investment will be required if annual GDP growth rates are to
remain high enough (6-7% on average) to restore living standards and
generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum) to fit new entrants
into the labor force and reabsorb those still affected by the recent
recession.
17.       The prospects depend on external factors outside the control of
Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social policies pursued
within the country. Recent developments, including the decline in
international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have been positive
for Brazil. A 1% drop in average interest rates means a balance-of-
payments gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in March with
commercial bank creditors, rescheduling maturities on 1985, rolling over
1986 maturities until early 1987, and reducing interest rates on this debt
from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over LIBOR, will reduce annual interest payments by
some US$140 million. A reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices
means a net gain of over US$100 million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and
therefore on the international economy, market access, and its own trade
policies. However, major structura'l changes in its trade accounts in
recent years, including substantial export growth and recent efficient
import substitution in both industrial products and petroleum, should make



it feasible to continue to generate large trade surpluses for several
years, even with nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of GDP growth
averaging nearly 7% in 1985-90, with additional foreign assistance. Total
medium and long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at an
annual rate of about 3.8% from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation. If all principal on this debt were repaid on
schedule, gross disbursements would need to rise from US$10.7 billion in
1985 to about US$17.7 billion in 1990, and amortization from US$9.8 billion
to about US$14.0 billion in the same period. Net medium- and long-term
lending, which is estimated at under US$1 billion in 1985, is projected at
an average of US$3.6 billion annually in the period 1986-90. For private
medium- and long-term debt, the projections are consistent with reductions
of total real commercial bank exposure to Brazil. Nevertheless, continued
net lending will be required, at a projected average level of approximately
US$2 billion annually.
20.       The projections suggest that interest payments on all debt would
fall from 39% of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1985 to about
24% in 1990. The total medium and long-term debt service ratio would fall
from 69% of goods and non-factor service exports in 1985, before the March
rescheduling, to a projected 52% in 1990. In the short run, in the absence
of continued debt rescheduling, debt service payments would have reached
levels threatening the recovery. The ratio of total external debt to goods
and non-factor service exports, which amounted to 3.6 in 1985, is projected
to decline to 2.6 by 1990. The results of any projections must be viewed
cautiously because of the uncertainties regarding domestic developments and
future international conditions. Nevertheless, Brazil has the economic
strength, and appears to have the management capabilities and the capacity,
to attract the relatively modest infusions of external capital needed to
maintain satisfactory rates of growth while continuing to meet its
international obligations. Thus, Brazil is creditworthy for new borrowing
on conventional terms in the magnitudes indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By September 30, 1985, the Bank had made 144 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$11,124.8 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, US$1,405.0 million in FY84, and US$1,054.5 million
in FY85. The undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1985 was US$4,278.9
million. Annex II contaius a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments.



22.       Over the FY77-84 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged
from US$425 million to about US$1,573 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. Nine loans totalling
US$1,523.0 million were approved in FY85. They were a US$300.0 million
loan for a third development banking project, a US$72.0 million loan for a
science and technology project, two loans totalling US$122.7 million for
rural development projects in the Northeast region, a US$16.3 million loan
for a technical assistance and pilot rural water supply and sanitation
project, a US$200.0 million loan for a railway project, two loans totalling
US$712.0 million for a power transmission project and a power distribution
project and a US$100.0 million loan for a land tenure improvement project
in the Northeast. Thus far in FY86 two loans have been approved: one for
a small towns improvement project in the amount of US$24.5 million and the
second for the Northeast Urban Reconstruction project for US$100 million.
Work is advanced for a second agricultural sector project; a power sector
project; a public sector management project; and several projects in the
Northeast region including five rural development projects, a metropolitan
urban development project, an agricultural extension project, an irrigation
project, and a health project.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$88 billion at the
end of 1985. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.8% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4.1%.
24.       As of September 30, 1985, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,032.95 million, of which US$685.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$347.22 million, US$262.07 million
represent loans and US$85.15 million equity.  A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1985 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil has been through a difficult transition period, achieving
only at substantial domestic cost, and with international cooperation, the
adjustments required to regain reasonable equilibrium in its balance of
payments. Economic recovery, export-led, began in 1984 when the GDP
increased by some 4.5%. For 1985, growth is estimated at over 8%. The
domestic stabilization measures which were introduced on February 28,
1986, improved the prospects for maintaining satisfactory growth rates in
the medium term. Stability and growth will depend on tighter public sector
expenditure and deficit control, increased savings and investment, and a
sound balance of payments. External and domestic resources will continue
to be constrained. The Bank lending strategy is therefore designed to
support the ongoing restructuring pro,cess, promote the mobilization and
effective use of resources, and contribute to the attainment of social and
regional development objectives to which high priority is being attached by
the Government.
26.       In the short run, the Bank will continue to help ease Brazil's
financing constraints through several modalities of the Bank's Special
Action Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983.
These include working capital financing and financing of a higher share of



- 8 -
project costs. Also, greater use is being made of Project Special Accounts
into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need
for the Government to prefinance the Bank's share of project costs.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil in sustaining efficient growth. One focus of the lending program is
on structural transformation and efficient resource use. Expanding export
capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development while promoting efficiency through exposure to
international competition. Sector loans to industry and agriculture,
envisaging a restructuring of incentive and trade policies in support of
Government initiatives, have been approved by the Executive Directors.
Follow-up loans designed to support the next steps in this adjustment
process are under preparation. Given agriculture's large potential
contribution to export growth and import substitution, adjustments in this
sector will be crucial to Brazil's stabilization and growth. Sector loans
in support of financial and fiscal reforms will help promote the flow of
resources to the private sector. Lending in support of the financial
restructuring, rehabilitation and development of the energy and industrial
sectors is also envisaged.
28.       Another lending priority is the rehabilitation and development of
infrastructure.   Lending for energy development has addressed the need to
reduce petroleum imports while providing the energy required for
maintaining high rates of economic growth in the future. In the electric
power sector, the Bank's role will be to assist the Government and sector
authorities in their efforts to improve the financial condition of the
sector through realistic investment and financial policies.  Lending for
transportation will be directed toward the rehabilitation and maintenance
of the existing transportation network with expansion in areas where
economic activity is outgrowing present capacity.
29.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditicns. Previous loans for primary education,
vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension, polder
construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and integrated rural
development were designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas,
especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans for water
supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban transport
in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost
housing, and four loans for urban development in two metropolitan areas, in
medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Future lending in the health
sector will seek to extend coverage of basic health services in the
Northeast, and to combat endemic diseases in the Northeast and the
Northwest. Continued lending for integrated rural development and



-9-
irrigation projects in the Northeast of Brazil will support the Government
objectives to further alleviate poverty, by addressing the region's
vulnerability to drought, inadequate structure of regional institutions,
and concentration of land ownership. Further lending for urban development
will address ways to improve urban services and infrastructure, while
simultaneously strengthening the financial basis of municipalities,
particularly in the Northeast region, with a view toward self-financing of
investments and cost recovery. New projects for water supply and sewerage
will also foster these goals while extending services to rural areas and to
the low-income urban population.  Education lending will continue to
strengthen financial and administrative institutions while also increasing
the contribution of education to the development process, especially in the
Northeast. The proposed project, the third aiming at the development of
irrigation in Brazil, would meet the urgent need for an adequate stock of
thoroughly prepared and engineered irrigation projects, which could be
launched in the semi-arid zones of the Northeast as soon as the necessary
financing has been secured. These projects would provide water to small
farmers settled on family plots of land, thus enabling them to increase
production and earn better incomes.
30.       Improving the efficiency of the public sector and supporting the
Government's efforts to reduce the public sector deficit are important
components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. A special Public Sector
Management project, designed to strengthen planning and management
capabilities at Federal level, is advanced in preparation. The Bank is
also undertaking a review of public sector investment programs and is
supporting the Government's efforts to rehabilitate state enterprises.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
uevelopment prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation helped Brazil in the past to obtain additional
resources from bilateral credit agencies and private financial
institutions. Since 1976, 11 cofinancing operations for about US$570
million were arranged and signed with private financial institutions.
Cofinancing opportunities were rather limited in Brazil in the past four
years, as the volume and terms of commercial bank financing available to
Brazil were determined within the framework of debt rescheduling
negotiations. Given Brazil's recent progress in restoring balance of
payments stability and the current efforts to control inflation, the
prospects for obtaining new external financing from commercial sources are
now improving.  Cofinancing could become important again in the near
future, and the new cofinancing instruments developed by the Bank could
play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil additional
resources for high priority projects, with better financing terms.'
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN THE NORTHEAST
Agriculture in the National Economy
32.       Although its relative importance within the Brazilian economy has
declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing - as of 1982 -



- 10 -
about 30% of the labor force, and contributing about 11% to the GDP and
about 38% to total export earnings. During the 1970s, the gross value of
agricultural production grew at an annual rate of nearly 5%. Since 1980,
however, it has declined, reflecting lower international commodity prices,
adverse domestic pricing policies and a restricted supply of agricultural
credit, in addition to unfavorable climatic conditions. Per capita
production of basic foods, such as maize, beans, rice and cassava, has also
fallen. While in most years Brazil has remained self-sufficient in food,
except for wheat, periodic imports of beans, maize and rice have occurred,
particularly in bad crop years.
33.       In recent years, the share of agricultural land devoted to
industrial and export crops (sugarcane, cocoa, soybeans, citrus and
tobacco) has risen sharply. Brazil is now the world's largest producer of
coffee and sugarcane, the second largest producer of soybeans, and the
largest exporter of coffee and orange juice. The changing structure of
agricultural production reflects the fact that most productivity gains,
expansion in production area and increased market integration have occurred
in the South and Southeast, while the North and Northeast have continued to
follow traditional agricultural practices. Because of the sector's key
role im increasing food supplies and rural incomes, and improving the
country;s balance of payments, the Government has shown a strong commitment
to agricultural development.2/
The Rural Northeast
34.       The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and
Bahia, as well as the northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais and the
federal island territory of Fernando do Noronha. Its area exceeds 1.5
million km2, or 18% of the country's total area. The country's wealthiest
region during the colonial period, it subsequently lagged behind as
industrial, agricultural and commercial activity shifted to the south, and
-- since the late 1800s -*-* has been viewed as the nation's foremost problem
region.
35.       Drought and uncertain rainfall, highly skewed land distribution
and limited urban employment opportunities have resulted in widespread
poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people
migrated from the Northeast. The large number of recent migrants is
partially the result of five successive years of severe drought affecting
large areas of the Northeast from 1978 to 1983. In 1980, the Northeast had
a population of 35 million (about 29% of the national total), growing at
2.2% per annum, and an average population density of 22.5 Inhabitants per
km2. About one-half of the population lives in rural areas, and more than
one-half of the regional work force is engaged in agriculture. Ownership
of agricultural land throughout the Northeast is highly concentrated: farms
under 10 ha., accounting for 70% of all farms, occupy less than 6% of total
farm area; farms over 500 ha., or 1% of all farms, more than 40%. Rural
incomes are very low. As of 1980, over 80% of the rural population earned
one minimum salary of about US$675 annually or less, i.e., a little over
35Z of the national average; and the poorest 50% received only about 10% of
total regional income.
2/   Subject to change prior to Board presentation.



- 11 -
36.       The Northeast contributes about one-fifth to the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sugar,
cocoa, cotton, sisal and cassava) represent significant shares of national
production. In terms of climate, topography and vegetation, the region can
be sub-divided in four zones. An eastern coastal forest zone, covering
about 8 percent of the area contains about 30 percent of the regional
population, and a major proportion of industry and plantation agriculture
(largely sugarcane and cocoa). The agreste, accounting for some 16 percent
of the area and about 20 percent of the population, is a transition zone
with some semi-arid areas, dominated by mixed farming for the domestic
market, as well as the raising of beef and dairy cattle. The semi-arid
sertao, by far the largest zone, takes up 50 percent of the land; it is
sparsely populated by one third of the inhabitants of the region and is the
most vulnerable to periodic drought. The fourth zone, the Middle North,
consisting of Maranhao and most of Piaui, occupies 25 percent of the area
and claims 20 percent of the people of the Northeast.
37.       Rainfed agriculture in much of the Northeast, and especially in
the sertao, is limited mainly to subsistence crops and to extensive
livestock production. Due to high climatic risks, difficulty in obtaining
land, lack of access to credit, and inadequate production support services,
most rainfed farmers in the 'drought polygon' including large parts of the
northeastern states, except for Maranhao, hava not adopted high value crop
production methods.  The large sums spent by the Government in the
Northeast for disaster relief in drought years have gone primarily to
support rural small-holders in the sertao whose rainfed crops have failed.
Government Policy for the Rural Northeast
38.       Until the 1950s, most of the Federal Government interventions in
the rural Northeast were limited to drought relief works and emergency
programs, and to incentives for export crops. The slow pace of
socio-economic development led to the creation in 1959 of the
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). Originally
attached to the Office of the Presiden. of the Republic, SUDENE had been
responsible for regional policy planning, and for the coordination of all
public investment activities and of fiscal and credit incentives to attract
new private investment. During the 1960's, public investment in transport,
power and other infrastructure, and tax and other incentives, spurred the
development of private industry. While the resulting migration from rural
to urban areas affected to some extent the living conditions among the
peasantry, the Government's industrialization measures did not make any
meaningful dent in poverty and underemployment prevailing on the land.
Recognizing this fact, the Government adopted - in the 1970s - policies to
ease the situation in the rural Northeast, by increasing the productivity
of local farmers and opening up the Northwest to new settlers. Policy
formulation for the Northeast became more and more the responsibility of
the Ministry of Interior. Development of agriculture was being promoted,
with SUDENE largely concerned with the coordination of federally-funded
special rural programs.
39.       The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The
first approach was integrated rural development, focusing on specific



- 12 -
target groups. Programs following this approach included the Development
Program for Integrated Areas In the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), which seeks
to raise productivity on small farms by providing a variety of investments
and services, and the Special Program of Support for the Development of
the Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), largely concerned with
making agricultural pursuits more resistant to recurring drought. Several
complementary programs, including the Northeast Water Resources Program and
the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well as federal irrigation
projects involving mainly construction of storage reservoirs in the
Northeast, have attempted to increase the productive use of scarce water or
to provide temporary drought relief.
40.       The second approach to the problems of rural development, which
evolved in 1982, implied more attention to the security of tenure, the
quality of the soil and the availability of water on the farm. The special
rural programs were no longer to be integrated area by area, but considered
on a state-wide basis along functional lines. A series of region-wide
sector programs has been worked out to support this approach. One of these
programs is a fifteen-year Federal Irrigation Program based on a
comprehensive regional policy framework and dealing with irrigation works
which are part of rural development projects.
Past Bank Lending in the Northeast
41.       The Bank has made 33 loans, totalling US$2,045.6 million,2/ for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. Many of these loans were for
projects with nation-wide impact, but about fifteen were for various
settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, located in the
Northeast3/. The Project Performance Audit Report of December 29, 1982,
for the Alto Turi Land Settlement Project (Loan 853-BR) showed that the
project raised settler incomes beyond expectations, but was less successful
in the areas of environmental protection, community organization and the
strengthening of cooperatives. The Project Performance Audit Report of May
23, 1985, for the Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR)
demonstrated that despite long delays due to substantial design changes
during project execution and to social tension in the area, net family
incomes increased beyond original estimates and small farmers were capable
of moving successfully from subsistence to commercial agriculture. The
ongoing Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project (Loan 1729-BR) is
progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by CODEVASF in a
seven-year period ending in Decenber 1986.
42.       Ten of the Bank-financed projects in the Northeast are integrated
rural development projects of the POLONORDESTE type located in eight
States. Approved between 1976 and 1982, all these projects have
experienced execution and disbursement delays, and only two have been
completed to date. Among the reasons are the unusually severe and
prolonged 1978-83 drought, delays in providing local funds, limited
execution capacity for carrying out small-scale irrigation activities, and
initial lags in the generation of drought-resistant technology for small
farmers. As yet, no project completion report has been prepared.
2/   Subject to change prior to Board presentation.
3/   A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast, Washington, D.C., 1983.



- 13 -
43.       As part of the Northeast Rural Development Program of 1984, the
Executive Directors approved in April 1985 the first and second Northeast
Rural Development Projects in Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte, respectively
(Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR). A loan for the third Northeast Rural
Development Project in Bahia has been negotiated. Land tenure improvement
activities in the Northeast are being financed under Loan 2593-BR made on
October 15, 1985.
Irrigation in the Northeast
44.       The National Irrigation Law of 1979 defines national irrigation
policies, rights, obligations and institutional responsibilities. The Law
distinguishes between 'public- and 'private" irrigation. Federal public
irrigation systems in the Northeast are planned, constructed and operated
by the Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company (CODEVASF) and the
National Department of Drought-Related Works (DNOCS). CODEVASF, a
Government owned company established in 1974 and run along private
enterprise lines, is responsible for the execution of major public
irrigation systems in the Sao Francisco Valley. DNOCS, established in 1945
as a Government agency and subordinated to the Ministry of Interior until
February 1986, is responsible for the development of public irrigation
elsewhere in the semi-arid Northeast. In the last few years, the National
Department of Sanitary Works (DNOS), another Government agency established
in 1940 and subordinated to the Ministry of Urban Development and
Environment until February 1986, has also begun to develop irrigation
projects in the Northeast. Private irrigation projects are those carried
out through private initiative with - or without - Government assistance
and incentives. Most of them are financed with the help of the nation-wide
Program for Irrigation of Flood Plains and the Financing Program for
Irrigation.
45.       At present, CODEVASF operates 18 irrigation projects, including
the Bank-financed Lower Sao Francisco Polders and Sao Francisco Second
Irrigation Projects, with some 40,000 ha. fully developed and 25,000 ha. in
various stages of construction. DNOCS has 27 irrigation projects in
operation, covering a total area of about 26,800 ha. However, agricultural
production in the irrigated perimeters has been generally disappointing.
The principal obstacles to achieving originally expected results have been
construction delays due to design errors and poor supervision, and erratic
annual budgetary allocations to CODEVASF and DNOCS for operation and
maintenance which tended to be related to the incidence and severity of the
drought.
46.       Cost recovery through water charges is stipulated in Decree
89.496 of March 29, 1984, which regulates public irrigation in the montext
of the National Irrigation Law. The Decree provides for an area-based
charge levied to recover all or part of the cost of investment made in
common infrastructure by Federal Government agencies, and for a
volume-based charge intended to meet in full their operation and
maintenance expenses. To comply with the provisions of the Decree,
CODEVASF has - over the past two years - gradually increased its billing of
small farmers for water charges, achieving in recent months (i) full
recovery of operation and maintenance expenses for 11 of the irrigation



- 14 -
projects operated by it, including the two Bank-financed projects (paras.
41 and 45 above); and (ii) a 60Z recovery in the case of the 7 projects,
which are to be rehabilitated under the proposed loan for the Upper and
Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project. In addition, CODEVASF has been
recovering a modest 15Z-20Z of the cost of the capital investment, adjusted
for inflation but without interest from farmers in the irrigated perimeters
of all its 18 projects. At present, 90% of the farmers in the irrigated
area of the two Bank-financed projects pay their water bills in full,
whereas only 45% to 90% of the farmers in the irrigated perimeters of the
remaining 16 projects are meeting their payments. DNOCS has beer striving
to match the record of CODEVASF but information about the rate of cost
recovery from irrigation projects operated by it is fragmentary.
47.       Under the proposed loan for the Upper and Middle Sao Francisco
Irrigation Project, the Federal Government and CODEVASF would commit
themselves to set water charges at levels sufficient to reduce the 40Z
subsidy for the operation and maintenance of the 7 projects to be
rehabilitated, and to take several measures - culminating in the eviction
of delinquent farmers - to enhance the collection of water bills and reduce
accounts receivable. As to the capital investment made in public
irrigation projects, CODEVASF would commit itself to achieve the recovery
of its cost in accordance with the respective provisions of the 1984
Decree; in addition, CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS look to the conclusions of
the study, which would be carried out under the sector studies' component
of the proposed project and should, inter alia, show which level of
recovery of the investment cost could be sustained by representative types
of individual farms (para. 56 below).
48.       The traumatic effects of the 1978-83 drought have caused the
Government to review its development policies, priorities and pl;ns for the
Northeast.  In the outcome of the review, a five-year Irrigation Program
for the Northeast was enacted by Decree on January 29, 1986. Its target
is quite ambitious: it proposes to increase the area under public and
private irrigation in the Nvrtheast by one million hectares during the
years 1986-90. Two weeks later, in order to streamline the decision-making
and speed up the preparation and execution of irrigation projects, the
President of the Republic appointed a "Minister of State Extraordinary for
Irrigation Affairs- for a term of three years. The appointment was made in
the Decree of February 12, 1986, instituting a three-year National Irriga-
tion Program and subordinating to the Minister the three Federal irrigation
agencies, DNOCS, DNOS and CODEVASF, with all their personnel and other
resources.  The Minister is being assisted and advised by an Executive
Secretariat for the National Irrigation Program. Responsibility for
irrigation components of rural development projects remains with SUDENE;
SUDENE will also assist the Minister in managing private irrigation
matters.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Background
49.       The Bank's involvement in the proposed Northeast Irrigation
Engineering and Technical Assistance project started in late 1983, after
the Federal Government asked the Bank to help finance the execution of the



- 15 -
proposed Sao Francisco River Transbasin Project, which would divert waters
from the Sao Francisco River to the parts of the semi-arid sertao located
outside the river basin. At that time, the Bank recommended that the
Transbasin proposal be reviewed by independent consultants and presented in
the form of an Action Plan. The Action Plan would bring together the
technical, economic, social and environmental aspects, and help decide
whether the merits of the Transbasin proposal would justify a lengthy
preparation effort. The Government having accepted the Bank's
recommendation, the studies were carried out under terms of reference drawn
up by DNOS in agreement with the Bank and were paid for out of the proceeds
of the Bank's 1979 loan for rural development in the State of Rio Grande do
Norte (Loan 1195-BR).
50.       Completed in 1984, the Action Plan determined that the diversion
of the Sao Francisco River into the sertao, to irrigate large tracts of
land in the States of Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba and Pernambuco
should not be initiated for another 12 to 15 years; in the meantime,
however, the Government should proceed with a first phase of the Transbasin
proposal, namely, the development of local water resources to irrigate
110,000 ha. in the States.of Ceara and Rio Grande do Norte. The initial
step in the context of this first phase would be the preparation of
technical and economic feasibility studies for local water development in
the Jaguaribe-Apodi area of Ceara and the Piranhas-Acu area of Rio Grande
do Norte, covering 82,000 and 28,000 ha., respectively.
51.       In July 1985, the new Federal Government notified the Bank of the
high priority accorded to irrigation in the Northeast and requested it to
help finance final engineering and construction of the two pilot irrigation
schemes in the Jaguaribe-Apodi and Piranhas-Acu areas. The Government also
asked the Bank to help finance the preparation of certain sector and
feasibility studies, and of engineering designs, which would pave the way
for the exec'ition of a number of high priority public irrigation projects
included in the five-year Irrigation Program for the Northeast. This
program, enacted in January 1986 (para. 48 above), had been drawn up by a
technical commission set up by SUDENE, which recognized that the lack of
properly prepared irrigation projects has been the foremost obstacle to
large-scale execution of public irrigation works. An appraisal mission
visited Brazil in October and December, 1985. Negotiations were held at
the Bank's headquarters between March 18 and 21, 1986, with a Brazilian
delegation led by Ms. Stael Martins Baltar of the Planning Secretariat.
The Need for Technical Assistance
52.       The Irrigation Program for the Northeast, as drawn up in 1985,
aims at irrigating 1 million ha. in the Northeast in the next five years.
It includes about 50 projects, which have been identified over the past 20
years, or so, and are in varying stages of preparation. Some of these
projects require topographic and soil surveys, some call for technical
and/or economic feasibility studies, and most are lacking detailed
engineering designs and tender documents. In order to prepare them for
appraisal by potential financiers, Federal Government agencies in charge of
irrigation in the Northeast need the help of consultants to carry out the
necessary studies and engineering. These agencies are also in need of
strengthening to enable them to manage an extensive program of studies, not



- 16 -
to mention the eventual construction, operation and maintenance of
irrigation projects.
53.       Although there are a number of Brazilian consulting firms capable
of carrying out most of the studies required, including several firms which
have successfully performed such work under Bank Group fiuaanced projects in
other countries, the scale and complexity of the work involved in a number
of the proposed studies would probably exceed the present capacity of the
Brazilian firms. Consequently, there would be a need to seek expertise
outside Brazil to assist both CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS, and the local
consulting firms.
Project Objectives
54.       In the longer perspective, the proposed project would aim at
raising rural incomes and increasing farm output by making the Northeast
less vulnerable to periodic drought and the vagaries of rainfall. Its
im ediate objectives would be to: (i) create an adequate stock of
thoroughly studied and well designed irrigation projects, the construction
of which could be launched as soon as the necessary financing has been
secured; and (ii) provide technical assistance and training to the staff of
the Executive Secretariat, CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS, with a view to
enhancing professional skills, and managerial competence and efficiency.
As a point of departure for feasibility studies and engineering for
specific irrigation projects, several sector studies would be carried out
to complete and refine the information available to the Government. In
considering the proposed project as a vehicle for a loan at this time, the
Bank looks forward to being associated in the future with the construction
of some thoroughly prepared and evaluated irrigation projects in the
Northeast.
Project Description
55.       The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a) sector studies;
(b) basic surveys, feasibility studies and preliminary
engineering for twelve pre-selected irrigation projects,
covering an area of over 500,000 ha., and final engineeering
design and bidding documents for some of these projects,
involving a potential area of about 300,000 ha.;
(c) final engineering and construction of two pilot irrigation
schemes of 1,000 ha. each, and training and production
support for small farmers to be settled on the land;
(d) technical assistance to, training for the staff of, and
civil works and equipment for, the executing agencies; and
(e) preparation of safety guidelines for small dams.
The Federal Governmfent would coordinate and - assisted by the US Bureau of
Reclamation and/or another organization - supervise the execution of the



- 17 -
proposed project. It would also directly manage some of the component
parts. CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS would be the executing agencies for the
other components.
56.       The studies of the irrigation sector would be conducted by the
Executive Secretariat for the National Irrigation Program with the help of
consultants.  A ranking official of SUDENE, well known to the Bank, was
transferred to the Secretariat to be in charge of all sector studies. The
purpose of one set of studies would be to provide support for the
preparation of public irrigation projects included in the Irrrigation
Program for the Northeast, whereas the other - more expensive - set of
studies would be designed to support the improvement and expansion of
private irrigation schemes. The first set would comprise six sector
studies. One of them would be a marketing study to analyze - in the first
nine months of the implementation of the proposed project - the prevailing
and projected supply and demand conditions in local and foreign markets,
taking into account yield and production increases expected under the
Irrigation Program for the Northeast. The findings of this study, and the
already available information on the agricultural production potential,
would make it possible to formulate recommendations on cropping patterns
which would be passed on to the consulting firms retained to carry out
feasibility studies for the twelve pre-selected irrigation projects. A
second study would deal with the recovery of the cost of completed public
irrrigation projects, taking into account the water charges, and would also
consider issues related to the cost of land borne by the farmer, and to
various levies and taxes payable by him. This study should show the impact
of different cost recovery levels on the cash flow of representative types
of individual farms. A third study would assess the settlement capacity of
potential irrigation areas and the training needs of farmers, who would be
settled on irrigated land and expected to obtain high yields through
correct use of water resources. The conclusions of this study would also
be used by the consulting firms in the preparation of the feasibility
studies. The other three studies would be concerned, respectively, with
land tenure issues, with the influence of the cost of energy on irrigation
development, and with irrigation technology and applied research.
57.       The second set of sector studies would address the private
irrigation schemes situated along the perennial rivers of the Northeast.
In the past, SUDENE had identified a large number of potential sites for
improving or expanding river-bank irrigation. The work involved would
include a review of already existing surveys and studies, an inventory of
infrastructure on each of the sites, an evaluation of water resources and
requirements for each site (emphasizing competing private and public
claims), the ranking of the individual sites in function of their
agricultural potential, and - subject to the Bank's approval - the
preparation of further studies and of engineering designs for some
infrastructure works required to facilitate the development of private
irrigation.
58.       The basic surveys, feasibility studies and preliminary
engineering needed to prepare the twelve pre-selected projects for
appraisal, and the final engineering design and bidding documents necessary
to get some of the projects ready for construction, make up the largest
component of the proposed project. This work would be conducted by private



- 18 -
consulting firms in six states of the northeast region and would include
different levels of surveys, studies, and engineering design. Six of the
projects to be prepared are situated in the State of Bahia, two in the
State of Ceara (one of them being Jaguariba-Apodi), and one each in
Pernambuco, Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Norte (Piranhas-Acu), and Piaui.
CODEVASF would be the executing agency for the work oTn six projects and
DNOCS for the preparation of four projects, while DNOS would handle the
remaining two.
59.       The twelve pre-selected public irrigation projects are the
mainstay of the Irrigation Program for the Northeast. They are of high
priority and represent about 75% of the area to be put under irrigation in
the medium term. Most of these projects would take three years to prepare,
but some would be ready for appraisal in twc years or even earlier. The
review of the available material and the basic work, including aerial
photography, cadastral surveys, soil surveys and land classification for
irrigation, would be put in hand first and completed by the end of December
1987. Feasibility studies and preliminary engineering designs would be
started in the course of the first year; their conclusions would be
reviewed and approved by the Executive Secretariat and the Bank. Final
engineering and the preparation of specifications would be carried out
thereafter. The sites being surveyed for future execution of the
pre-selected projects would vary from 3,600 ha. to 75,000 ha and the cost
of preparation of a single project would vary from US$400,000 to US$7.5
million, depending on the area to be irrigated, the nature of civil works
and equipment, and the availability and quality of surveys, studies and
designs already carried out. These costs are consistent with well
established engineering practice, namely, about US$80 per ha. for
feasibility studies and about US$100 per ha. for detailed engineering
design and preparation of bidding doccuments.
60.       The surveys and feasibility studies would cover a total area of
about 500,000 ha. and detailed engineering an area of over 300,000 ha.
Land ownership in the total area is preponderantly private, although some
land is owned by the States. Much of the land is used for extensive
grazing. Some of the privately owned holdings have been expropriated
already and all of them will be expropriated before any of the irrigation
projects prepared under the proposed loan are carried out, with 80% of the
land being allotted to small farmers and the remainder leased on long-term
in medium-sized lots. The distribution of most of the expropriated land in
owner-operated family-size units to landless farmers reflects the policy
adopted by the Goverrment. Depending on potential market outlets, future
production on irrigated farms would consist mainly of such food crops as
beans, maize, rice, grain sorghum and potatoes, and of industrial crops
like cotton, soybeans and groundnuts; and, to a lesser extent, of fresh
fruit and vegetables, and of milk or meat.
61.       The third component of the proposed project would be the final
engineering and construction of pilot schemes to test the potential for
irrigated agriculture on the plateaux of Jaguaribe-Apodi and Piranhas-Acu,
compare alternative systems of water command and control, and gain the
experience that would affect the redistribution of land on the plateaux.
It would also include settlement training and production support for small
farmers, who will be allotted family plots on the irrigated land.



- 19 -
Preliminary studies for this component have been completed and consultants
are being retained to proceed with detailed design. The component would
require a four-year period of execution, if useful lessons are to be
learned for the carrying out of future irrigation projects. The main
purpose of the two pilot schemes of about 1,000   ha. each would be to
study the different approaches to large-scale irrigation development on
75,000 ha. in the DNOS area and on 25,000 ha. in the DNOCS area,
respectively, using local water resources. Both schemes would provide
water for four irrigation blocks of 256 ha. each. The main elements of
irrigation works would be the headworks, a distribution network supplying
water to the individual blocks, and an irrigation network within each
block. One of the four blocks of each pilot scheme would be reserved for
agricultural research, training and extension, and for seed production.The
remaining three would be used to test, respectively, settlement on 4 ha.
family plots, leasing medium-size units to small enterprise, and leasing
the entire block to an agro-industrial company. In addition to irrigation
works, the pilot schemes would include surface drainage, land clearing,
access roads and some infrastructure.
62.       The purpose of the institution building component of the proposed
project would be to strengthen the Government agencies and departments in
charge of irrigation,and develop a permanent mechanism for sector planning
and for identification and preparation of specific projects. The component
would include technical assistance to the Executive Secretariat, CODEVASF,
DNOCS and DNOS, training for their respective staffs, ci'7il works and
equipment for SUDENE's training center (CETREN), a microcomputer to
modernize CODEVASF's accounting systems and project supervision, and
terminals to improve data processing in DNOCS Hydrology Division. In the
case of CODEVASF, these activities would supplement the institution
building measures to be financed under the proposed loan for the Upper and
Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project.
63.       There is evidence that professional, technical and administrative
shortcomings would hamper CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS in carrying out the
proposed project. To help remedy this situation, 24 man/months of
technical assistance would be provided under the proposed project to
upgrade management skills and arrive at a smooth and efficient
decision-making process. In addition, 240 man/months of resident expertise
would be supplied to the Executive Secretariat, CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS as
and when required. The retained experts would be specialized, inter-alia,
in planning, design, agricultural economics, hydrology and geology.
64.       Missing or inadequate skills in numerous disciplines, including
sector planning, and identification and preparation of projects, would be
addressed by way of in-service training and more formal training courses of
a duration of 1 to 12 weeks for 250 professionals at headquarters and in
the field, and for all clerical staff. A staff training program would be
prepared and furnished to the Bank by the Executive Secretariat not later
than September 30, 1986 and annually thereafter. Building repairs and
expansion, and the re-equipment of CETREN to raise its capacity to about
100 trainees at any one time, appears to be the most cost-effective
solution for accommodating the multiple training activities for the staff
of the agencies and departments involved in the implementation of the
proposed project.



- 20 -
65.       The last component of the proposed project would involve the
preparation of guidelines, which would enable the Federal Government and
several State agencies to ensure the safety of small dams (i.e. dams not
higher than 10 meters above the stream bed) throughout the Northeast, thus
preventing their washing out during heavy rains. These guidelines would be
presented to the Bank for review before being put into effect and not later
than December 31, 1987.
66.       The proposed project, as described above, would call for an
estimated 800 man/months of foreign consulting services and 6,000
man/months of services of local consultants. Foreign consultants, who
would be mostly of a senior level, would work primarily on feasibility
studies and on sector studies. Their employment in detailed engineering
design would be limited.
Environmental Impact
67.       The stud,.s dealing with the improvement and expansion of private
irrigation schemes (para. 57 above) and the feasibility studies for public
irrigation projects (para. 58 above) would assess the environmental effects
of their future construction and operation. In that assessment, special
attention would be given to the pollution of water with agro-chemic.als,
channel erosion and siltation, the risk of water logging, poor drainage and
salinization, and the control of waterborne diseases. Conservation of
watersheds through reforestation, and the possible use of water facilities
for fishing and for recreation, would also be taken into account.
Cost and Financing
68.       The cost of the proposed project has been estimated at US$107.7
million, including local taxes equivalent to about US$11.7 million. The
direct and indirect foreign exchange component of the total cost amounts to
US$36.1 million, or about 34 percent; the local cost component is
equivalent to US$71.6 million, or about 66 percent. A breakdown of the
estimated cost is shown in the Loan and Project Summary. Baseline costs
reflect prices in October, 1985.  Physical contingencies were calculated at
15 percent. Price contingencies were calculated in terms of US dollars
based on international inflation rates estimated at 7 percent for 1986 and
1987, and at 7.5 percent for 1988.  It was assumed that periodic local
currency devaluations, estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would
compensate for the difference between projected US dollar inflation and
local inflation rates.
69.       The proposed loan of US$48 million equivalent would meet 50
percent of the estimated project cost, excluding taxes.  The Bank would
finance the entire direct and indirect foreign exchange cost and
approximately 17 percent of the local cost. The remainder of the local
cost would be provided by the Federal Government. The proposed Bank share
is in line with the policy concerning socially-oriented projec1s in the
northeast region. The proposed loan would have a life of 15 yee:rs,
including a three-year grace period. It would be made to the Federative
Republic of Brazil, which would assume the foreign exchange risk. As a
condition for making the proposed loan effective, the Government would
furnish to the Bank evidence that its contribution to expenditures on the
project in the first year of execution has been included in the Federal



- 21 -
budget being revised at present in the context of the Government's
stabilization program and currency reform (para. 14 above). Part of the
proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to CODEVASF, DNOCS,
DNOS and SUDENE in accordance with the agreements referred to in paras. 71
and 75 below.
The Agencies in Charge
70.       On behalf of the Federal Government, the Executive Secretariat
assisting and advising the new Minister for Irrigation Affairs (para. 48
above) would coordinate and supervise the work of the other executing
agencies. Several ranking members of the Secretariat are experienced and
competent officials well known to the Bank. Moreover, the Bank has been
associated for well over a decade with some of the other executing
agencies. Institution building measures have been a feature of several
Bank loans for irrigation, rural development and other agricultural
projects. Nevertheless, CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS are still in need of
specialized assistance in the managerial, technical and administrative
spheres, in order to carry out a complex program of studies and engineering
diligently and efficiently, and to develop the capacity for independent
sector planning and project preparation.
Project Execution
71.       The proposed project would be carried out in four years and
should be completed by December 31, 1989. The preparation of the specific
irrigation projects would be done by private consulting firms retained by
CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS. In addition to coordinating and supervising the
execution of the proposed project through the Executive Secretariat for
the National Irrigation Program, the Federal Government would be
responsible for the sector studies conducted by private consultants, for
the preparation of safety guidelines for small dams, and - with some
assistance by SUDENE - for the institution building component. It has
agreed to introduce procedures for the use of consultants which are
consistent with the Bank's guidelines, and to establish, and apply,
technical standards for the different levels of surveys and studies.
CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS had prepared terms of reference and invitations to
consultants to submit proposals for each study, which have been presented
to the Bank for approval. Signature of an -Implementation Agreement",
satisfactory to the Bank, between the Federal Goverument on one part, and
CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS on the other, setting forth their respective
responsibilities, would be an additional condition for making the proposed
loan effective.
72.       To avoid delays, some sector studies, aerial mapping, soil
surveys and technical assistance activities were started after the
appraisal of the proposed project and in the susbequent months.
Consequently, retroactive financing not exceeding US$2.4 million equivalent
would be allowed for this purpose; expenditures incurred prior to
October 1, 1985 would not be eligible.
73.       During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it,
and the executing agencies, would keep separate accounts for the proposed
project and that these accounts would be audited in accordance with sound
auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The



- 22 -
audit would cover all statements of expenditure, including those presented
to the Central Bank with applications for withdrawal from the Special
Account (para. 76 below). Audit reports would be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Procurement and Disbursement
74.       Sector studies, and feasibility studies and detailed engineering
for specific irrigation projects, estimated to cost US$4.8 million and
US$52.6 million, respectively, would be carried out by consulting firms
selected according to Bank guidelines. Civil works and equipment for pilot
schemes would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
following Bank guidelines. Technical assistance and training, estimated to
cost US$5.9 million, would be provided under agreements with specialized
organizations or experts acceptable to the Bank.  All civil works contracts
over US$1.0 million, and contracts for equipment over US$200,000 would be
subject to prior review by the Bank of bidding documents, tender evaluation
and award proposals. Other contracts would be subject to selective
post-award review.
75.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed at the rate
of 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 30 percent of local expenditures
for consultants' services and for goods; and at the rate of 50 percent and
30 percent of total expenditures, respectively, for training and civil
works.   Disbursement of loan proceeds for the rehabilitation of CETREN
would hinge on the signing of an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
between the Federal Government and SUDENE. The Closing Date would be June
30, 1990. The projected disbursement period of four years, is commensurate
with the nature of the irrigation projects to be prepared for appraisal and
construction, and with the nature of investment in the pilot schemes. No
regional disbursement profile is available for this type of engineering
loan, but the projected disbursement period is consistent with experience
with engineering loans generally.
76.       Disbursement for eligible expenditures under contracts of up to
US$200,000 would be made against statements of expenditure certified by the
Government. Supporting documents would not be submitted to the Bank but
would be made available during project supervision. Standard documentation
for eligible expenditures over US$200,000 would be submitted to the Bank.
In order to reduce the Govexnment's prefinancing requirements, a Special
Account would be opened at the Central Bank of Brazil, where the Bank would
- at the Government's request - make an initial deposit of up to US$4.0
million. Withdrawals in cruzados from the Special Account, supported by
statements of expenditure and other required documentation, would be made
at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date of expenditure. The
Central Bank would send the corresponding withdrawal applications to the
Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account.
Benefits and Risks
77.       By means of preparing irrigation projects for appraisal and
construction thoroughly and competently, the proposed project would make it
possible for the Federal Government to put in hand a number of
important irrigation works for the Northeast. These works, which would
primarily benefit small farmers, should be instrumental in raising rural



- 23 -
incomes and increasing farm output by making the Northeast less vulnerable
to periodic drought and erratic rainfall. The proposed project should
further strengthen the management and enhance the professional skills of
the staff of the Government entities in charge of irrigation.
78.       The proposed project does not involve any special risks.  The
strong support lent to irrigation development in the Northeast by the
Federal Government at the highest level should ensure the adequate and
timely provision of local funds for project execution. As the term of
office of the new Minister for Irrigation Affairs expires in three years
(the same being true ef the Executive Secretariat assisting and advising
him), and the execution of the proposed project is expected to last four
years, the draft Loan Agreement provides for two additional events of
suspension, namely, that the Borrower shall have (i) failed to designate a
successor to the Executive Secretariat satisfactory to the Bank, for
purposes of carrying out the project; and (il) modified the legislation
establishing such successor. Satisfactory quality of consulting services
appears Lo be assured, owing to selection procedures which follow Bank
guidelines. In coordinating and supervising the execution of the project,
the Government would be assisted by outside experts and this should warrant
smooth and efficient progress.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 1, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-24-                                           Page I of 7
BRAZIL                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SlEET
RRAZIL                              BcEPRZENLE COrIPs (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) In
HOST                ptMDSTIUE  ESTUWATET) lb
RGNT          NICOLE INCOM           MIDDLE INCoIS
i96dkb    19701tb    ESTINATL/ b    LAT. AeRLICA A CAR          EUROPE
ARE  (TNIIUAND 30. R)
ToTAL                             8512.0      6512.0      8512.0
AICULTURAL                        1636.4      1991.2      2352.7
C0  PEE CAPITA 03S$)                 330.0        600.0     2240.0            21019.6                  2345.3
MERY WCONSMPTIO PEt CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)     264.0        412.0       740.0            ns.s5                   122.6
FrULATIOT   AMD VITAL SETISTICS
PoPULATLON.MLD-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  72594.0     95647.0   126806.0
UREAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)      44.9         55.8       68.3              66.5                     66.8
PUPULATION PRECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAk 2000 (HILL)                           131.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                             303.6
POPULATION IHENTrLI                                        1.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. Km.                       8.5         11.3        14.b             35.7                     82.9
PER SQ. NM. AGRI. LAND           44.4         48.4       52.7              9Z.4                    158.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                        43.6         42.7        40.9             39.9                     31.b
15-64 YRS                        53.8         54.3       55.6              56.0                    61.1
65 AND ABOVE                      2.6          3.1        3.5               4.3                      7.1
POPULATION GkWRT RATE (2)
TOTAL                             3.1          2.6        2.3               2.4                      1.6
URAN                              5.7          5.0        4.L               3.6                      3.7
CKUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)       42.7         35.0        31.2             31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        12.9        10.3        8.1               8.1                      s.8
CROSS REPR;.IUCTlON RATE            3.0          2.4         1.9              2.0                      1.6
FANILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TRDUS)           ..       111.0       203.6 Ic
USERS CZ OF HARRIED WOMEN)         ..           ..         ..              40.3
FOOD AND SIUITION
INDEX OF FOOD FROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      89.0        102.0       133.0            114.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)    106.0        104.0       107.0            110.6                    125.6
PROTelIS (GUNS PER DAY)          64.0         62.0       60.0             67.3                     89.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      35.0         34.0       36.0 Id           34.1                     34.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        19.4         12.5        8.0               5.7                      5.2
REAL71
LIFE EXECT. AT 11RrH (YEARS)       54.7         58.9       63.8              647                     67.4
INFANT KURT. RATE (PER THOUS)     118.2        98.6        73.4             60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (IPOP)
TOTAL                               ..        55.0       77.1 le           65.4
URa                                ..         78.0        8.87;            76.1 
RURAL                              ..         28.0       56.8 4. 46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(x OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         58.0       64.8 Ie           52.9
URBAN                              ..         85.0       63.7 7r           67.0
RURAL                              ..         24.0       31.7 7r           24.5                       -
POPULATION PEa PHYSICIAN         2210.0       2130.0         ..            1937.7                   1065.6
POP. PER NURSINc PERSON          2810.0       1120.0         ..            815.6                    72.44
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            310.0       270.0       250.0 /e         367.2                    326.3
URBAN                           250.0        320.0         ..             411.5                    201.5
RURAL                              ..           ..         ..            2636.3
ADMtSSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          ..         18.4         ..              27.3                     20.0
NOISINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.1          4.8        4.9 Ie
URAN                               ..          4.6        4.7 7r
RUIIAL                             ..          5.2         5.3 7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROOM
TOTAL                              ..          1.1
URBAN                              ..          1.0
RURAL                              -.          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF WELLINGS)
TOTAL                            35.7         47.6       67.4
UR                                 ..         75.6       69.5
RURlz.                             ..          9.4       20.6



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of J
-astL  otUT   mIT
Km                  (MM    SN  &STINAT) lb
~~..a  ~      ~ CIN            KinDDi lEONE           KZO0LzTUCONI
190A      1970ik    U       Ti~d   LAT. UCI    A CAR            lftlPE
ADJUStD EIOUMUST RATIO
nDEARU   TOML                    95.0          4.0       93.0             105.4                    101.1
PAIZ                   97.0        84.:        93.0 L10.3                                105.5
TAL                    93.0        34.0        93.0            104.5                      96.7
SIECOIIDAIt TOTAL                11.0        26.6        32.0 a            *4.2                     59.1
MALB                   11.0        26.0        29.0 7           42.3                     68.9
tu"=                   10.0        27.0        35.0             4.5                      50.6
VOCATIOML (2 01F UEcONMZT)         16.          16.7       59.2 /b           33.6                     21.6
PUL-UlACU DATI
nDan                             33.0        20.0        26.0              30.1                     23.1
UECOUDET                         13.0         13.0       14.0              16.5                     20.5
ADLT LITOACt I=  CX)               61.0         662        76.0 It           79.5                     75.6
1AI6EJ CAUSS 0EWMA  11 PP           7.6         16.6       46.9              41.0                     54.7
3*110=9EIVUSJTIOUU     Po          65.4        106.4      165.1             225.6                    164.9
TV 3c a/musuc Par                  16.5         44.3      119.7             107.2                    123.6
NUSPAPU ("DAIU  0UE3SI
INTSUIT') CIxCULAOK
P  TUOUAD POPULATI               52.9         35.6       44.0       /h 43.5                         96.3
I     N UAL ATTZ CIMCE/CAPrT       4*1         2.0         1.6 ti            2.6                      2.9
TOTAL iAJOR  101OC  (tD0)       23326.0      30411.0    40365.0
131. C13T)                       17.2         20.1       23.2              23.2                     34.5
AMXCULTU  (PERCENT)              51. 9        45.6       29.9              31.5                     40.7
INDUSZKY (PERCE)                 14.6         16.3       24.4              23.9                     23.3
PA*XCIPATZOI NM  (FIRCENT)
TOtAL                            32.1         31.7       31.6              32.2                     42.9
AIZ                              52.7         50.3       48.9              49.3                     54.7
1Z3ALC                           11.2         12.        14.6              15.2                     31.0
RCONOIlC  _ YUCT RATIO              1.4          1.4        1.4               1.4                      0.9
im   -
Rican S! Or WIDUNBOUDS
IClU3T 201 0r  IW O              60.0         63.5       62.0                ..
10UNOS 200 Or NOUWEWM             3.6          3.2        2.6                ..
LOWE" 402 Or 16U01z6             10.6         9.0         9.4                .
020I!E  A310L55 POVERTY INCCm
LvEL  US  U CAPITA)
UNDI                               ..           ..         ..             2U6.2                       .
RURAL                              ..           ..      150.0 /d          14.0
ESTDtATE  RZATZTE POMRTT IK
LEmL (US P  CAPITA
Ulm                                ..           ..      465.0 id          522.8
RURAL                              ..           ..      332.0 Id          372.4
ZSTD   POP. BE0OW AUSOL
VSZ DIcONa LEVL (X)
ma                        ........
RRAL                               ..
. YO AVAILANE
NMT APFLXCA=L
NOS CAUZ~~NTE
11 O T L S
/       a  rup goaverag  for each ndicator ane populEnlo-we.htad erithetl_c _se. Coerage of countriea aong the
ndicators depend. on avalability of dta ands   not uform
U UeS atherule  noted.  netot for 1960" refer to my year between 1959 and 1961; bte faor 1970" betwen 1969 end
1971; and data for 'Mbot _rent Istl:mte betwee  196 and 1962.
a         L 977; / 1976; I1979; UL  enin  1973 primny  nd secondary edwation coper *g groups 7-14 and 15-17
otef 7-1and 11-1 In arlier years; tberefore. at recet satintee ere not coarable witb  earller data;
A 1976.
JUE 1964



-26-                                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notw: Although thedata aredrawn from sourcs generalyjuded themot tauthoritativeand reliable, it sud alo be noted that they may not be internutionally
comparble because of the lack of sandardized definitions and concpts used by diffreent countrim in colklting the data. The data arc, nonethes umerl to
decribe orden of magntude indicate tredKI and chacerize ertain major diffenc between countries
The rerenmc groups are (I) the Same country group of the aubjet country and (2) . country group with somewhat higher aveage income than the country
group of the sublet country (except for -High Income Oil Exporte group whee "Midde Inoxme North Africa and Middle Ear is chosen because of stronger
socio-cultural alfinities). In the refeence grup data the avrg amre popuation wveghted arithmetic moans ror each indicator and hown only when majority
afthe countries in a group has data for that indicator Since the coverage ofcountries among the indicators depernd on the avaiabilty ofdata and is not uniform,
caution must be exercised in reating averags ofone indicator to another Thee avrage are only useful in compring the value ofone indicator at a tine among
the country and reference groups. 
AREA (thousand sq.kmin)                                         Crud NinA Rite (perthorsand)-Numberoflive births in the year
Feral-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of nid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crude Deah RAte (per thouawd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricafrural-Estirnate Of agricultural area used temporarily or  per thousand of mnid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Repredutiea Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960,1970, and 1983.
market prics, calculated by sa(m conversion method as World     Famly PlAnig-Acceptors. Annual (houandrs)-Annual num-
Rank Atlas (I1981-83 basis):. 1983 data.                        ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,     Fassly Planning-Vserts (percen of married -Wnen)-The peren-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49, although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measund for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total Popltiem, Mid-Year (shousant)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Urban Ppuation (percet of totalJ-Ratio of urban to total        Index ofaFeed Production Per Capita(1969-71=  I - indx xofpcr
Poplaion dffentdefinitions of urban areas may afetcopr     capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different countio   of     1970n and may   ata.     excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countnies. 1960.1970, and 1983 data.inldprmyco oite(egsgaceisedofua)
-            '    '                          m~~~~~~~~~~~~icludc primary commnodities (e.g& sugarcanc instcad Of sugar)
Popuatio  Rejectio                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tca are
Population in year 2000-Thc projection or population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  ivestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on riational average producer price weights; 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis or generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             PerCpitaSupplyofCatories(percenofrequire-  J-Comput-
Stationary populatior-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies a ......-.e in country
tatity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacnment level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net suppies
(net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normnal activity
size was estimated on the basis or the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level                                       waste at household level; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenntu-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Cpta Sppy of Protein (grams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has DoM  percapita net supply of food per day. Nct supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultinate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment klvel from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Poptimi  Densiy                                                 averagc for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                Per Capita  weein Supply From Anhna and PM-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pules in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970, and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Popuaion Age Struture (percent)l-Children (0-14 years). work-   Child (ages 14) Death Rate (per thousand)-N umber of deaths of
ingage (15-64years).and rtired(65 years-and over)as percentagc  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
or mid-year population: 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a givcn year. For most developing countries data derived
Pbpultion Greoth Rate (percentj-sotal-Annual growth rates of    from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Popuamtion Growth Rate (percent)-whan-Annual growth rates       Li Expectray at Birth (yers)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNME I
-27-                                       Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to stay the suae throughout its lire.  Paplt-eachr Retio - priMary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
lnfant Mnetiay Rate (per shnsand)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPIION
Access to Sife Water (pecmt ef popadtion)-4t, _ rba, ad        Pasqer Caus (per thoad pepidshd)-Passenger cars com-
r=Wa-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ancets hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaiinated water such as that from protected  Raio Recivers (pr * ndpq pa on)-All types of receivers
borholes, springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their espec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excudes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
loated not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  rcgistmtionofradio  waw in effct; dtrecent years  may
as beng within reasonable access of that house. In rural araei not br comp radb since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access wouJ imnply that the housewife or members of the
housedhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRecelers (per thosusnd popsltatk-TV reervers for broadcast
in fetching the famifils water needs.                          to generl public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
Access to Excreta Disposal (percent of populatonl-toral, mbx,  receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
in effect.
ad rural-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) served by  mW
cxcreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  wspaper CGadon (per tsad sSpopulan bhows the aver-
Excreta disposal muy include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of 'daily general interest newspaper. defined as a
without treatment. af human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general newst
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Populeatioper Physias-opulation divided by number of pinc-     Cinem  Auna Andance per Capita per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Ptp.lian  per Nursing Pesn-Pbpulation divided by number of     drive-n cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses,' assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Pwt'11   per Hospital  rd-toa4 urban, and woL-Population       Total Labor Force f(rhusnss--Economically active persons, in-
(total. urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  dluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private,  genawl and speciaEled s tudents, etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  vanous countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
peanentdy staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femak (perentl-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricakwe (percentl-Labor force in rarming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, mnidwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force, 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Industy (perceart)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adnixsiou per Hospietl Bed-Total number of admnissions to or   facturingand electricity. waterand gas as percentageof total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force, 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pawiciparo Rate (percxtr)-rt, malk, andfemaL-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
Avera g we of Househld (pers  per ho.ehhW)-tol, -bmn           as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
aurarafl-A household consists ofagroup of individuals who share  respectively, 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
mnay not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Aveae Number of Persons per Roomn-total auban, ad rural-       Economc Dependency Rato-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellinEs. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pecetage of DueNags with Eectricity-rtral urba, ad rural-      Percentage of Total Disposable me (both in cash ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to prcentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4usted Enroment Ratios                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prinary school - total. male and ferale-Gross total. male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of aDl ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimted Ahbsote Poverty Incoe Levd (USS per capita fr-urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rua--Absolute poverty incomc level is that income lcvel
consider prinary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For sorme countries with universal  Esimated Relative Pvety oni Levwe (USS per capita)--urban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ad rua-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-chool  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age-                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondy school - roal. male andfemal-Computed as abovc;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pr-  Esimated Popuaio Below Absoblte Poverry Income Level (per-
mary instruction; provides geneaL vocationaL or teacher training  cse)-urban md rur- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usuaDly of 12 to 17 years of agc correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are generaly exduded.
Vocational Enrollmeni (percent of secondery)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industriaL or other programns which operate   Econonic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



mI
rIs S f 7
L -  8:  -S
PqmaIaLm       t129.7 dI1li  (ald-1983)
GN Far  uptt: 1UI M30 (1953)
assj~f t                                                         hrn   ~I lati 
0wct Prim
Indicator                    (1984)                              Actual                                                        Projected
1975     1980     1961      1962       1983     19tLf          1911       E   19U6  3        1966      1989       1990
latiurl  cmt
_a mticP W-il3               212,300          5.6      7.2    -1.6        0.9       -3.2      4.5            8.3       6.2       7.0       7.0        7.0       7.0
Ip1azlotu~                   24.2S           L7       6.2      6.4      -2.5        2.2      4.3            8.        2.0       4.5        6.5       4.5       4.5
liutry                        2,7M2          5.3      7.9     -L2        0.8       -6.8      5.9            9.0       8.0       8.5       8.5        8.5       8.5
S Ai                        103.825         10.3      7.3    *4.1        1.7       -1.5      3.0            7.8       6.0       6.5       6.5        6.5       6.5
amu-dm                        165.571          L4       3.5      0.2       3.3       -2L0      0.6            8.3       4.7       52        6.5       6.3        6.1
Cz,           __b              34,817        -7.0      1L2   -15.9        -4.2      -37.5      1.0           I.2      2A.9        IL3       32.0      11.8      11.6
bzqio   of OWS                 D.399          12.4     22.7     20.9      -8.4       13.6     21.9           -3.2      -1.0       5..       3.4        2.3       5.3
I ta of OIFS                   1,7865        -9.6       1.8   -334        -5.2      -17.2     4.5            -3.2      2L0        1.5       10.7      8.1       9.7
Ccm   ti1  sa1mS               23.818         4.4      11.6    -16.6    -10.6        -34      Z.6            11.7  25L3           15.0      11.3      11.1      32.6
MP rt   w (1910.100)                         35       2,955    5.66    11.4B0      M2U1   90.561
ZEh     Rate C-01M.crS)                        8.1     5L7      93.1     179.5      577.0  I.*,.9
IuaoE OP at   I -ram _ 1) CQ                              I       Amalooma  CZ)
(At Ozw&t Picm)                                      (At  Qwit  1984 krim)
1915      1986      195S/d    1990/C                        1975480   l96D045   19859
GruDa   estic Frahct                   L0O      1O.0       O  100.0  100.0                          6.5       0.8       6.8
Agrdttg                              9.2       11.0      11.S      10.1                           9.5       2.2       4.1
Izu&trY                             31.1       3.8      29J       3Z.1                            4.6      .0.3       8.4
swim                                43.6       4.8      68.       47.8                            7.8       1.3   8 A
Qtbm                                  76.6      81.3      78.0      74.3                            7.7      -1.8       5a
0   Ijnlbmb                           27.3      21.1       17.0     2L.0                            2.8      -4.2      13.7
19orrs 05                              7.5       8A       ILS        10.4                           6.4      14.5       3.2
4qota 055                             3L4       11.2       7.4       8.7                           -1.3      -1A.       9.3
C-am Nariml Savq                      22.1       16.1      1.1 Zl     .                            -1.6      -4.5      13
Anf Z of CP
(At 0mwt C           PriB)
P,g i. F72mm  (Gml   e )                                  1910     1975    1979   1980/x  19811   1987/'
o       lamm                                              16.6     19.8    20.8    20.1    18.9    21.2
Ornut   lte                                               14.4     15.8    17.6    19.8    20.2    2S5
S=plA (+) or   tc(-)                                      2.2      4.0      3.2     0.3    -LI    -4.2
Cttal E     itM                                           2.6      3.8      3.7     4.1     3.5      3.4
PFiz_ Cl t)                                               0.4    -0.2       0.5     3.9     4.9      7.6
Oder 1nmtm                        197540  19B6D.5 198540
OM Qidh Rate (Z)                    7.0      0.5     7.3
ON Par Grdta (kith  Rate CZ)        3.0     -1.9     5.0
&        WutmGrwdr Rare (2)    6.5           -       -
mI                                  3.3     20.7     3.0
tlSqiz    SwiA                      0.0      0.5     0.4
Iot   E1sLdZy                     -02       -2.4     1.4
/  At Raa pri                 m       d        at fawl =t    alsto fne t    d  to arCusura   Mt   Iu"-%=ctwas  r'diss.
7 197580  itimm ame for g           itm               for s*ns_ct       - a   fo, flmd k    . ad. din   tI stnf  incirnin <Aqucm
Tc P       dmjet. yam at  t-t-t    m.
i iitn uy.
F    tiwe.
7Tf  1e960-2 t _inc_   .      uqitzm       cted dma        the    azy bA*m  ad at.mr          8w*. o lUn  o r         te the federal  ttheEpm.
Ihrd 21.1916



wI
*UZIL-N. it. 
Amt
MSe ulni  at                          _m                            1t RM ) - (at    tw   197          )Ld
-t Prim
Indiestor                     (1966)                               Actual                                                      Projectod
1975     1960     1981       1982       1963     18         my85!    19%6       1967       19U       1969      1960
1brdudi. tma                    27D,OM          23.9     21.2      9.9       -3.0       2.5      21.1         2.6      -1.0       5.4        3.4       L3       5.3
kl                             10.357          30J      2.4      46.8      -0.1        14.3      3.8        24.5      -3.4       8.2        3.6       3.6      3.6
I Funt.cta~./b                 16.648           0.0     2L5      40.6        7.4       43.5      21.3       15.5       0.7       3.6        3.2       1.5      6.6
jbrdiujm  m prtu                13.916         -15.0      1.6     -9.4      -20.3      -15.9    -22           4.8      22.0       1.5       10.7       6.1      9.7
F acd  9     r asr             1.53B           62      13.2    -548        -1.2        4.1     -L0          3.0     109.0     -43.6         2        7.7      6.7
1 _ttal                        6.866          -3.8     -9.8     -5.0       -2.6      -10.6    -13.7       -18.7      -2.3      11.3        6.6       2.8      9.9
Ihddn.y ad e*ipt               2.151           9.       6.4     -6.9      -32.2      -13.0      84         18.5      37.3      16.4       15.6      14.2      11.6
Oth                            3.361         -30.6     -2.2       3.8     -ZL3       -20.3      20.9       -9.0      3.0        10.9      10.1       9.4      8.6
Prim
alt Pfr1 Iid                                      89      147       124        114        97      I1          97        105       108        116       127       139
lpwot Prilmld                                    71       125       136        152       143      I1O         99         96        98        1OS       112      120
a  of tT e                                       125      118        93         75        68      I0         96        112       110        111       113       116
~aiwtim at )brudwim. Timb CZ)                                Aven    Alml 1nameme CZ)
(at azrt PMM)                                          (at amtat 1970 pdr)/d
1975       1960      1985      1990                          1975480   196045   179659
E--O 10.0                                        1D.0      10D.0      100.0                           5.8       11.0       3.2
ft"Exxt                              62.7        4.8      41.2      61.2                            1.1        6         3.6
N.ufactumu/b                         37.3       55.2 Z    S.8        98.8                           14.2 /    23.2       3.0
Imqorts                              M100        10D.0     10o.O      1o                             -1.4      -2.7       1L0
Fod and tmr Com                       9.8       11.1      12.0      1O.8                           17.5     - 45         7.9
-'.m                                 25.4       64.4      62.1      3165                            4.3      -7.3        6.4
; ddzy ud  Epm=                      26.5       15.4      19.2      2L3                            -7.5      -3.4       18.2
Othr                                 3B.3       29.1      26.7      21.4                           -1.9      -3.1        9.9
SINCE of a      wth    Q         m   oF t e idth       9         af   trmh ith m11
UdAcu)1 Cctmrm  CZ)            Ihwift cr_   (Z)              acdrg CCmtdin ()
Tueailm   aE Tzmde                 1975     mUu    1963            1975     1960    1983         1975     1960    1983
70.2     57.3    S.7           23.5     2.5    23.9           2.8     10.1     8.8
Imct                             67.3      41.8    37.1          8.7      15.8    17.7        21.1      41.1    41.6
/a Fot tie  ss 18-1960, Prlmny Pructs. Sirlul.1 om.gd tn    ois oce
lb PFr tic       IW5-19-960. mftm           -tlu  oclw RDh.
/l- PZElJmiuw7
Td Pojected Is        d          m * t 1966    .
Srh21. 19a6



-  0-
ALANCE OP MYSUrrO. EIENAL CAPt "  AN1  NW
Uh6 Milltosm at CeBrrut Prig,.)
gUl8emitons       82N.7 million (sId-19i1)
ClIP Fur CopItet UNI3*60 (199)
-lstwd-                                                                  r       1        s      -
1s9s       1mo0        3963       1962        392        1964        36s L     366           967        196        3s96        1990
Net  mpart. of oeds end *ervice        -0,702    -12.5k    -33.292    -14.747         -6.250         345   -I99          -1.1,1       -170       8,038     -3,461        -671
Exprts Ot Omeda                       D,670      20,122      21,293     20,175      23,69      27,001      21.639     27,242      29,292      31,046     36,917      62.432
Isprtsm of   eds                     12.210      21,955     22,091      19,295     35,429      13,914      11,36     15,15       36,84U     19,014      22,06l      21,799
Met Factor Inca_                     -1,731      4621       -9,5112   -11,926    -10,111    -30,99        -113,40    -118II3    -11.265   -11,461    -12,003    -111311
(of which tnLtrTnt pas.L.          (2,.0)    (6.338)    (7.96)    (v. 326        (11.472)    (9".142   (9.2315      (5,14')    (9,032)    (9,279)    (, 599)   (9,156)
not 6m-FecLor SuTvIcaa               -1,429      -1,320     -2,663      -3,5*9      .247       -1.875      -1.319     -,729       -2.,17     -1,579      -.,296      -,3177
tL Tr fers                                  11        126         too        -10         306         172        I50           0          0           0           0          0
Currnt Aecaunt BlnCe                   -6u9       -32,416    -31,D0I    -13,757      -6,862          11        -349     -3,161        -706     -8,0        -3,443        -675
irect, Private eIusetmsL                  692       1,121      13,51         998         64        8,076        196         19l        679       1,063      3,247       1,429
HLLT Leans (no)                          4,630      4,.493      8,650      7.49        7,121      ,262         694       2,681      2.924       1,669      4.066       3,639
Cre  DtsburmeesuLs                   (6.962)   (11.333)   116.0653   (14,993)   (10,902)    36,096         30.651      36.358     16,226      17,121     86.26      17.660
Anerltsation                         (2.1521    (6.,203    (13953    (7,4627. )    (157)f    7.686          9.151      12.70    183102       11.452     84.06O      34.021
ruIlo    Abrad (N                        -190         -27       -921        -594         8Z2        634        D00      -8.400      -I8.61     -2,071      -2,30D    -2,670
OLWm  CaPItL1 (t4  1I.1mg  rr re
and _I-lo_n)                            -71       3.462       2.59      2.706      -1,993     -3.U62      -3.DI         539       -b96         666     -566        -410
Chunp In Eaer_a  t- ladlecles
Ineroew)                              1.226       2,389       -61        4,.151         24     -7.027        -437      -.74         -246        959        -"9      -1.246
I-srttenotea  Immerses 1.                5.719      6,912       7.505      1.250       3.757    131.39       12.42      11.201     13,554      14.534     81.t1    136,155
(ol whIch meld)                           36      1.143         903         65         207       n.e.        n.e.       -...        n.e.       n...        n...        n.e.
asrvwem, as  elsl.. of tperta (GrS)          3.3         3.0        3.3        13.         2.3         6.2        6.9         7.6        7.4         6.9         6.4        1.9
EutOrl CeIttal mad Dbt
Crosm Disbmrnsmts                       6.912      88,333      16.065     36.,03      10.902      16.096     30.653      16,352     86,226      17,122     16.26       17.660
of 1fId10 Grants .                        -                               -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -
Cenceanlanal Lom                         102         19          19       I3O         -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -
360                                    67AC*                   317       360       -           -           -          _           _           _          -           _
OGEc                                 -           -          -           -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -
IA                                   -           -          -           _           _          _           _          _           _          _
Other                                   LS          3           2       -          -           -           -          -           -          -           -           -
Now-Caaceaetamal la1es                6.610    13.294        16.026     36.603      30,696     36,096      10.653      16.152     16,226      17,122     1.63        17.660
OtfICIsl Zaport CruditA               311 3        12         uS         042       1.099      3.107       1,250       3,200      3.880       1.296      1.290       1.663
[NW                                   250         163        289         b23      1.204       1.294         790      8.409       1.720      1.819       3.650      3,611
OtLhr lIultilteral                    339         3g          39D        33          217        2U          15         232         256        101         371         421
PrIwato                             4.130      10,151     14,342      1.007      6.376      11.226      6.132      135311      13.050     13.167      14.627     12.721
ternal DObt
Debt DOtstnlqg  ed Dibh-u d          23,441      56.499      64.625     73.036      79,160     3.613       66.017     98.,9       94.621     91.291    102.159    105,996
ubtcisPuhtucry Curetd              33 1,649      ,6964 44,633         69.911     34,065      19.27      U.017      9,n69      94.623      90,291    102, 39    805.99
Priets  _me-Cearntamd               9.,92      .6601     19.792      23.123     21.512      19.226     n* -.c                  .          n.m        n.e          _-
Ondlabersed Debt                       2.763     11.026      12.,66    13.322       13.917     13.727      l3.304     14,931      15.432      I3.36      13.550      15.136
1I6 5D63M (23
11  dtebhresmctotl groem
dlhrsts                      1U.         3.2        2.4         4.2.      11.1         4.9        7.6         4.6        10.7       10.1        10.2       30.1
2311 DIOltotel  4M *.7                                3.7         3.6        3.7         4.6        6.5         4.6         3.7        6.7         7.6        8.2         6.7
IBM Oebt  ertcs/toeel debt Zranes         2.5         2.1         2.1        2.5         4.2        1D.         4.1         4.0        4.7         1.7        1.6         7.5
Toitl Servic  Paye     /b              3,670     13,363      13,331     16.825      82,206     20.976      19.071      21.416     22.335      22.732     22.659      23.571
ltrmrtfu                            1.436       6.221      7.,92       9,.31      7.672       9.,56      9.315       6.746       9.033      9.279       9,s5        9.516
TsYomt.nc-   Z tePortm  (Cr)              20.6      3S.3         60.6       71.7        46.0/f     72.2        69.2        73.1       70.0        61J.       59.1        51.7
Aw r_ Interoet oate  - 11
CsertAed Let Wa (2) /c                     8.7        12.?        15.3        12.7       11.4        11.9        9.8         9.6        9.2         9.2         9.2        9.0
Of fICdl                                  6.0         9.1        10.6       10.9        30.5       n.e.        .-.         .-.        n.e.        n.e.       n.e.        n.e.
PriveAte SOre                             6.9        IL*         14.3       13.1        11.0         _.           .        .-.        r.          n..        n..         .-.
Avrag  Maturity ef Ibu
earesteed Lease (tarm) ic                   9.0        9.7         9.7        0.9        9.3        9.6        10.1        11.6       33.6        33.5        11.1       13.1
Oftfidel                                  16.4       112.        32.6        13.1       12.9       n.m.        _*.         _*.        _*.         _*.        *.e.        *.-.
Privta Sttee                              6.9         6.9         9.0       10.2         6.4       n.          n.e.       n.          n.          n.-. *.-.              n.e.
A.   *2f DebtOtstndies
Nbttrity ltrutre oat PUbei Debt 0ttetAdti
Neturitlee dee within 3 years                                    64.
Fatritles  _e dthin 10 jers                                      95.
Sner_c Struct   at Debt awitae ostted
Isnarest  me withln te f*Irt eer                                -*-
fme uc   7 o i        meld _n  dellar sal_tim  sdjmet_nte.
IsTm      t ad *nrtietlan Mas edmm, -  leftI  trer  debt.
7-C  1tuc Dbt ely tsr 3975.
fi    t lliu,,
Intcernet mes, erdlsmeAiem ecesLaz pe1te.
e.cumdew only                                                                                                                                  larLftmlm sct-U7 Pddmbrch 21, 1966



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. aSUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1985)
Amotmt less   Undis-
Loan #   Year            Borrower                   Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Seventy eight loans fully disbursed                                  3,598.4
1317     1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry           83.0        25.3
1452     1977  Brazil                           Education               32.0         1.9
1488     1977  Brazil                           Rural Development       11.0         1.5
1537     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development       24.0        12.3
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  130.0        11.9
1557     1978  Brazil                           Roads                  114.0        12.6
1568     1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension       100.0         0.5
1589     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development       37.0        13.0
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water and Sewerage    100.0          2.7
1714     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       26.0        15.5
1720     1979  Brazil                           Urban Development       70.0        23.4
1721     1979  CDPEL                            Power                  109.0        23.0
1728     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       40.0        20.7
1729     1979  Brazil                           Irrigation              28.0         3.7
1730-5   1979  Brazil                           Roads                  110.0        10.7
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control       34.0        29.0
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           130.0         2.9
1839     1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport        159.0        32.1
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           139.0        30.6
1867     1980  Brazil                           Education               32.0        15.7
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development       63.0        48.5
1895     1980  ELEIROSUL                        Power                  125.0       86.1
1924     1981  Brazil                           Rural Development       56.0        18.2
1939     1981  ELETRDBRAS                       Power                   54.0        42.2
1965     1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport         90.0        52.6
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           180.0        94.8
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0         45.3
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agri-culture            29.0        15.0
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             60.0         9.7
2060     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             67.0        28.7
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                  13.0         6.0
2062     1982  Brazil                           Highways               240.0        63.2
2116     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture              26.4       12.7
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                   182.7      144.1
2163     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture              26.4       17.0
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development       123.9      103.5
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Development       42.7        29.7
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development        8.9         3.3
2196     1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore               304.5        83.3



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1985)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                    Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
2224     1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads           154.0      119.1
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           302.3      189.1
2268     1983  Brazil                           Agro-Industries        400.0      372.4
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Development       67.8       59.1
2343     1983  Brazil                           Urban Development       52.7       45.4
2347     1983  Brazil                           Export Development    352.0         0.8
2348     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture            303.0        2.0
2353     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             65.2       60.5
1729-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture              7.7        7.6
2060-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             22.8       22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  250.6      226.6
2365     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  222.8      155.7
2366     1983  Brazil                           Education               20.0       15.5
2412     1984  Brazil                           Education               40.0       33.7
2446     1984  Brazil                           Federal Highways       210.0      177.4
2447     1984  State of Sao Paulo               Health                  55.5       50.4
2448/1   1984  State of Sao Paulo               Health Studies           2.0        2.0
2488/T   1985  Brazil                           Development Barnking   300.0      300.0
2489     1985  Brazil                           Education               72.0       70.3
2523/1   1985  Brazil                           Rural Development       61.3       61.3
25247f   1985  Brazil                           Rural Development       61.4       61.4
2532/T   1985  Brazil                           Rural WS&S Pilot        16.3       16.3
25637T  1985  Brazil                            Railways               200.0      200.0
2564/7   1985  Eletrobras                       Power Transmission    400.0       400.0
2565/T   1985  Eletrobras                       Power Distribution    312.0       312.0
2593/T/3 1985  Brazil                           Land Tenure            100.0      100.0
2623/3   1985  State of Santa Catarina          Urban Development      24.5        24.5
Total                                               11,124.8 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 1,942.1
Total now outstanding                                9,182.7
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8            0.0
Total now held by Rank                               9,182.7
Total undisbursed                                                4,278.9
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
7T Not yet signed. (This Loan was signed on October 15, 1985)
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



ANNC It
Pqlp 3 of 3
11 SUUmW       I1C 7Jltl5 C t_  Sd tma ou  30. 19B5)
FISCal                                                                                                                     Amua in U59 aIfl
Yea i                                      b I I g a r                                 ri1 fbtz                         lam. 1ut ty    ToUl
1957                 Simm  dD lraU Cla. de Clectrldda                               Sletrical qipot                       2.00       -       LW
I955                OldLrft. S. A. Calulam * aPpl                                   Ibdp ad Paer                           1.20       -       1.20
195S                 D. L. L. PL _tia do rail. S. A.                                Atadti  Parts                          0.45       -       0.45
195                 IIlyrOc rld do rail. S A. - Itmifla a O_rxo                    Xbor ladem                              2.CS      -        L45
1959                 Omdda H1LmIra de Clmto 3bLlmd. S. A.                                                                  1.20       -       1.20
1959               Oaupim  Calulom_. S. A.                                          pap                                    4.0       -        4.00
196/1968/1972        Aa. VIlIlzcg. S. A.                                             teu1                                 8.00       1.93     9.93
1966/1969            Papl e Gaulfl O         .tint. S. A.                           Iubp  d Paper                          3.71      5.71     9.49
1967/1972            Ultrafertll. S. A. - Ilduarri a C.  vo do FeUrtilaa            FartilgzAr                            8.22       3.03    11.25
1969                FteLIqdm  Thino, S. A.                                          Fetrmduda1                             5.50      2.8S     5.39
1970                 PolIa1fi., S. JL Inditrla ae Co,wei                            Petrodudcaim                           5.50      2e88      .35
1971                Osiw. S. A. blihtrin a  rwdo                                    FeLrodicls                             4.60      1.64  6h.
1971                Rlo Crmde - 0,a d  de Calalom. do Sul                           Mul                                   4.90       -        4.90
i172/1975/1951   l     ida de Cito NacIrn de Mn m                                                                        169.14     6.70   175.58
19734/74M/815/83/8J    Ciuia sdou           do G,ubm - OEIO                         sti                                  76.97      15.27    92.24
1973                Capital MWkgtL Mv1qMU  Rid - RFWP                                apu t M7kt D)ervdqt                  5.00       -        5.00
39T/1970/19M3    e    a-sa de Denolvinto do Pawmm Nlwra - aMaN. S. A.   tfdml Tifd   ad ssbg                      m       55         8.74    93.74
1974                 _hxtrim VilMM. S. A.                                           CEamL   ad  rLuirial Eqdpnt           6.00       -        6.m
3974                 Fabric de Trado Tati pa. S. A.                                T11I                                   31.00      -       31.00
1975/1979            C4apua Caira, lumtra _Utt.                                     Ctrbw BladL                           6.3l       1.19     7.37
1975                Otdtew  loditea. S. A.                                         Fetrdimcals                            10.00      -       10.00
1976                Sanmt 3odotria - Tatil do fte,"t  S. A.                         W.1a                                  6.45       1.00     7.45
1976/1980           Teanor S. A. - Tamil  0atrinme do Noureke                      T etJlm                                16.20      -       16.20
1977               RF  S. A. PI&iri Ntta1rg3wa                                      Irmn ad Alad-- C.atap               270.00       -       7.00
1977                  tneraao RIo do NMrt S A.                                       t niz                                is1.       -       15.00
1978               COaeu uS1desogL   A.                                             Ion ad Steel                          8.38       3.00    11.3
1979                Volvo do rmall nTtom, e VeiaYl., S. A.                           tor vehidam                         60.00       5.2     65.27
1950                3frig do Ilortmte S. A. - ThIiu                                 lyde  Cmts                            2.00       -        2LCO
1950                 Dnde do Para S/A - 3    ^ _-m - Agriadtars, IAutria
e  mclo de Ole0 in_m                                        Palm-oil                               3.50      1.00     4.50
1950               VhIRM  11ahitrim do lae S. A. - VIIASI                           rn ad Stat                            5.00       -        5.00
1950                PIH - Ghia Irdiustrial de PbUEoilew                             Qadals ad PeLroda L.          o       15.00    2.00     170
19B0               Dkttinria Clm te S. A.                                          OhdmaU ad Petrodadrala                  -        0.25      0.25
3950                 -tave  Acis Qodaca e 1Mxral S/A                               Fertitara                              35.00     6.00    41.00
L.!0 Polelbd PetroqPOnicd                                                           Oampla ad _Ieru mial          o      43.00     S5        48.00
191ti               lrilc-                              toEY ad C1pil                                   a                  -         L50      1.50
'Al                 rApamdi 1knamleim d! Agropamria - COWM                         Fbad ad Foad Pwa-Ug                    5.50      3.0       8.50
1981                 Irlimfa                                                       OdCid  Mid Petrodudmla                46.00      4.00     50.0
1912                o,re  033                                                      CMIML and 0xutrOstiCn MhLadAl.        40.00       5.00    45.0
1952                Agrilasirg S. -                                                MnEp Capitl Nait                       311.00    0.45     WA4
1953                Ca RLgmdeue d& PA micrpd           (CP)           rM-  Caoptal 1kEt                                   -           .02      .02
1983                Al  Prlwifla                                                   Fobod ad Foad Proonuizg                13.00     -        13.00
1953                CAqmwha De   do hmpa (CM0)                                     FaI 011                                6.10      -         6.10
1983                PI   P-pal deopna. S.A.                                        hap 6 PaPer Pio&3ct                   60.00       5.17    65.17
1953                Sooc/Ls.                                                       Food ad Food Ponnmig                   3.0       2.50      5.50
1953                C9G                                                            Ce   and (htrucUm  Prterias            35.00     -        35.00
1984                OGpui. Alcoolqudi.ca Nadoud                                    CtidrA  ard PetruldscL                 210.00    4.00    24.00
1985                Q0aim  de Baia                                                 OCdhs ad Petrocdcals                    3X.       1.80     4.80
TOW Cor  uWAha-"                                                                           932.22    100.73  1.002.95
less Cocellattom. Aulnajoc.. Repriment and Saim                                            670.15     15.55   685.73
Total C           rweld bd 3 C                                                             26.L07     85.15   367.22
Total tkdLbsrmnd                                                                          63.78      10.75    74.53
October 22. 19S5



- 34 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION ENGINEERING
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to Prepare Project:        6 months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                  SUDENE, with Bank assistance
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:       July 1985
(d)  Appraisal Missions:                   October and December 1985
Ce)  Completion of Negotiations:           March 1986
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        July 1986
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section II! - Special Conditions
1.   Ca)  The Government would furnish to the Bank the resltts of se:tor
studies dealing with private irrigation schemes before preparing
feasibility studies and engineering for related infrastructure
works (para. 57);
(b) Before putting in hand final engineering, the Government would
furnish to the Bank the recommendations arising from feasibility
studies of the twelve pre-selected irrigation projects
(para. 59);
(c) A training program for the staff of the Executive Secretariat,
CODEVASF, DNOCS and DNOS would be drawn up and presented to the
Bank for comment by the Government not later than September 30,
1986 and annually thereafter (para. 64);



- 35 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Dam safety guidelines would be presented to the Bank for review
before being put into effect and not later than December 31,
1987 (para. 65); and
(e)  In preparing surveys and studies, the executing agencies would
apply technical standard acceptable to the Bank (para. 71).
2.        Additional conditions for making the proposed loan effective
would be (i) provision by the Federal Government to the Bank of
satisfactory evidence that it has approved the appropriation of counterpart
funds required in the first year of the execution of the proposed project
(para. 69); (ii) signature of an 'Implementation Agreement" -satisfactory
to the Bank - between the Federal Government on one part and CODEVASF,
DNOCS and DNOS on the other part (paras. 69 and 71), and (iii) registration
of the Loan Agreement by the Central Bank of Brazil.
3.        Signature of an agreement - satisfactory to the Bank - between
the Government and SUDENE would be a condition of the disbursement of the
proceeds of the proposed loan for the rehabilitation of CETREN (para. 75).
4.        Two special events of suspension have been added, namely, that
the Borrower shall have (i) failed to designate a successor to the
Executive Secretariat for the National Irrigation Program, satisfactory to
the Bank, for purposes of carrying out the project; and (ii) modified the
legislation establishing such successor (para 78).



r    4't  -   7; | - 4,  -' -   4BRAZIL
4% >J +-f4  -IRRIGATION ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PARA        j      \     --           - ,                                       o      too    2a     uo
/                        ta\.s...wu~ *i  W    r_W >Po .                     KILOMET-
C--Awwomb. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -A
.41         >4u                 k                  g;   
Q , "  NATAL
r   wJ-   /o A6 d- P
{.{;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d ,.C ..  c-       
12'
IRRIGATION SUBSPROJECT:
SALVADOR* r~
{,                           7<  g ' siv             _    ~~~~~~~~~DNO
a :ok. E_ .   Vesiedoc_j                   Airoods
Parts
RIven
e   Stale Copkho
o   Ta,m
-rPASIUA                            a                           rR    I                                    .
* ~      ~~~                   /                                                    Stat _cnore
L                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Region Boundaries
sA;.,~~~              i.'I   .26'- o           ' , .S--                                               ;~ 
<  't    47   4N'   ;   -   4CM   --"                         JANU 1987  ,
- -  *                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"WR1WEASTI
2V                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORZI                            -N--
JANUARY 1916



