Page  1
1
PEOPLE COMMITTEE OF HOCHI MINH CITY 
                    WORLD BANK 
 
HO CHI MINH CITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  
HDP 
 
BRIEF ENVIRONMENT REPORT  
 
HA NOI HIGHWAY  
 
FROM SAIGON BRIDGE TO THU DUC 
CROSSROAD 
 
INVESTOR: HA NOI HIGHWAY INVESTMENT AND 
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY (HNHC) 
50 Ton That Dam St, Nguyen Thai Binh Ward, Dist.1, Ho 
Chi Minh City 
 
May 2010 
E2122 
V3 
Page  2
2
BRIEF REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE WITH  
THE ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINE OF  
HFIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HDP)
 
THE SUB PROJECT OF HA NOI HIGHWAY ENLARGEMENT FROM 
SAI GON BRIDGE TO THU DUC CROSSROAD  
1. OVERVIEW 
1.1   Introduction 
Ha Noi Highway, the section of National Highway linking two southern 
key economic regions are Ho Chi Minh city and Bien Hoa city, which is one of 
the most important traffic lines ensure the transportation in the southern 
Vietnam. However it is now overloaded with the traffic jam is daily occurred.  
The subproject of Ha Noi Highway Enlargement, section from Sai Gon 
Bridge to Tan Van Crossroad with the number of lanes is 2-3 times of the 
present one will contribute to solve basically the traffic jam for the more and 
more future traffic increase in this key economic region.     
The subproject is decided to invest by HCMC People Committee upon 
the Decision number
 101/Q
-TTg dated 22
nd
 January 2007 of Prime Minister 
approved for the master plan of Traffic and Transportation in HCMC to 2020 
and the vision after 2020. It is realized under the BOT form and the anticipated 
time of refund is 27 years. The agency, the investor which formed EIA is Ho 
Chi Minh city joint-stock Company for Infrastucture Investment (CII). After 
EIA was approved, CII has established HA NOI HIGHWAY INVESTMENT 
AND CONSTRUCTION COMPANY (HNHC) with the license issued by 
Department of Planning and Investment (DPI) dated 14 July 2009 and the first 
registered change dated 15 December 2009 to manage and realize this project.  
The project basic content is to enlarge the Ha Noi Highway section from 
Sai Gon Bridge to Tan Van Crossroad with the length of 16.2km and the 
planned cross section of 153.5m (section from Sai Gon Bridge to Binh Thai 
Crossroad) and 113.5m (section from Binh Thai Crossroad to Tan Van 
Crossroad) having the scale of the main city street followed to TCXDVN 104-
2007. 
The project passes the area of District 2, 9, Thu Duc and Di An District 
of Binh Duong Province from the beginning point at the North of Sai Gon 
Bridge (km 0+197.43), Thao Dien Ward, HCMC to the end point at Tan Van 
Crossroad (km 16+200.00), Binh Thang Commune, Di An District, Binh 
Duong Province. 
Page  3
3
The Ha Noi Highway Enlargement Project using the loan of WB via 
HDP of HFIC for the section of project from the North of Sai Gon Bridge (km 
0+197,43) to Thu Duc Crossroad (km 8+100) (Loan project for short) invested 
by HNHC.  
This enviromental compliance report includes the following contents: 
1) Background;  
2) Appraisal on complying with the ES requirements of the project 
compared with those in ES guideline of HDP and 
3)  Develop the RMP of subproject if necessary. 
It is prepared after reviewing the ES related documents, proofs; listing the 
differences, shortcomings  of documents (if any) compared with  SS and ES 
guidelines of HDP and developing a RMP of subproject to meet the ES 
requirements of HDP if necessary.  
1.2.   Methods 
1.2.1    Desk review and site visiting  
In the considering the EIA of the subprojects and visiting Ha Noi 
Highway participating in HDP and working with 2 HNHC
’s officers are: 
·
Mr. Duong Quang Chau, Member of HNHC Management Board; 
·
Mr. Huynh Thai Hoang, Officer of Technical Department of HNHC 
with the participation of Mr. Nguyen Ha Lam – expert of Department of 
Investment Promotion of HFIC. 
In visiting the Highway and the local areas in which the project goes 
through, the construction site are right as in the EIA presented. discussing with 
these HNHC officers to make clearer the investor’s requirements to the 
contractors and getting more relating documents. 
 
2. APPRAISAL THE APPROPRIATENESS OF 
COMPLIANCE OF ENVIRONMENT REQUIREMENTS OF 
THE SUBPROJECT WITH ES REQUIREMENTS OF HDP  
2.1 Introduction of the subproject, impact on the atmosphere, waste solid, 
waste water and other impacts 
2.1.1   Ha Noi Highway Enlargement Subproject 
The construction items of the subproject includes: enlarge the main road 
(the centre is at the present highway centre), new construction 2 parallel roads 
(width is 10.5-12m) and construct the auxiliary works (drainage, technical 
infrastructure, tree…). In the scope of the project do not have the different 
level crossroad as well as the bridge (Rach Chiec Bridge). These belong to the 
other projects which are realized at the different time with the subproject.  
Page  4
4
2.1.1.1. Geographical location of the subproject 
The beginning point of the subproject is at the North Crossroad of Sai 
gon Bridge (km 0+197.43; co-ordinate 10
0
47’57”N- 106
0
43’41”E) and the end 
point at Tan Van Crossroad (km 16+200,00, co-ordinate 10
0
53’58”N- 
106
0
49’41”E). The line of subproject coincides with the line of present 
highway goes through 13 wards which are: Binh An, Thao Dien, An Phu 
(District 2), Tan Phu, Hiep Phu, Long Binh, Phuoc Long A, Phuoc Long B 
(District 9), Truong Tho, Binh Tho, Linh Trung (District Thu Duc)- HCMC 
and  Dong Hoa, Binh Thang, Di An - Bình Duong province. 
2.1.1.2. Scale and Design Standards          
The level and designed speed of the route are followed to the current 
Vietnam Standards:  
2.1.1.2. Road direction 
 
The road direction of all the project is concided with the present Ha Noi 
Highway direction and enlarged both sides includes 4 sections with the total 
length is 16.2km: 
 
- Section 1: North Sai Gon Bridge - South Rach Chiec Bridge (3.4km); 
 
- Section 2: North Rach Chiec Bridge – South Binh Thai Crossroad 
(2.77km); 
 
-
Section 3: South Binh Thai Crossroad – North Station 2 (5.56km)  
 
-
Section 4: North Station 2 – South Tan Van Crossroad (4.47km) 
In the frame of HDP loan includes section 1,2 and a part of section 3 
from South of Binh Thai Crossroad to Thu Duc Crossroad. 
2.1.1.3. Cross section 
The planned cross section of Ha Noi Highway is planned and approved 
by HCMC People Committee in Decision No
 373/Q
-UB dated 26/01/2005 is 
153.5m (from Sai Gon Bridge to Binh Thai Crossroad) and 113.5m from Binh 
Thai Crossroad to Tan Van Crossroad.  
2.1.1.4. The road-bed  
 
All the road-bed of the project is  essentially with soil and sand which 
are suitably treated. 
2.1.1.5. Crossroads 
At the present Ha Noi Highway has 8 large crossroads and many loacal 
roads, small roads, the company gates intersects with the parallel roads. The 
innovation of these crossroad is planned does not include in the Ha Noi 
Enlargement Project. 
2.1.1.6. The auxiliary works:     
Page  5
5
1) Sidewalk:  
The planned width of the sidewalk is 5m.
 
2) Separation band and sidewalk, corridor: 
These are concrete and 
higher than the road surface is 0.3m. In the middle band is the grass and trees.
 
3) Inclined roof and retaining wall: 
 With the inclined roof and the 
base to plant the grass to project the base of highway and the digging road is 
over the boundary of site cleaning will be constructed with bricks.
 
4) Drainage:  
Along the highway, on the 1
st
 section from Sai Gon 
Bridge to Rach Chiec Bridge had the drainage for rain water flows to the 
canals and to Sai Gon River. On the remaining sections there are no drainage 
system along the highway and the rain water flows through bothe sides by 
horizontal sewers. 
 
2.1.2. The environment issues of Ha Noi Highway Enlargement 
Subproject 
In the construction and exploitation of the Ha Noi Highway Enlargement 
Project must concern the following environment issues:   
 
1) Air pollution 
All the construction activities with or without the 
machines are specified to emit the dust and hazardous gas.  
2) Noise and Shaking Impacts: 
The construction activities cause 
noise, shaking includes the site clearance, digging and soil 
transportation as calculated in EIA. 
 
3) Waste  water  impacts: 
The waste water created from the 
construction and domestic activities from the workers, in which 
the waste water from the operation, maintenance of the machines, 
construction equipments contains the large quantity of organic 
substances, oils, and suspended solids.  
·
Waste solid impacts: 
The waste solid including chemical and 
domestic waste from the construction machines and equipments 
and from the worker activities      
2.2. Appraisal of the compliance of environment safety of the Ha Noi 
Highway Enlargement Subproject 
1) Review the environment safeguard documents provided by the 
investor before building the subproject, particularly the approval 
decisions and appraisals of the authorities;  
2)  Compare the availlable ES documents to the requirements of HDP; 
3)  Visit the subproject site.  
 
Bel
ow is the consultant’s detailed assessment. 
Page  6
6
2.2.1. The appropriateness of the government environment safety  
When the investor met with HFIC
’s authorities to arrange the budget for the 
subproject, he had already the EIA and its approved decision. Some following 
assessments after consider the relating documents areas follows:  
·
The approved project EIA has also presented completely the measures to 
minimize the negative impacts during the construction time as well as in 
exploitation time. 
·
The contractors must ensure the environment safety during the 
transportation the materials as well as the waste to and from the 
construction site on the only Ha Noi Highway which may undertake the 
heavy transportation, the nearest distance that ensure the economical 
efficiency for the contractors. 
·
There are the dangerous warning boards at the deep pits and the 2m in high 
steel fences… to ensure the safety for the people that the contractors must 
implement as in the tender documents.  
·
These cost to ensure the environment protection and safety for the traffic 
participants has been included in the tender cost and will be checked 
carefully by the investor’s agencies.  
·
Reduce the impact of noise, shaking during the construction especially at 
the specified sensitive regions must implement closely with the control, 
supervision during the construction time and vehicles as presented in EIA. 
·
If the contractors do not implement completely or not ensure the technical 
conditions and safety, the investor will hire the 3
rd
 party to implement this 
work and the cost paid will be deducted in the contract. 
·
In community consultation, the investor has consulted and received enough 
the responses with documents of the People Committees and Fatherland 
Committees of 13 wards related with the project with 100% of comments 
agree with the impacts and the mitigation measures presented in EIA.  
·
Commitment to protect environment, the investor and its tenders have 
committed enough the contents presented in EIA.   
2.2.2   ES requirements of HDP  
Apart from the compliance with the ES requirements of GOV, the 
subproject needs also to comply with the ES requirements of HDP. The item 
2.10 “ES Guideline” of HDP guides to assess the appropriateness via some 
issues that often have the differences between the ES requirements of GOV 
and those of WB such as: 
·
Community consultation and information dissemination; 
·
Investor’s ES implementation capacity;  
Page  7
7
·
Risk Management Plan of subproject that had EIA;  
·
Cost for implementing the mitigation measures, environmental works 
and monito
ring plan and the investor’s commitments which reserves 
the budget to do these activities. 
 
The assessments are as the following: 
™
Suitable community consultation and information dissemination. 
™
The investor’s ES implementation capacity:
 
Beside the budget for 
monitoring the investor needs to supplement the group for environment 
supervision in Technical Department of HNHC beside 2 environment 
supervisors for each package as in EIA. 
™
EMP/RMP (Environment Management Plan-EMP / Risk Management 
Plan-RMP): The EMP/RMP was prepared by the investor to borrow loan 
from HDP. However the investor has to supplement and develop this plan 
as follows:  
1) The articles supervised during the construction and exploitation time 
as presented in details in the approved EIA 
2) Monitoring the air pollution, noise and shaking at the specified points 
obey the standards (TCVN 5938-2005), (TCVN 5937-2005), (TCVN 
5949-1998), (TCVN 5948-1999). Beside it must include more the 
monitoring parameters such as CO, NO
x
,
HC with PM10 dust (4 
parameters). 
Beside the specified locations as presented in EIA it must include some 
sensitive locations:  
x
Ky Quang 3 Pagoda (km 0+800) 
x
Medical center of An Phu Ward (km 3+000) 
x
North Rach Chiec Resident area (Km 3+800 – Km 4+000) 
x
Tourist Area at Thu Duc District (km 6+500) 
x
Sai Gon International University (km 7+600) 
The frequency as presented in the approved EIA and in the peak 
construction time and when having the feedback of the local government the 
frequency of the air monitoring will be monthly (
in place of 3 months as in 
EIA
)
.
3.   CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION 
As the above analysis it shows that the subproject of Ha Noi Highway 
Enlargement of HNHC meets the ES requirements of GOV. However to 
borrow the budget from WB via HDP, the subproject needs to comply the ES 
of HDP as mentioned above. 
 
Page  8
8
