                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR594



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-43290)



                                         ON A

                             CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF

                                  SDR 32.8 MILLION
                          (US$ 50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                         SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                       FOR THE

  HO CHI MINH CITY INVESTMENT FUND FOR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                      June 24, 2013




Urban Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2013)

                    Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
                          VND 21,013 = US$ 1
                           US$ 1.49 = SDR 1

                          FISCAL YEAR 2013


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAA       Analytical and Advisory Activities
AFD       Agence Française de Développement
BOT       Build Operate Transfer
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DO        Development Objective
DONRE     Department of Natural Resources and Environment
DPI       Department of Planning and Investment
ECOP      Environmental Code of Practice
EMP       Environment Management Plan
FI        Financial Intermediary
FIL       Financial Intermediary Loan
FS        Feasibility Study
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOV       Government of Vietnam
HCMC      Ho Chi Minh City
HCMC PC   Ho Chi Minh City People’s Committee
HDP       HIFU Development Project
HFIC      Ho Chi Minh City Finance and Investment State Owned Company
HIFU      Ho Chi Minh City Investment Fund for Urban Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IP        Implementation Progress
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
KfW       Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
LDIF      Local Development Investment Fund
LDIFP     Local Development Investment Fund Project
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MPI       Ministry of Planning and Investment
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NPL       Non-Performing Loans
ODA       Official Development Assistance
OP        Operation Policy
ORAF      Operational Risk Assessment Framework
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PPA    Project Preparation and Appraisal
PPP    Public Private Partnership
PREM   Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
PSD    Private Sector Development Department
PSP    Private Sector Partner
ROE    Return on Equity
SBV    State Bank of Vietnam
SEDP   Socio-Economic Development Plan
SOCB   State Owned Commercial Bank
SOE    State-Owned Enterprise
SPV    Special Purpose Vehicle
TA     Technical Assistance
TOR    Terms of Reference
VND    Vietnam Dong



                   Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
                 Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa
                  Sector Manager: Jennifer Sara
             Project Team Leader: Huyen Thi Phuong Phan
                ICR Team Leader: Lawrence Tang
                                         VIETNAM
                Ho Chi Minh City Investment Fund for Urban Development Project


                                                          CONTENTS

Data Sheet

    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 15
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 31
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 32
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 32
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 39
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 40

MAP
Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
                                                                   Ho Chi Minh City
Country:                Vietnam             Project Name:          Investment Fund for Urban
                                                                   Development Project
Project ID:             P104848             L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-43290
ICR Date:               06/28/2013          ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                   HIFU DEVELOPMENT
Lending Instrument:     FIL                 Borrower:
                                                                   PROJECT
Original Total
                        XDR 32.80M          Disbursed Amount:      XDR 31.33M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 31.33M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 HCMC Finance and Investment State Own Company - HFIC (formerly HIFU)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/30/2006    Effectiveness:                             03/14/2008
Appraisal:             04/16/2007    Restructuring(s):                          03/29/2011
Approval:              06/20/2007    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                12/31/2012         12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General transportation sector                                         79                  27
Health                                                                 3                  11
Other social services                                                  3                  59
Sanitation                                                             1                   3
Solid waste management                                                14



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Municipal finance                                                     50                  30
Other urban development                                               25                  62
Urban services and housing for the poor                               25                  8

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:          Victoria Kwakwa                      Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:            Jennifer J. Sara                     Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:       Huyen Thi Phuong Phan                Kamran M. Khan
ICR Team Leader:           Lawrence Tang
ICR Primary Author:        Lawrence Tang

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO was to develop HIFU as a model LDIF (in terms of internal policy and procedures for
financial policy, sub-project appraisal, social and environmental safeguards, and partnership with
the private sector) and increase private sector participation in financing municipal infrastructure
in HCMC. The project outcome indicators were:
  - Evidence that private sector participation in financing municipal infrastructure in HCMC is
improving to be measured by the increase in total number and amount of HIFU investment (debt
and equity) per year in municipal infrastructure projects with private sector involvement, as well
as by the improvement in the leverage ratio (new private capital / HIFU direct investment) in
municipal infrastructure projects per year.

  - Evidence that HIFU performs as a model LDIF to be measured by its continued compliance
with the Financial Covenants, as well as by its adherence to the Project Preparation and Appraisal
(PPA) and Private Sector Partners (PSP) selection manuals. The satisfactory adherence of
projects funded by the line of credit to these manuals was to be a major institutional development
impact of the project; the Bank and HIFU were to also assess the extent to which these manuals
were progressively used for other HIFU investments, and regularly review lessons to be drawn
from implementation, so as to help streamline them in HIFU portfolio.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
A Level 2 restructuring was approved by the Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam and the
World Bank Country Director for Vietnam in March 2011 that did not amend the PDO but
resulted in some revised project outcome indicators.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
                Increase in total number of HFIC investment (including both debt and equity) per
Indicator 1 :
                year in municipal infrastructure projects with private sector involvement.
                                                                25-31 (debt
                                           12-15 (debt) and
Value                                                           and direct)
                                           13-16 (direct) over                  36 (29 debt and
quantitative or 1 (debt)                                        over entire
                                           entire project                       7 equity)
Qualitative)                                                    project
                                           duration
                                                                duration
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   06/21/2007           03/29/2011      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved on a total investment basis.
achievement)
                Increase in total amount of HFIC investment (including both debt and equity) per
Indicator 2 :
                year in municipal infrastructure projects with private sector involvement.
                                                                $80.5-126.5
                                           $50-89 million
                                                                million (debt $94.1 million
Value                                      (debt) and $30.5-
                                                                and direct)     ($80.1 million debt
quantitative or $4 million (debt)          37.5 million
                                                                over entire     and $14 million
Qualitative)                               (direct) over entire
                                                                project         equity)
                                           project duration
                                                                duration
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   06/21/2007           03/29/2011      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Improvement in the leverage ratio (new private capital in Special Purpose
                  Vehicle (SPV) / HFIC direct investment) in municipal infrastructure projects per
                  year, if there is equity investment by HFIC.
Value
                                            Above 6x (by Year
quantitative or   N/A                                                         6.83x
                                            5)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                06/21/2007                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Compliance of HFIC with the Financial Covenants.
Value
quantitative or   Full Compliance           Full Compliance                   Full Compliance
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                06/21/2007                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
                  Percentage of HFIC projects processed in accordance with the PPA manual
Indicator 5 :
                  guidelines.
Value
quantitative or 0%                           100%                            100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     06/21/2007                      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                Percentage of Private Sector Partners of HFIC selected using the PSP manual
Indicator 6 :
                guidelines, if there is equity investment by HFIC.
Value
quantitative or 0%                           100%                            0%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     06/21/2007                      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Not relevant as equity indicator was modified.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                          Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                             Revised
                                             approval                        Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                           documents)                         Target Years
                Number of new investments (including both debt and equity) undertaken by
Indicator 1 :
                HFIC with the LOC.
                                                            11-15 (debt
Value                                  4-6 (debt) & 7-9
                                                            and direct)
(quantitative   0                      (direct) over entire                13 (debt)
                                                            over entire
or Qualitative)                        project duration
                                                            project
                                                               duration
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     06/21/2007        03/29/2011       12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                Amount of new investments (including both debt and equity) undertaken by
Indicator 2 :
                HFIC with the LOC.
                                                                  $39.5-80.5
                                             $26-52 million
                                                                  million (debt
Value                                        (debt) & $13.5-
                                                                  and direct)
(quantitative   0                            28.5 million                       $55.5 million (debt)
                                                                  over entire
or Qualitative)                              (direct) over entire
                                                                  project
                                             project duration
                                                                  duration
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     06/21/2007           03/29/2011    12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                Projects feasibility studies by HFIC and line departments meet adequate quality
Indicator 3 :
                standards.
Value           Project owners manage
(quantitative   project preparation &        100%                               100%
or Qualitative) quality
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     06/21/2007                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Level of compliance of projects with Environmental and Social safeguards.
Value
(quantitative   None                         100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     06/21/2007                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                PSP manual is implemented in a phased manner, if there is equity investment by
Indicator 5 :
                HFIC.
Value
                Provisions of PSP manual Operational (by
(quantitative                                                                   N/A
                are new to HFIC              Year 5)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                     06/21/2007                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        No longer relevant.
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                       IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1    06/25/2008       Highly Satisfactory    Highly Satisfactory                   4.70
  2    06/30/2009          Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     15.42
  3    06/29/2010          Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              15.42
  4    06/15/2011          Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     17.42
  5    04/11/2012          Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              26.92
  6    12/26/2012          Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              46.92


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The Financing and Project
                                                     Agreements were amended to
                                                     reflect the following changes:
                                                      - The replacement of the term
                                                     “HCMC Investment Fund for
                                                     Urban Development (HIFU)?
                                                     with the term “HCMC Finance
                                                     and Investment State Owned
                                                     Company (HFIC)? t reflect the
                                                     legal change in the name of the
                                                     Borrower following a
                                                     promulgation of the HCMC PC.
                                                      - The amendment to the
 03/29/2011               S      MS          17.42   allocation of the IDA credit
                                                     under Component 1 to allow the
                                                     credit of US $50 million (SDR
                                                     32.8 million) to be allocated
                                                     more flexibly for “HFIC loans
                                                     and equity investment for
                                                     eligible infrastructure sub-
                                                     projects under Part I of the
                                                     Project.?

                                                             The Level 2 restructuring
                                                             revised the project outcome
                                                             indicators as reflected in
                                                             Section F.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Vietnam for the period 2007-11 recognized the
development of a vibrant capital market to support the financing of infrastructure as an essential
element in the reform of the financial system under its first pillar focused on improving the
business environment. The demand for municipal infrastructure in Vietnam had been increasing
rapidly as the country coped with rapid urbanization, decentralization, and high rates of economic
growth. A significant investment gap existed vis-a-vis municipal infrastructure demand and it was
assessed that the magnitude of the infrastructure demand was unlikely to be met by public
investment and official development assistance (ODA). Furthermore, two critical developments
heightened the need for policy interventions:
     The responsibility for municipal infrastructure was devolved to the provincial
        governments, which have limited budgetary resources and suffer from a combination of
        weak institutional capacity and policy uncertainties that affect the flow of private capital.
     In the near to medium term, private financial markets were not adequately deep or broad
        to meet the fast growing municipal infrastructure financing demand.

In response to these challenges, the Government of Vietnam (GOV) instituted the 2001 Public
Administration Reform Master Program (2001-10) that, among other policy reforms, established
Local Development Investment Funds (LDIFs) to allow provincial governments to mobilize
capital and enter into contracts with the private sector for the development of municipal
infrastructure. As a result, LDIFs were authorized to operate as commercial-oriented entities,
leveraging private capital and investing in municipal infrastructure projects that offer cost
recovery. LDIFs were also allowed to engage in short-term borrowing on a roll-over basis from
state-owned commercial banks (SOCBs) and other state-owned enterprises (SOEs).

The Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) Fund for Urban Development (HIFU), which was converted into
the HCMC Finance and Investment State Owned Company (HFIC) in 2011, was the first LDIF
that was established in Vietnam. Even as 28 other LDIFs have since been established, HFIC has
remained as the most financially viable and operationally successful LDIF in the country.
Cognizant of the possible mismanagement of LDIFs, which carries the risk of decreasing
investment efficiency in municipal infrastructure, increasing the contingent liabilities of the GOV,
and undermining financial market development, the GOV determined that it was critical that
HFIC adopt an operational model that can be replicated by the other LDIFs.

With the emphasis of the CPS that “making further progress in infrastructure development
requires diversifying funding sources and improving transparency in resource mobilization,
notably at the local level,? the Bank adopted an operational strategy that involved helping the
GOV establish a national policy and regulatory framework to support the development of LDIFs
(eventually leading to the enactment of Decree 138 governing the organization and operation of
LDIFs), develop a model LDIF vis-a-vis operational standards and investment efficiency, and
provide credit to LDIFs. As part of this strategy, the GOV and the Bank developed the HFIC
(formerly HIFU) Development Project (HDP) to create a road map for LDIFs to become
independent, competent, and professional infrastructure financing agencies that can leverage
private capital without distorting the market or creating contingent liabilities for the provincial
and national government. HDP was prepared in tandem with a national-scale operation called




                                                 1
Local Development Investment Funds Project (LDIFP) that was later approved in FY10 to extend
financing to qualified LDIFs throughout Vietnam and to support national policy reforms.

The Bank accelerated the preparation of HDP in FY07 to urgently support HFIC’s pipeline of
sub-projects and to respond to the commitment of the HCMC Peoples' Committee (HCMC PC) to
adopt LDIF internal policy and operational reform measures. The provision of a relatively
modest IDA credit to HFIC (US $50 million compared to US $190 million for LDIFP) was a
strategic decision by the Bank to provide immediate financing that HFIC would leverage to
mobilize private sector investment to support the immediate infrastructure needs of HCMC while
at the same time establishing systems and procedures for leveraging private sector participation
that would strengthen HFIC’s institutional capacity. The lessons from HDP were expected to be
immediately applied to LDIFP and inform the continuing reforms of the national policy
framework governing LDIFs.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO was to develop HIFU as a model LDIF (in terms of internal policy and procedures for
financial policy, sub-project appraisal, social and environmental safeguards, and partnership with
the private sector) and increase private sector participation in financing municipal infrastructure
in HCMC. The project outcome indicators were:
     Increase in total number of HIFU investment (debt and direct) per year in municipal
        infrastructure projects with private sector involvement.
     Increase in total amount of HIFU investment (debt and direct) per year in municipal
        infrastructure projects with private sector involvement.
     Improvement in the leverage ratio (new private capital / HIFU direct investment) in
        municipal infrastructure projects per year.
     Evidence that HIFU performs as a model LDIF:
             1. Compliance of HIFU with the Financial Covenants.
             2. Percentage of HIFU projects processed in accordance with the Project
                 Preparation and Appraisal Manual guidelines.
             3. Percentage of Private Sector Partners of HIFU selected using the Private Sector
                 Partner Selection Manual guidelines.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

A Level 2 restructuring was approved by the Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam and the
World Bank Country Director for Vietnam in March 2011 that did not amend the PDO but
resulted in the revised project outcome indicators as follows (changes in italics):
     Increase in total number of HFIC investment (including both debt and equity) per year in
        municipal infrastructure projects with private sector involvement.
     Increase in total amount of HFIC investment (including both debt and equity) per year in
        municipal infrastructure projects with private sector involvement.
     Improvement in the leverage ratio (new private capital in Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV)
        / HFIC direct investment) in municipal infrastructure projects per year, if there is equity
        investment by HFIC.
     Evidence that HFIC performs as a model LDIF:
             1. Compliance of HFIC with the Financial Covenants.
             2. Percentage of HFIC projects processed in accordance with the Project
                  Preparation and Appraisal Manual guidelines.


                                                2
            3. Percentage of Private Sector Partners of HFIC selected using the Private Sector
               Partner Selection Manual guidelines, if there is equity investment by HFIC.

Following these revisions, the aggregate targets were consolidated for the first two project
outcome indicators leading to formally revised targets of:
      25-31 debt and equity investments over the entire project duration, compared to the
        original targets of 12-15 debt and 13-16 equity investments; and
      US $80.5-126.5 million in total debt and equity investments over the entire project
        duration, compared to original targets of US $50-89 million in debt and US $30.5-37.5
        million in equity investments.

The revisions to the indicators were a response to a request from the Borrower to amend the
Financing Agreement to remove pre-determined limits on HFIC to allocate the IDA credit for
loan and equity investments, thus allowing HFIC more flexibility to allocate the IDA credit for
either loan or equity investments for eligible sub-projects. As discussed in greater detail in
Section 2, HFIC encountered difficulties in processing equity investments under HDP.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiary of HDP was HFIC and the two components of the project were focused
on the institutional development of HFIC as a model LDIF through the implementation of internal
policy and operational reforms. The secondary beneficiaries of the project were LDIFs that have
been established by other localities throughout Vietnam, which have benefited from the lessons
generated from HFIC’s experience in adopting good practices and policies. The national-scale
LDIFP operation, has adopted critical lessons from HDP in its design and implementation.

As the first financial intermediary operation in Vietnam designed to support LDIFs, HDP has
provided a model for other international financial institutions to channel funds through LDIFs to
support municipal infrastructure investments and to provide MOF with lessons to help improve
their regulatory and oversight practices over LDIFs. Finally, the project has also benefited the
private sector in HCMC by promoting private sector investment in municipal infrastructure and
strengthening the capacity of private sector investors to co-finance and implement infrastructure
sub-projects using sound fiduciary, safeguards, and financial standards.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Investment Capital – A line of credit amounting to an IDA Credit of US $50
million (SDR 32.8 million) was provided to HIFU to invest in cost recovery oriented municipal
infrastructure investments in partnership with the private sector. The allocation of the IDA credit
was divided into two categories:
     US $30 million (SDR 19.68 million) for “HIFU loans for eligible infrastructure sub-
         projects under Part I of the Project.?
     US $20 million (SDR 13.12 million) for “HIFU equity investments for eligible
         infrastructure sub-projects under Part I of the Project.?

A Project Preparation and Appraisal (PPA) Manual governed how HIFU investments under the
line of credit were identified, developed, and appraised. A Private Sector Partner (PSP) Selection
Manual described the way private sector participants were to be selected in project enterprises
financed under the line of credit. HFIC coordinated with the Department of Planning and




                                                3
Investment (DPI) of HCMC PC and other departments to identify municipal investment needs, as
described in HCMC master plan, which can be financed via public private partnerships.

Component 2: Technical Assistance – HIFU financed the technical assistance amounting to US
$0.5 million to support the implementation of operational reforms, including:
    1. Support to implement the PPA manual with on-the-job chief advisor and technical
        specialist, as well as a social specialist and an environment specialist;
    2. Support to implement the PSP Selection manual with on-the-job chief advisor and private
        sector specialist;
    3. Independent monitoring consultants for social and environmental safeguards policies; and
    4. Financial Audits of HIFU to International Auditing Standards.

1.6 Revised Components

The components of the project were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

As part of the Level 2 restructuring that took place in March 2011 that resulted in revisions to the
project outcome indicators (as detailed in Section 1.3), the Financing and Project Agreements for
HDP were also amended to reflect the following changes:
     The replacement of the term “HCMC Investment Fund for Urban Development (HIFU)?
        with the term “HCMC Finance and Investment State Owned Company (HFIC)? to reflect
        the legal change in the name of the implementing agency following a promulgation of the
        HCMC PC.
     The amendment to the allocation of the IDA credit under Component 1 to allow the credit
        of US $50 million (SDR 32.8 million) to be allocated more flexibly for “HFIC loans and
        equity investment for eligible infrastructure sub-projects under Part I of the Project.?

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project design was grounded on a detailed Briefing Paper completed in 2005 that highlighted
policy and operational issues concerning the development of LDIFs in Vietnam. HDP supported
the CPS for 2007-2011 and was part of a broader Bank strategy that integrated operations (i.e.,
HDP and LDIFP) and AAA programs to support LDIFs as financing mechanisms for municipal
infrastructure. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) described the deliberative process utilized
by the Bank in adopting a Financial Intermediary Lending (FIL) design after extensive internal
consultations with PSD, PREM, and IFC, and after reviewing several alternative designs. Given
the development objectives of the project and the nature of the implementing agency as a sub-
national financial intermediary, the utilization of a FIL design was clearly appropriate for HDP.

The PAD reviewed and incorporated lessons from recent Bank operations, including addressing
factors contributing to slow disbursement rates in the infrastructure portfolio, conducting due
diligence of the financial performance and condition of HFIC as a requirement for utilizing a FIL
design, and clearly linking the project to GOV policies and priorities. The Bank team worked
closely with MOF and HCMC PC officials at the preparation and pre-appraisal stages. In
particular, the Vice-Chair of HCMC PC was highly involved in the design of HDP. The GOV and




                                                  4
Bank teams also engaged prospective investors during project preparation to inform the design of
the private sector partner selection framework and to develop the early pipeline of sub-projects.

HDP was the first Bank-assisted Urban Development FIL operation in Vietnam and was also
unique in that the project would channel funds to private sector investors that would ultimately
undertake the investments in municipal infrastructure in HCMC. Hence, the Bank anticipated the
substantial risks in the application of the PPA and PSP Selection manuals, including fiduciary and
safeguards guidelines that were stricter than GOV requirements. At preparation stage, the Bank
sought to mitigate these risks by adopting a technical assistance component (Component 2) in the
design of HDP to strengthen the capacity of HFIC to implement the project manuals. The Bank
also adopted a relatively modest scale for the project (US $50 million vs. an estimated annual
infrastructure investment demand of US $3 billion in HCMC) to ensure that the financing targets
would be manageable over the five-year project implementation period. There was no QAG
review for quality at entry.

Over the course of implementing HDP, two significant implementation issues emerged that were
not clearly anticipated and accounted for during project preparation.
     Firstly, the Bank did not fully take into account the lack of clear and specific national
        laws governing private sector partner selection for creating new SPVs, which was the
        structure mandated for direct equity investments under HDP. The unclear legal
        framework undermined the demand and incentives for prospective private sector partners
        to participate in a competitive selection process, which significantly factored into the
        inability of HFIC to process any direct equity investments under HDP. The project design
        did not include mitigating measures to address this issue.
     Secondly, the risks to HDP of a potential downturn in the Vietnam economy were not
        assessed. Given that project preparation in 2006-07 coincided with a period of strong
        macro-economic growth, the possibility (remote as it may have seemed at that time) of a
        deceleration in economic and credit growth and reduction in public and private
        investment was not assessed in the PAD. Hence, the project design did not identify
        mitigating measures to address the possible impact of the macro-economic decline in
        Vietnam, which would be especially relevant to a FIL operation like HDP. It should be
        noted that HDP had been prepared before the Bank adopted the Operational Risk
        Assessment Framework (ORAF), which would likely have flagged potential risks
        regarding macroeconomic conditions and economic management.

2.2 Implementation

HDP was the first Bank-assisted project implemented by HFIC, which demonstrated strong
commitment and capacity to implement the project manuals, including the fiduciary and
safeguards guidelines and procedures of the Bank (as detailed in Section 2.4). The project’s
technical assistance activities under Component 2 were fully implemented by HFIC to mobilize
various technical experts that provided critical support to HFIC’s project management team in
mobilizing the IDA credit. There was no QAG review for quality of supervision.

HDP experienced slow disbursements throughout project implementation due to several issues
that adversely affected the processing of both debt and direct equity investments in sub-projects.
The broad challenges that affected overall HDP implementation along with the specific remedies
undertaken by the Bank team are summarized as follows:
     Difficult economic conditions – The Vietnam economy suffered a sharp deceleration in
        economic and credit growth coinciding with the project effectiveness of HDP in 2008,



                                                5
        resulting in significant reduction in public and private investment in infrastructure over
        2008-11. To generate greater interest for investment in municipal infrastructure amidst
        the financial crisis, HFIC increased its outreach efforts to potential private sector
        investors through promotion and information seminars, which were conducted at least
        twice per year.
       Challenges in applying the project manual – The PPA manual adopted by HDP
        incorporated stricter fiduciary and safeguards requirements compared to Vietnamese laws
        as well as professional guidelines and procedures for appraising sub-projects with private
        sector participation. Particularly in the early stages of implementation, HFIC encountered
        difficulties in convincing prospective private investors to adopt the higher standards for
        sub-project preparation and implementation. In response, HFIC consistently provided
        technical support to the investors to assist them in complying with the requirements of the
        PPA manual and to facilitate the procurement of civil works and goods.
       Challenges in processing transportation infrastructure sub-projects – While transportation
        sector investments were expected to be an area of focus for the project, HDP encountered
        difficulties in processing investments in this sector due to the high levels of state
        ownership of firms that invest in such sub-projects in HCMC (which effectively
        disqualify them from accessing finance from HDP), the long sub-project preparation time
        required, and the prevalence of informal settlements in sub-project sites and the
        challenges of complying with HDP’s safeguards requirements. Even so, HFIC
        continuously engaged private sector investors in searching for potential transportation
        sub-projects and eventually succeeded in processing a debt-financed investment in the
        Hanoi Highway Improvement - Phase 1 in late 2010.
       Interest rate policy for sub-loans – In principle, HDP sought to price sub-loans at market
        rates for infrastructure in Vietnam. However, the project encountered difficulties in
        identifying an appropriate market-based benchmark rate, which occasionally led to
        higher-than-market rates in the early stages of project implementation and affected the
        competitiveness of HFIC’s financing under HDP. In mitigation, HFIC worked closely
        with the Bank to periodically review the interest rate policy of HDP, which led to two
        revisions in the policy updating the original benchmark that was based on the floor
        interest rate of SOCBs: 1) in 2008, the interest rate policy was revised to benchmark sub-
        loan rates to the interest rate for the 10-year HCMC municipal bond; and 2) in 2009, the
        interest rate policy was revised to benchmark against the interest rate of state investment
        and credit loans published by the MOF.

In addition to the broad challenges enumerated above that affected HDP project implementation
on the whole, HFIC encountered specific difficulties in processing direct equity investments
under HDP. As a result, the PSP Selection Manual was not implemented by HFIC over the course
of project implementation. The following issues specifically affected direct equity investments:
     Long sub-project preparation time – Based on HFIC’s experience, the time required to
        complete procedures for implementation of a new direct equity investment project is at
        least 3-4 years (from finalization of sub-project feasibility study to competitive selection
        of private sector partner to implementation of sub-project). This average time-frame
        made it problematic to process a transaction within the implementation period of HDP.
     Inconsistency with GOV legal requirements – The lack of specific GOV legal guidelines
        on the competitive selection of private sector partners as part of the establishment of a
        new legal entity (Special Purpose Vehicle, SPV) also acted as a disincentive. Given that
        there are no requirements for competitive selection under existing GOV laws governing
        public-private partnerships, it was very challenging for HFIC to enforce the competitive
        bidding process required under HDP’s PSP Selection Manual.



                                                 6
Recognizing these problems, the Financing Agreement was amended in March 2011 to
consolidate the two original categories for eligible expenditures under HDP (loans and equity
investments) into a single category: “HFIC Loans and Equity Investments for eligible
infrastructure Sub-projects under Part I of the Project.? The amendment provided HFIC with
flexibility in utilizing the IDA credit, which facilitated the increase in sub-project processing over
2011-12 by allowing HFIC to focus on processing debt-financed sub-projects to compensate for
the dearth of direct equity investments. While the Bank team had encouraged the HFIC project
team to consider undertaking the Level 2 restructuring at an earlier stage, HFIC decided to
postpone the restructuring to provide more time to determine whether any of the direct equity
transactions in their pipeline could be processed under HDP. The Bank and HFIC teams finally
agreed to proceed with the restructuring during the Mid-term Review mission in October 2010

Overall, HFIC and the Bank proactively worked together to address the main issues of the project.
By the final year of project implementation, when six debt-financed sub-projects were appraised
and approved, HFIC had committed the full IDA credit and the disbursement rate was accelerated
such that 95.5 percent of the IDA credit was disbursed by the end-disbursement date of April 30,
2013. As detailed in Section 3.2, the increase in the total number and amount of investments
achieved the targets set in the project’s results framework.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The results framework for HDP was jointly designed by HFIC and the Bank and provided for
specific project outcome indicators for each of the two dimensions of the PDO. In terms of the
first dimension, the results framework focused on the compliance of HFIC with the project’s
financial covenants and with the application of the PPA and PSP Selection manuals. Given the
comprehensiveness and specificity of the financial covenants and the manuals, the compliance
with these requirements served as adequate indicators for assessing the development of HFIC as a
model LDIF.

In terms of the second dimension of the PDO, the results framework focused on the progressive
improvement in HFIC’s overall performance in terms of leveraging private sector investment in
financing municipal infrastructure in HCMC. As a result, the key indicators were framed as
targeted ranges of annual increases in the total number and amount of HFIC debt and direct
equity investments. While the design of these indicators reflected an effort to monitor progressive
annual improvements in HFIC performance, the utilization of annual increases and ranges rather
than setting fixed annual targets complicated the task of determining the annual and aggregate
targets of HFIC and monitoring these during project implementation.

The project outcome indicators were complemented by intermediate indicators that set specific
targets for the utilization of the IDA credit under HDP. However, there was an inconsistency in
the PAD between the results framework, which included an intermediate indicator for “Portfolio
quality indicators maintained?, and the arrangements for results monitoring, which excluded this
particular indicator. As a result, this indicator was not monitored throughout project
implementation. Apart from these issues, the overall M&E design of HDP was based on sound
technical and financial principles and the PAD outlined a comprehensive monitoring system that
detailed periodic reporting and validation of data by HFIC and the Bank.

With respect to the implementation of the M&E system, several issues emerged during HDP
implementation:



                                                  7
       Following the transition to the new system for preparing Implementation Status and
        Results Reports (ISRs) in FY11, two PDO indicators were incorrectly phrased.
        Specifically, the references to the “increase? in the number and amount of HFIC
        investments (debt and direct) per year in infrastructure projects with private sector
        involvement were not specified in the PDO indicators of the ISRs for FY11 onwards. For
        FY08-10, these indicators were correctly phrased and consistent with the PAD.
       The specification of annual targets in the ISRs for the increase in the number and amount
        of HFIC investments per year were inconsistent with the targets established in the results
        framework of the PAD. This was primarily due to the fact that the PAD results
        framework specified incremental annual increases to the number and amount of
        investments rather than fixed annual targets, which is the more common and
        straightforward approach for setting PDO indicators.
       The mismatch between, on the one hand, the submission of annual ISRs towards the end
        of the Bank’s fiscal year and, on the other hand, the end-calendar year targets set in the
        results framework of the PAD led to inconsistencies between the data reported in the
        annual ISRs and the data reported by HFIC with respect to the number and amount of
        HFIC investments per year. In the preparation of the final ISR in December 2012, the
        Bank team attempted to address these issues by clarifying the cumulative targets in the
        PAD and the aggregate achievements for the PDO indicators.

In spite of these issues in the reporting of the first two PDO indicators, the M&E system of HDP
generally served as a valuable tool for the overall monitoring of the project. The results
framework was instrumental in focusing attention on the importance of HFIC’s compliance to the
project’s financial covenants and the PPA and PSP Selection manuals. The M&E data informed
the decision of HFIC and the Bank to amend the Financing Agreement to remove pre-determined
limits on HFIC to allocate the IDA credit for loan and equity investments and to revise the PDO
indicators to consider both debt and equity investments in assessing the increase in total number
and amount of HFIC investment in municipal infrastructure with private sector involvement.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement. The procurement arrangements and documentation of HFIC were regularly
reviewed by the Bank throughout project implementation and were assessed to have been in
compliance with Bank policies and good procurement practices. The only procurement issue that
emerged was in relation to a sub-project (Nhat Lan Resettlement Apartment Building) that had
been in the pipeline approved by HFIC but was eventually determined to be ineligible to be
financed under HDP. Before the Bank had appraised the sub-project, the private sector investor
undertook the procurement of civil works whose total value exceeded HDP’s prescribed threshold
for using commercial practice, which disallowed the sub-project from being financed under the
project. This experience led the HFIC project team to conduct earlier reviews of sub-project
procurement plans in order to minimize the possibility of the same issue emerging again.

An Independent Procurement Review was conducted in mid-2012 to review the procurement,
contracting, and implementation processes; the timeliness of actions by the HFIC; and the value
for money of the contracts awarded compared to the prevailing market for a selected number of
contracts. Overall, the review confirmed that HFIC and the private sector investors fully observed
procurement procedures, signed contracts were generally found to be consistent with the
respective bids, and procurement and contract administration capacity of HFIC and the private
sector investors were generally good. The review identified specific areas for improvement for
HFIC, including: 1) the consistent preparation of detailed procurement plans before the



                                                8
implementation of sub-projects; 2) the careful assessment of the reasonableness of cost estimates
of proposed contracts; and 3) the provision of capacity building support to newly-participating
investors that are not yet familiar with Bank procurement procedures.

During the implementation of HDP, HFIC suggested that the thresholds for using commercial
practices for both civil works (set at US $5 million), goods contracts (set at US $1 million), and
consultant contracts (set at US $1 million) should be raised to be more consistent with the
existing procurement practices and conditions in Vietnam, where the investment costs have
increased in recent years. The procurement thresholds were ultimately left unchanged for HDP
due to the lengthy internal HFIC procedures for revising the project manual and the caution of the
Bank against raising thresholds for what was the first operation in Vietnam that allowed the use
of commercial procurement practices. However, the HDP experience informed the broader policy
dialogue between the GOV and the Bank and contributed to the decision to adopt of higher
thresholds for using commercial practices for both civil works and goods contracts under LDIFP.

Financial Management. HFIC was assessed to have consistently maintained adequate financial
management systems in compliance with Bank policies throughout implementation of HDP. The
overall financial management performance of HFIC was regularly reviewed by the Bank and it
was noted that HFIC: 1) consistently submitted accurate and timely interim financial reports to
the Bank; 2) consistently submitted audited financial statements of the entity and the project; 3)
maintained adequate supporting documents as evidence of the use of project funds; and 4) was
generally responsive to the recommendations of the Bank, particularly with respect to
strengthening credit management guidelines and procedures. As part of Component 2 of the
project, HFIC contracted a Vietnam-based international auditing firm to conduct auditing services
that conformed to international standards.

The final ISR from December 2012 indicated that the most recent audited financial statements for
HFIC in 2011 were rendered with a “qualified? opinion due to the insufficient provision of funds
for loans under resettled tenement construction projects dating back to 1997. The Bank was
advised that this was a temporary infraction and that HFIC has taken steps to increase the
provision in accordance with regulations. HFIC fully expects that the audited financial statements
for 2012, which will be due in June 2013, will reflect an “unqualified? opinion.

In terms of compliance with the six financial covenants of the project, HFIC generally met the
standards set by the Bank in the Financing Agreement throughout project implementation. There
were just two relatively isolated cases of infractions:
 Regarding the first covenant on “aggregate value of all equity investments does not exceed
    50% of paid-in capital,? the final ISR reported that the threshold was exceeded as a result of
    equity investments in state-owned enterprises made by HCMC PC that were channeled
    through HFIC. It was clarified by HFIC that, in a letter to MOF in March 2013, HCMC PC
    has committed to promptly address this issue by either increasing the paid-in capital of HFIC
    or divesting some of the equity investments in state-owned enterprises.
 Regarding the fourth covenant on “aggregate of investments on a single sub-project does not
    exceed 15% of total capital,? the final ISR reported that HFIC exceeded the threshold for the
    Phu My Bridge Project. HFIC clarified that the investment was a result of a directed sub-loan
    of HCMC PC financed out of a loan from Credit Agricole CIB. HFIC has committed to
    provide the Bank with documentation that supports the assertion that the sub-loan to the Phu
    My Bridge Project is not the responsibility of HFIC and should not be counted against the
    threshold for this covenant.




                                                9
Notwithstanding the issues encountered in complying with two of the financial covenants at the
end of HDP implementation, the project served as a good pilot and learning experience for
applying the Bank’s financial management guidelines and standards to LDIFs. HFIC’s experience
in implementing HDP has generated valuable lessons that are now being applied to the on-going,
national-scale LDIFP operation, including: 1) the adoption of more flexibility in the financial
covenants, including increasing the threshold for “aggregate of investments on a single sub-
project? to 20 percent of total capital; 2) the adoption of simpler and more principle-based
financial management guidelines; and 3) the provision of technical assistance to qualified LDIFs
to adopt accounting software utilized by HFIC, including the credit management applications that
are critical for improving the efficiency and accuracy of loan monitoring.

Social Safeguards. Among the 12 sub-projects financed by HDP, none required land acquisition
or resettlement. Hence, the compensation policies set forth in the PPA manual were not applied
during project implementation. The only sub-project for which OP 4.12 was applied was the
Hanoi Highway Upgrading, which was a section of a larger-scale project of HCMC. While the
HDP-financed section of the Hanoi Highway Upgrading did not require land acquisition, the sub-
project was determined to be linked to the broader project that affected people in three districts.
As a result, the Bank conducted quarterly progress reviews to validate that the compensation
made to the resettled people were in accordance with GOV laws and Bank guidelines.

The compliance of HFIC and private sector investors with social safeguards guidelines were
regularly reviewed by the Bank and all the sub-projects that were considered for financing were
subjected to due diligence reviews. As part of Component 2 of the project, HFIC contracted a
social safeguards specialist to strengthen its capacity and support the independent appraisal and
implementation monitoring of sub-projects. A review was conducted by the Regional Safeguards
Secretariat in December 2011 and the specific recommendations on the closure of monitoring of
resettlement activities for the Hanoi Highway Upgrading were fully implemented by the Bank
and HFIC.

Environmental Safeguards. HDP was classified as a category FI project triggering OP 4.01. The
PPA manual included environmental safeguards guidelines for sub-projects and a separate
Environmental Safeguards Manual was prepared for the project. As part of Component 2 of the
project, HFIC contracted an environmental safeguards specialist to strengthen its capacity and
support the independent appraisal and implementation monitoring of sub-projects.

All 12 sub-projects financed by HDP were classified as Category B projects for which either
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) or Environmental Codes of Practice (ECOPs) were
required. The EMPs and ECOPs of the HDP sub-projects were reviewed by the Bank and were
found to have been consistent with the Bank’s environmental safeguards guidelines and in
compliance with GOV laws. Safeguards documents were disclosed locally in sub-project sites
and in the Bank Infoshop. Environmental monitoring of sub-projects were assessed to have been
adequate throughout sub-project implementation and monitoring reports were prepared and
submitted to relevant agencies and the Bank on a generally timely basis. The recommendations
from the review conducted by the Regional Safeguards Secretariat in December 2011 with
respect to the review of sub-projects under implementation and continued capacity building
support to the HFIC project team were fully implemented by the Bank.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

At project closing, HFIC maintained a pipeline of 9 sub-projects that could have been considered
under HDP but will instead be proposed for financing under the on-going LDIFP operation,


                                                10
which was prepared in tandem with HDP and is a national-scale project that intends to scale-up
the institutional reforms piloted in HDP across qualified LDIFs throughout Vietnam. Some of the
operational lessons from HDP have already been adopted in the LDIFP project design and
operations manual, including: 1) increasing the threshold for using commercial practices for civil
works and goods contracts; 2) increasing the flexibility on several financial covenants for
qualified LDIFs; 3) providing simpler and more principle-based guidelines and requirements for
financial management; and 4) lowering the minimum threshold for private sector ownership for
prospective private sector investors in sub-projects. Furthermore, LDIFP utilizes the interest
policy that was finally adopted by HDP after two revisions.

HFIC’s plan to transition to accessing financing under LDIFP will ensure continued support for
the adoption and mainstreaming of internal policies and procedures that are consistent with being
a model LDIF. As further evidence of HFIC’s commitment to sustaining the institutional reforms,
it has shared the HDP project manuals with other development partners to help inform the design
of projects they are preparing with HFIC. HFIC has already started applying project preparation
and appraisal guidelines of HDP to sub-projects funded by other ODA sources, such as AFD and
KfW. Finally, HFIC will establish a plan for progressively mainstreaming the results monitoring
framework and financial covenants of HDP as part of its core internal control policies.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project development objectives of HDP have remained highly relevant to the development
priorities of Vietnam and the institutional reforms adopted by HFIC to evolve into a model LDIF
are being scaled-up through the on-going, national-scale LDIFP operation. The GOV’s current
Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) for 2011-15 includes improving market institutions
and infrastructure development among the major “breakthrough areas? for achieving high quality
and sustainable economic growth. Increasing private sector participation in financing municipal
infrastructure continues to be a key priority under the “Competitiveness? Pillar 1 of the Bank’s
CPS for 2012-15.

The utilization of a FIL proved to be an effective instrument for HDP as it allowed the Bank to
engage directly with the sub-national entity with the core mandate for financing municipal
infrastructure and enabled the Bank and HFIC teams to proactively work together to address the
emerging issues from project implementation. Learning from the HDP experience, the national-
scale project LDIFP operation also adopted a FIL as the lending instrument.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The overall achievement of project development objectives was moderately satisfactory. The
project development objectives included two dimensions, namely: 1) developing HFIC as a
model LDIF in terms of internal policy and procedures for financial policy, sub-project appraisal,
social and environmental safeguards, and partnership with the private sector; and 2) increasing
private sector participation in financing municipal infrastructure in HCMC. The results from the
key performance indicators indicate that HDP broadly accomplished the objectives (see Annex 2).

As evidence of its development as a model LDIF, HFIC fully applied the requirements of the
PPA manual for the 12 sub-projects that were processed under HDP. The application of the PPA
manual, which governed how HFIC investments under the project were identified, developed, and
appraised, was closely monitored and validated by the Bank team throughout project


                                               11
implementation. As detailed in Section 2.4, HFIC maintained good compliance with fiduciary and
safeguards policies throughout the implementation of HDP. Project feasibility studies consistently
met the Bank’s technical quality standards. With respect to financial policy, HFIC also
maintained good compliance with the financial covenants of the project.

Given that HFIC was unable to process any direct equity investments under HDP, the PSP
Selection manual, which prescribed how private sector participants were to be selected in project
enterprises, was never applied. Hence, HFIC did not make any progress in indicators of
“percentage of private sector partners of HFIC selected under the PSP Selection manual
guidelines, if there is equity investment by HFIC? and “PSP Selection manual is implemented in
a phased manner, if there is equity investment by HFIC.? Nonetheless, HFIC’s overall
institutional capacity clearly improved through the adoption of management and risk mitigation
systems as well as good practices in sub-project screening, appraisal, disbursement, and
monitoring. HFIC has committed to mainstream these practices and has already started applying
these to sub-projects financed by other ODA sources.

HDP provided good evidence of achieving the second dimension of the PDO of increasing private
sector participation in financing municipal infrastructure in HCMC. In terms of both the
aggregate number and amount of investments over the five-year project implementation period,
HFIC processed 36 sub-projects (including 29 debt and 7 direct equity) that leveraged US $94.1
million (including US $80.1 million in debt and US $14 million in direct equity) for municipal
infrastructure investments with private sector participation, compared to the revised aggregate
targets of 25-31 sub-projects and US $80.5-125.5 million, respectively. From pre-HDP baseline
levels where HFIC processed only one debt financed infrastructure sub-project with private sector
participation annually, HFIC succeeded in processing 29 such sub-projects over the five-year
project implementation period, which accounted for 39 percent of the value of the overall HFIC
loan portfolio over that period. The aggregate HDP sub-loans leveraged an equal amount of
private investment, which is strong evidence the project helped to mobilize private sector capital
for municipal infrastructure in HCMC.

As detailed in Section 2.2, several issues limited the capacity of HFIC to process direct equity
investments under HDP and necessitated the restructuring of the project revising the project
outcome indicators to consolidate the targets for debt and direct equity investments. The original
results framework specified a target of 13-16 direct equity investments with a value of US $30.5-
37.5 million over the five-year implementation period, of which 11-15 investments with a value
of US $13.5-18.5 million were to have been financed by HDP. Nonetheless, HFIC still made
progress on this front by financing 7 sub-projects using its own funds, which were the first such
transactions for HFIC. This led to improvements in the leverage ratio of new private capital in
SPVs to HFIC direct equity investment, which reached 6.38x by the final year of project
implementation, exceeding the target of 6x. The experience from HDP helped to strengthen
HFIC’s overall institutional capacity to pilot these transactions and provided valuable lessons
going forward in leveraging direct equity investments for municipal infrastructure, including: 1)
the need to provide for longer sub-project preparation times to prepare and process direct equity
investments; and 2) the need to resolve inconsistencies in the GOV legal guidelines that results in
disincentives for utilizing a competitive selection process for private sector partners.

3.3 Efficiency

A detailed due diligence of HIFU’s financial accounts was conducted as part of project appraisal
to determine the financial viability of HIFU to undertake a Financial Intermediary operation in
partnership with the Bank. The analysis that reviewed the three-year period ending in 2005


                                                12
confirmed that HIFU was in a strong financial position to implement HDP. An update of the
financial analysis for the three-year period ending 2011 is detailed in Annex 3 and indicates that
HFIC has improved its financial position over the period of HDP implementation.

The total assets of HFIC increased to 9,065 billion VND in 2011, representing a 270 percent
increase from 2005. The increase in total assets has been driven by the expansion of HFIC’s loan
portfolio, which grew from 2,916 billion VND in 2005 to 6,494 billion VND in 2011. In spite of
the expansion of the loan portfolio, non-performing loans have been maintained at very low
levels, reaching just 0.72 percent of HFIC’s total loans. Importantly, HFIC strictly complies with
State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) requirements for the general provision for loan losses, which
ensures that HFIC has allocated adequate provisions for non-performing loans. HFIC’s liquidity
position also improved as its current ratio increased to 4.9 in 2011 compared to just 1.1 in 2005.

HFIC’s success in achieving the HDP objective of increasing private sector participation in
financing municipal infrastructure is clearly reflected in the evolving composition of its loan
portfolio, wherein 56 percent of the loan portfolio in 2011 was allocated to borrowers with private
sector ownership compared to 44 percent for SOEs. This is in stark contrast to 2005 where private
sector lending represented only 15 percent of the total portfolio. Further, long-term investments in
private investments in private firms, including equity and bond investments, have expanded
rapidly, increasing to 1,824 billion VND in 2011 compared to just 256 billion VND in 2005.

Even with the rapid expansion of HFIC’s assets and loan portfolio, it remains adequately
capitalized with a capital adequacy ratio of 91 percent in 2011. Paid-in charter capital has been
increased to 2,730 billion VND in 2011, which is more than twice the levels in 2005. Finally,
both net revenues and net income have increased by more than four-fold since 2005 while the
return on assets has been maintained at acceptable levels, reaching 4.4 percent in 2011.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The evidence from HDP’s results monitoring indicates that HFIC made good progress in
strengthening its institutional capacity as a model LDIF and in increasing private sector
participation in financing municipal infrastructure in HCMC. Furthermore, HFIC’s financial
condition substantially improved over the project implementation period suggesting that it is in a
stronger fiscal position as an infrastructure financing entity that can effectively leverage private
capital. However, HFIC was unable to successfully process direct equity investments under the
project due to quality at entry and implementation issues.

Both the Bank and HFIC were proactive in their efforts to mitigate the major issues; in particular,
a Level 2 restructuring was processed at the latter stage of the project that helped to address
critical impediments in implementation and facilitated in accelerating the disbursement rate to
reach almost full disbursement at the close of HDP. Importantly, HFIC demonstrated strong
commitment and capacity to fully apply the PPA manual, including the fiduciary and safeguards
guidelines and procedures of the Bank. Although no direct equity investments were processed by
the project and the PSP Selection manual was ultimately not utilized, the institutional
development facilitated by HDP enabled HFIC to pilot direct equity investments using its own
funds and to draw lessons for processing such transactions in the future.

Finally, the project development objectives of HDP continue to be relevant to the development
priorities of the GOV. The institutional reforms adopted by HFIC are being scaled-up to other


                                                13
LDIFs throughout Vietnam through the on-going, national-scale LDIFP operation. Operational
lessons drawn from HDP have already been adopted in the LDIFP project design and manual.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project development objectives and components did not have specific focus on poverty
impacts, gender aspects, and social development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project development objective of HDP is focused on the institutional strengthening of HFIC
to develop it as a model LDIF. As discussed in detail in Section 3.2, HFIC has demonstrated good
progress in instituting good practices and systems for leveraging private sector participation in
financing municipal infrastructure in HCMC. Furthermore, as detailed in Section 3.3, HFIC’s
financial condition substantially improved over the project implementation period and it is in a
stronger fiscal position as an infrastructure financing entity. Finally, there are clear measures for
scaling up the institutional reforms adopted by HFIC applying the lessons and good practices
from HDP through the on-going, national-scale LDIFP operation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project did not have any significant unintended outcomes and impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Overall, there are moderate risks that the development outcomes of HDP will not be maintained.
In terms of sustaining the good practices of a model LDIF, there is a risk that HFIC may
discontinue the application of the PPA manual after project closing given the challenges for
prospective private investors to comply with the requirements. However, HFIC has stated its
intention to develop an implementation plan for gradually mainstreaming the HDP’s project
manual, along with the project’s results monitoring framework and financial covenants, into its
core operations. In the near term, HFIC is already applying the operating guidelines and
procedures of HDP for sub-projects to be funded by other ODA sources, such as AFD and KfW.

HFIC intends to continue to access IDA financing through the on-going, national-scale LDIFP
operation, which will facilitate the mainstreaming of internal policies and procedures that are
consistent with being a model LDIF. A pipeline of 9 potential sub-projects from various sectors is
being considered for LDIFP financing. Furthermore, over the course of HDP project
implementation, HFIC has established itself as a role model of other LDIFs in Vietnam and has
served as a learning resource for other LDIFs (e.g., through hosting study tours of delegations of
LDIFs from other provinces).




                                                 14
In terms of sustaining private sector participation in financing municipal infrastructure in HCMC,
there is a risk that HFIC’s mainstreaming of HDP’s project manual, including its stricter fiduciary
and safeguards requirements, may discourage private sector investors from accessing HFIC
financing. However, the rapid uptake in processing sub-projects in 2012 indicates that the HFIC’s
extensive efforts to stimulate interest among private sector investors through promotion and
information seminars have, in tandem with an improving macro-economic outlook, proven to be
very effective. Importantly, HFIC is committed to continue to provide technical support to the
investors to assist them in complying with the requirements of the project manual and to facilitate
the procurement of civil works and goods.

Finally, weak macro-economic conditions may continue to stifle the demand for private sector
investment. Recent Bank economic forecasts indicate that while GDP growth has slowed down in
2012 to the lowest levels since 1999, the overall macro-economic conditions have stabilized in
the past two years as a result of good domestic policies and an improving external environment.
Specifically, the SBV has taken aggressive monetary policy actions to stimulate the credit
environment and encourage domestic private investment. These economic developments bode
well for HFIC as it pursues its mandate to mobilize private capital for municipal infrastructure.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As noted in Section 2.1, the project design was firmly grounded on extensive analytical work and
was consistent with the Bank’s strategy to support LDIFs as a financing mechanism for municipal
infrastructure in Vietnam. The Bank undertook a deliberative process in adopting a FIL design,
including extensive internal consultations and the review of several alternative designs. The
project preparation of HDP reviewed and incorporated lessons from recent Bank operations and
enumerated key risks and mitigation measures for the project at preparation stage, including both
the slow preparation and implementation of sub-projects and the challenge of implementing the
new PPA and PSP Selection manuals.

Nonetheless, the Bank could have been more deliberate in assessing the lack of clear and specific
legal guidelines governing private sector partner selection for creating new SPVs in the design of
the project, which was the critical issue that ultimately prevented the processing of any direct
equity investments under HDP. The risks to HDP of a potential downturn in the Vietnam
economy were also not flagged at the project preparation stage. Hence, the project design did not
identify mitigating measures to address impact of the macro-economic decline in Vietnam that
coincided with the HDP implementation period.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank provided consistent and proactive implementation support to HFIC throughout the
implementation of the project. To supplement the five formal supervision missions, which were
undertaken annually and were accompanied by aide memoires that comprehensively documented
the key issues and challenges encountered, the Bank team frequently met with the HFIC project


                                                15
management team to tackle the issues faced by the project (approximately 20 meetings took place
from 2008-12) and maintained close contact through informal channels (such as emails and
teleconferences). A mid-term review was conducted in October 2010 that reviewed overall
project implementation, including: 1) a summary of findings from a review of financial
intermediary arrangements and implementation of LOCs in Vietnam; and 2) a review and
preliminary agreement for proposed amendments to the Financing and Project Agreements, which
were eventually approved in March 2011. During the final year of project implementation when
there was pressure to accelerate disbursements to fully utilize the IDA credit, the Bank team and
HFIC conducted monthly reviews to ensure that disbursement performance would stay on-track.

The Bank provided solid technical support and supervision to ensure the satisfactory safeguards
and fiduciary compliance of the project. As noted in HFIC’s project monitoring reports and
project completion report, the Bank was consistently responsive in appraising sub-projects that
were considered for financing under HDP. Importantly, sector specialists (e.g., from Education,
Health, and Transportation teams) were engaged to ensure that technical issues were adequately
assessed during sub-project appraisal.

Nonetheless, the disbursement levels for HDP were consistently below target throughout project
implementation. While an amendment to the Financing Agreement was eventually processed to
provide HFIC with more flexibility in utilizing the IDA credit among both debt and direct equity
investments, this took place at a relatively late stage of project implementation. The HFIC project
completion report also raised the issue that in the Bank’s effort to ensure a balanced and
diversified portfolio of sub-projects, the appraisal of social sub-projects in the immediate pipeline
was occasionally postponed to prioritize the appraisal of potential technical sub-projects that were
in earlier stages of preparation. While the Bank was justified in advising HFIC on the importance
of diversifying the composition of sub-projects (which had been skewed towards sub-projects in
social sectors in the early stages of project implementation), it is important to note that there were
no legal requirements reflected in the Financing and Program Agreements regarding the need for
HFIC to balance the portfolio of HDP sub-projects among social and technical infrastructure.
Hence, HFIC should have been allowed to process sub-projects on a first-come, first-served basis
to avoid delays in processing sub-projects.

Finally, as detailed in Section 2.3, there were weaknesses in the Bank’s implementation of the
HDP’s monitoring and evaluation system, specifically with regard to the lack of monitoring of
one indicator that was included in the PAD results framework and inconsistencies in the
specification of annual targets and the reporting of data in the ISRs.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, in spite of some weaknesses in the quality at entry and supervision, as well as very
challenging macro-economic conditions under which the project was implemented, HDP broadly
achieved the project development objectives and disbursed almost the full IDA credit. The Bank’s
extensive efforts to provide timely implementation support to HFIC and to be responsive to the
needs of the client were critical to the relative success of the project. In particular, the Bank
team’s technical support and collaboration with the HFIC project team in the final year of project
implementation facilitated the acceleration in disbursements, which allowed HDP to close on
schedule -- the first Urban Development operation in Vietnam to do so. Finally, the close
coordination among the Bank teams implementing the HDP and LDIFP operations ensured that
lessons generated from HDP were quickly applied to the design and implementation of LDIFP.


                                                 16
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

From project preparation to implementation, HCMC PC demonstrated strong commitment to
achieving the project development objectives of HDP. The Vice-Chair of HCMC PC was directly
involved in the preparation of the project and consistently chaired the wrap-up meetings of the
regular supervision missions of the Bank. Upon project effectiveness in late 2007, HCMC PC
established a highly qualified project team and appointed the HFIC Deputy Director General as
the project director. The project director was maintained throughout the project implementation
of HDP, which helped provide stability to the project. HCMC PC also provided strong support to
fully implement the technical assistance component (Component 2) of the project in a timely
fashion, which allowed HFIC to mobilize various technical experts that provided critical support
to HFIC’s project management team.

HCMC PC provided consistent support to HFIC in its efforts to address the implementation
issues that emerged during project implementation. DPI reviewed the pipeline to ensure that sub-
projects were consistent with HCMC’s overall infrastructure investment priorities. The
Department of Finance (DOF) closely monitored the implementation of the project and was
instrumental in facilitating the processing of the amendments to the Financing Agreement in
March 2011 and the revisions to the interest rate policy of HDP. Furthermore, HCMC PC
consistently cooperated with the Bank during supervision activities and in undertaking periodic
reviews and studies (such as the Independent Procurement Review, survey report on investment
demand and interest rates, and review of lines of credit in Vietnam). However, the lengthy
process for HCMC PC to approve resolutions ultimately made it very difficult to adopt any
amendments to the project manuals, even though the Bank had encouraged HFIC to propose
amendments to both the PPA and PSP Selection Manual that could have immediately addressed
some of the critical implementation issues faced by the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

HFIC was highly committed to achieving the project development objectives and made strong
efforts to address the major implementation challenges encountered by the project, which
ultimately led to the successful effort to accelerate the processing of sub-projects in late stages of
project implementation to fully commit the IDA line of credit. Importantly, in spite of the
challenges in working with private sector investors in implementing the PPA manual for HDP
sub-projects, HFIC satisfactorily complied with the Bank’s fiduciary and safeguards requirements.

However, disbursement levels were consistently below target throughout project implementation
and the challenges of processing direct equity investments under HDP were ultimately not
overcome under the project. Even though there were successful efforts to review and amend the
interest rate policy of the project, such efforts were not replicated with respect to amending the
project manuals to address some of the impediments to processing both debt and direct equity
investments. Furthermore, as detailed in Section 2.2, there were minor infractions in terms of
compliance with the two of the financial covenants of the project.




                                                 17
But overall, despite the considerable implementation challenges encountered during project
implementation, HFIC was successful in closing the project on time and has prepared for
transition arrangements to continue accessing IDA financing through LDIFP, which will help to
facilitate the adoption and mainstreaming of internal policies and procedures that are consistent
with being a model LDIF.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, there is good evidence to show that HFIC made progress in achieving HDP’s project
development objectives of developing as a model LDIF and increasing private sector participation
in financing municipal infrastructure in HCMC. However, the difficult macro-economic
environment coupled with specific issues in borrower performance contributed to the generally
low disbursement levels throughout project implementation and the unsuccessful processing of
direct equity investments under HDP. Nonetheless, HDP is the first Urban Development
operation in Vietnam to close on time and on budget and HFIC is well-positioned to continue to
access IDA financing through LDIFP to support municipal infrastructure in HCMC with private
sector participation. The lessons learned from HDP and HFIC’s development as a model LDIF
has already helped to strengthen the project design and implementation of LDIFP, which will
help to scale-up the impact of HDP to other LDIFs across Vietnam.

6. Lessons Learned

Adoption of WB safeguards and fiduciary guidelines to local conditions. Among the major
challenges encountered during project implementation was the difficulty of many prospective
private sector investors in complying with the project’s safeguard and fiduciary guidelines, which
were not fully consistent with GOV laws and policies. For example, feedback from HFIC and
private sector investors indicated that GOV safeguards laws and policies are not necessarily of
lower standards compared to the Bank’s but differences in reporting formats and timings
occasionally made it difficult and costly for investors to comply with Bank requirements. This
suggests that efforts to move towards adopting country systems for safeguards and fiduciary
guidelines should be continued by the Vietnam country team.

Development of mitigation measures to address inconsistencies with legal requirements.
The lack of specific GOV legal guidelines requiring the competitive selection of private sector
partners as part of the establishment of a new legal entity (SPV) served as a disincentive for
prospective private investors to participate in direct equity investment sub-projects under HDP. In
such cases where a project seeks to apply higher operational policy standards than what are
statutorily required, the project design should proactively consider mitigation measures (such as
incentives, concurrent AAA/TA to support policy reforms, etc.) to help facilitate project
implementation.

Amendments of the Project Manuals. The Financing Agreement and PAD of HDP provided
for possible amendments to the Project Manuals subject to the clearance of the Bank and a
resolution of the HCMC PC. While the manuals were periodically reviewed by HFIC and the
Bank and suggestions for possible revisions were noted in various aide memoires prepared during
supervision missions, there were ultimately no amendments undertaken primarily due to the
lengthy internal HFIC procedures for revising the project manual. In contrast, two amendments to
the interest rate policy were undertaken during project implementation, which helped to resolve
issues of above-market lending rates during the early stages of implementation. In cases such as


                                                18
HDP where project implementation was affected by the challenges in applying certain guidelines
of the Project Manual, such as those pertaining to procurement and safeguards, the Borrower
should be strongly encouraged to review and to formally propose amendments.

Flexibility in the processing of sub-projects regardless of sector. In the case of HDP where
there was an open menu for sub-projects, HFIC should have been provided with the flexibility to
appraise eligible sub-projects in its pipeline on a first-come, first served basis. If the maintenance
of a diversified and balanced portfolio of sub-projects was an important priority, then it should
have been appropriately incorporated into the Financing and/or Program Agreements during the
project preparation stage. In the absence of such requirements, the Bank should not have
postponed the appraisal of sub-projects from certain sectors in favor of other those from other
sectors, particularly in the context where disbursement levels were generally below targets.

Accounting for directed investments. HFIC generally complied with the financial covenants of
the project with the exception of isolated incidents that were a result of directed investments of
HCMC PC in sub-projects that were channeled through HFIC. Although HFIC clarified that the
risks for these investments were borne by HCMC PC, there should be a clearer explanation and
reporting for these exceptions, ideally in the annual audited financial statements of HFIC.
Furthermore, such cases should trigger a formal systematic review by the Borrower and the Bank
of the appropriateness of the specific financial covenant as a measure of LDIF capital adequacy in
order to inform upstream policy and program reforms that the GOV may consider.

Strategic linkages between HDP and LDIFP. The sequenced preparation and implementation
of HDP and LDIFP has strategically allowed the Bank to distill and apply lessons from the
implementation of HDP to the design and implementation of LDIFP in real-time. This has
allowed the Bank to scale-up the impact of single city pilot project to a national scale in a rapid
yet deliberative fashion that strongly supports the GOV’s policy reform goals.

Strong Borrower ownership and commitment to the project. In the case of HDP which was
implemented in very constrained economic conditions for private sector investors, the strong
commitment of HCMC PC and HFIC to promote the project to the investor community, to
provide technical assistance to private sector partners in applying the Project Manual, and to
collaborate very closely with the Bank team in continuously developing the pipeline of sub-
projects and appraising potential sub-projects, were critical in ensuring the achievement of the
PDO and the commitment of the full IDA credit.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

N/A




                                                 19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal Estimate    Latest Estimate*      Percentage of
Components
                                          (USD millions)        (USD millions)        Appraisal
Investment Capital                               80.00                 78.80            98.5%
Technical Assistance                              0.50                  0.50            100.0%
Total Baseline Cost                              80.50                 79.30            98.5%
Physical Contingencies                            0.00                  0.00               -
Price Contingencies                               0.00                  0.00               -
Total Project Costs                              80.50                 79.30            98.5%
Project Preparation Fund                          0.00                  0.00               -
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00                  0.00               -
Total Financing Required                         80.50                 79.30            98.5%
* As of April 10, 2013.


(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal         Latest
                                           Type of                                     Percentage of
Source of Funds                                            Estimate       Estimate*
                                         Cofinancing                                     Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                Counterpart    30.50           30.50          100.0%
International             Development
                                                       50.00          48.80          97.6%
Association (IDA)
* As of April 10, 2013.




                                                      20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 – Investment Capital

                                                                   Investment                        Disbursement
                                                                                    HDP Sub-Loan
No.       Sub-project                       Sector                 cost      (VND                    as of 4/30/13
                                                                                    (VND billions)
                                                                   billions)                         (VND billions)
          Building of waste water
                                             Waste water
1         treatment plant at North                                     20.8              13.6             13.6
                                             treatment
          West Cu Chi Industrial zone
          Building of Khai Sang              Education
2                                                                     140.7              80                80
          International school               Infrastructure
          Building of worker dormitory
3                                            Worker                    49.8              35                35
          at Tan Tao IZ (expansion)
                                             Dormitory
          Expansion of Waste water
4         treatment plant at Tan Tao         Waste water               29.5              20.5             15.5
          Industrial zone                    treatment
          Building of international
5         neurosurgical hospital (Phase      Health                   224.4              115              99.3
          1& 2)                              infrastructure
          Building of Tri Tue Viet kinder
6                                            Education                105.0              35.2             32.8
          garden and primary school
                                             Infrastructure
          Hanoi highway improvement -        Transportation
7                                                                     431.0             292.3             290.5
          Phase 1                            Infrastructure
          Building Nguyen Tat Thanh
8                                            Education                290.0              87.7             75.5
          University – An Phu Dong
                                             Infrastructure
                                             Education
9         Ton Duc Thang University                                    130.5              80               61.9
                                             Infrastructure
                                             Education
10        Canada Bilingual School                                     266.0              130              130
                                             Infrastructure
     Building education centre
11   oriented student career –               Education                420.9              140              84.9
     District 7                              Infrastructure
     Building House of Culture for           Education
12                                                                     88.6              50               37.3
     Women – Facility 2                      Infrastructure
TOTAL (VND billions)                                                  2,196.5          1,079.5            956.3
USD million equivalent                                                 109.0             54.0              47.8

Component 2 – Technical Assistance

The consultants that were identified under this component were contracted by HFIC in a timely
fashion and were assessed to have provided good quality support to the project team throughout
HDP implementation.

           TA package 1 (Independent monitoring of social and environmental safeguards) – The
            consultant has provided satisfactory service and the final monitoring report was
            completed at the end of February 2012.
           TA package 2 (Independent monitoring of implementation of resettlement plans) – As all
            the sub-projects have had land already owned by the project owner, there were no
            resettlement issues and thus the consultant was not utilized.
           TA package 3 (Support for project preparation and appraisal manual) – The consultant
            assisted the HFIC project team in reviewing the Social Safeguards Manual and
            Environmental Safeguards Manual.



                                                              21
   TA packages 4 and 5 (Private sector partner advisor and technical specialist) – As HFIC
    did not have HDP direct equity investments, these consultants were not utilized.
   TA package 6 (Financial audits) – The contract was signed on Dec 31, 2008 and the
    auditor completed audit reports for 2008, 2009 and 2010 in good quality which met the
    Bank’s requirements. The contract was liquidized in 2011 because a similar arrangement
    for financial auditing has been made by MOF under the context of on-going LDIFP
    operation.




                                          22
Summary of Results Framework (Year 1-3)
                                                                                                                   Year 1                                    Year 2                                          Year 3
                                                                                               Baseline            HDP Actuals           Target              HDP Actuals           Target                    HDP Actuals           Target
                                  1    Increase in total number of HFIC investment
                                       (including both debt and equity) per year in                                                                          4 (3 debt and 1                                 11 (9 debt and 2      6-8 (5-7 debt and
                                                                                               1 (debt)            6 (debt)              3 (debt)                                  4-5 (debt)
                                       municipal infrastructure projects with private sector                                                                 direct)                                         direct)               1 direct)
                                       involvement.
                                  2    Increase in total amount of HFIC investment
                                                                                                                                                             $9.37       million                             $21.82      million   $30.5-56.5 million
                                       (including both debt and equity) per year in                                $8.89       million                                             $13-26       million
                                                                                               $4 million (debt)                         $7 million (debt)   ($8.47M debt and                                ($19M debt and        ($30-56M     debt
                                       municipal infrastructure projects with private sector                       (debt)                                                          (debt)
                                                                                                                                                             $0.9M direct)                                   $2.82M direct)        and $0.5M direct)
                                       involvement.
                                  3    Improvement in the leverage ratio (new private
                                       capital in Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) / HFIC
                                       direct investment) in municipal infrastructure          N/A                 N/A                   N/A                 3.71x                 N/A                       2.44x                 6
                                       projects per year, if there is equity investment by
                                       HFIC.
                                  4    Compliance of HFIC with the Financial Covenants.        Full Compliance     Full Compliance       Full Compliance     Full Compliance       Full Compliance           Full Compliance       Full Compliance
PDO Indicators




                                  5    Percentage of HFIC projects processed in
                                                                                               0%                  100%                  100%                100%                  100%                      100%                  100%
                                       accordance with the PPA manual guidelines.
                                  6    Percentage of Private Sector Partners of HFIC
                                       selected using the PSP manual guidelines, if there      0%                  N/A                   N/A                 0%                    N/A                       0%                    100%
                                       is equity investment by HFIC.
                                  7    Number of new investments (including both debt                                                                                                                                              2-3 (1-2 debt and
                                                                                               0                   3 (debt)              2 (debt)            3 (debt)              1 to 2 (debt)             1 (debt)
                                       and equity) undertaken by HFIC with the LOC.                                                                                                                                                1 direct)
                                  8    Amount of new investments (including both debt                                                                                                                                              $17.5-30.5 million
                                       and equity) undertaken by HFIC with the LOC.                                                                          $8.47       million   $6-19           million   $13.87      million   ($17-30M     debt
                                                                                               0                   $6.05 million         $3 million (debt)
                                                                                                                                                             (debt)                (debt)                    (debt)                and $0.5 million
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   direct)
Intermediate Results Indicators




                                  9    Projects feasibility studies by HFIC and line           Project    owners
                                       departments meet adequate quality standards.            manage project
                                                                                                                   100%                  100%                100%                  100%                      100%                  100%
                                                                                               preparation and
                                                                                               quality
                                  10   Level of compliance of projects with Environmental
                                                                                               None                100%                  100%                100%                  100%                      100%                  100%
                                       and Social safeguards.
                                  11   PSP manual is implemented in a phased manner,                               System put in         System put in       Selection process     Selection process         Selection process
                                                                                               Provisions of PSP
                                       if there is equity investment by HFIC.                                      place       and       place       and     is operational for    is operational (first     is operational for    Mainstreaming the
                                                                                               manual are new to
                                                                                                                   communicated to       communicated to     any          early    evaluations take          any          early    selection process
                                                                                               HFIC
                                                                                                                   market                market              evaluations           place)                    evaluations




                                                                                                                                           23
Summary of Results Framework (Year 4-5 and Cumulative Summary)
                                                                                                                   Year 4                                         Year 5                                        CUMULATIVE TOTAL / FINAL YEAR
                                                                                               Baseline            HDP Actuals           Target                   HDP Actuals          Target                   HDP Actuals     Target
                                  1    Increase in total number of HFIC investment
                                       (including both debt and equity) per year in                                3 (1 debt and 2                                12 (10 debt and 2                             36 (29 debt and 7     25-31 (12-15 debt
                                                                                               1 (debt)                                  5-6 (direct)                                  7-9 (direct)
                                       municipal infrastructure projects with private sector                       direct)                                        direct)                                       direct)               and 13-16 direct)
                                       involvement.
                                  2    Increase in total amount of HFIC investment                                                                                                                                                    $80.5-126.5
                                                                                                                   $4.48       million                            $49.55     million                            $94.1       million
                                       (including both debt and equity) per year in                                                      $6.5-8.5       million                        $23.5-28.5 million                             million ($50-89M
                                                                                               $4 million (debt)   ($3.18M debt and                               ($40.56M     debt                             ($80.1M debt and
                                       municipal infrastructure projects with private sector                                             (direct)                                      (direct)                                       debt & $30.5-
                                                                                                                   $1.3M direct)                                  and $8.99M direct)                            $14M direct)
                                       involvement.                                                                                                                                                                                   37.5M direct)
                                  3    Improvement in the leverage ratio (new private
                                       capital in Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) / HFIC
                                       direct investment) in municipal infrastructure          N/A                 3.75x                 6                        6.83x                Above 6                  6.83x                 Above 6
                                       projects per year, if there is equity investment by
                                       HFIC.
                                  4    Compliance of HFIC with the Financial Covenants.        Full Compliance     Full Compliance       Full Compliance          Full Compliance      Full Compliance                                Full Compliance
PDO Indicators




                                  5    Percentage of HFIC projects processed in
                                                                                               0%                  100%                  100%                     100%                 100%                     100%                  100%
                                       accordance with the PPA manual guidelines.
                                  6    Percentage of Private Sector Partners of HFIC
                                       selected using the PSP manual guidelines, if there      0%                  0%                    100%                     0%                   100%                     0%                    100%
                                       is equity investment by HFIC.
                                  7    Number of new investments (including both debt                                                                                                                                                 11-15 (4-6 debt
                                                                                               0                   0                     4-5 (direct)             6 (debt)             2-3 (direct)             13 debt
                                       and equity) undertaken by HFIC with the LOC.                                                                                                                                                   and 7-9 direct)
                                  8    Amount of new investments (including both debt                                                                                                                                                 $39.5-80.5
                                       and equity) undertaken by HFIC with the LOC.                                                      $6-8           million   $27.14     million   $17-20         million   $55.52      million   million ($26-52M
                                                                                               0                   0
                                                                                                                                         (direct)                 (debt)               (direct)                 debt                  debt & $13.5-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      28.5M direct)
Intermediate Results Indicators




                                  9    Projects feasibility studies by HFIC and line           Project    owners
                                       departments meet adequate quality standards.            manage project
                                                                                                                   100%                  100%                     100%                 100%                     100%                  100%
                                                                                               preparation and
                                                                                               quality
                                  10   Level of compliance of projects with Environmental
                                                                                               None                100%                  100%                     100%                 100%                     100%                  100%
                                       and Social safeguards.
                                  11   PSP manual is implemented in a phased manner,                               Selection process                              Selection process                             Selection process
                                                                                               Provisions of PSP
                                       if there is equity investment by HFIC.                                      is operational for                             is operational for                            is operational for
                                                                                               manual are new to                         Operational                                   Operational                                    Operational
                                                                                                                   any          early                             any          early                            any          early
                                                                                               HFIC
                                                                                                                   evaluations                                    evaluations                                   evaluations




                                                                                                                                             24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A detailed due diligence of HIFU’s financial accounts was conducted as part of the HDP
appraisal process to determine the financial viability of HIFU to undertake an FI operation in
partnership with the Bank. The analysis that reviewed the three-year period ending in 2005
confirmed that HIFU was in a strong financial position to implement HDP. This Annex provides
an update of the financial intermediary analysis for the three-year period ending 2011 to assess
the progress in HFIC’s overall fiscal condition since the implementation of HDP.

Balance Sheet. HFIC’s balance sheet has been significantly strengthened since the 2005. The
total assets of HFIC stood at 9,065 billion VND in 2011, representing a 270 percent increase from
2005. The increase in total assets has been driven by the expansion of HFIC’s loan portfolio,
which grew from 2,916 billion VND in 2005 to 6,494 billion VND in 2011. Long-term
investments in private investments in private firms, including equity and bond investments, have
expanded rapidly, increasing to 1,824 billion VND in 2011 compared to just 256 billion VND in
2005. On the liability side, paid-in charter capital has been increased to 2,730 billion VND in
2011, which is more than twice the levels in 2005. HFIC’s liquidity position also improved
considerably as its current ratio increased to 4.9 in 2011 compared to just 1.1 in 2005.

Balance Sheet
                                                                                                       Billion VND
                             2003         2004             2005             2009             2010               2011
Assets
Cash and current
                             370.4        208.6            111              663.5            559.6             645.4
accounts with Banks
Short term receivable                                                       64.8             89.5              61.7
Inventories                                                                 0.2              0.2               ?    
Loans and advances
                             1,695.8      2,608.2          2,916.1          6,049.1          6,077.0           6,493.70
to customers*
Provision for credit risks                                                  (58.2)           (31.2)            (51.2)
Long term investments        127.7        155.7            256.3            1,344.8          1,659.3           1,823.9
Fixed assets (net)            3           38.7             38.3             62.8             66                66.7
Construct. in Progress       0.9          0.9              0.9              4.8              16.1              16.3
Other assets                    6         0.4              1                0.08             0.1               0.3
Total assets                 2,203.5      3,012.5          3,323.6          8,131.9          8,436.6           9,056.8
Liability
Customer deposit / Other
amounts due to customers
                              49.6        32.3             35.2
Other/current liabilities     44.7        43.7             66.2             127.8            155.3             142.9
Long term liabilities**       1482.4      2153.8           1828.2           5,495.3           5,517.3          5,802.1
Total liability               1,576.7     2,229.8          1,929.6          5,623            5,672.6           5,945.0
Owner's Equity
Capital from State
                              397.8       459.7            1,007.3          2,155.6          2,175.9           2,730.5
Budget
Other equity                  54.8        227.5            281.0            41.7             41.7              0.0
Foreign exchange
                              0.8         0.9              0.5              4.2              4.5               0.9
difference
Investment and
                                                                            241.5            241.4             0.0
development fund
Retained earnings             55.4        82.3             85.4                              234.7             291.2
Reserves                      118         12.3             19.8             65.8             65.8              89.2
Total owner's equity          626.8       782.7            1,394.0          2,508.8          2,764.0           3,111.8
Total Liability & Equity      2,203.5     3,012.5          3,323.6          8,131.9          8,436.6           9,056.8
Source: Financial Statements of the HFIC and PAD.
(*) including loans from trusted funds to customers (2003: 579.8 bn; 2004: 673.4 bn; 2005: 676.3 bn; 2009: 2,056.1 bn ; 2010:
2,031.1 bn; 2011: 2,171.1 bn) which HFIC does not bear credit risks
(**) including funds for trusted funds as discussed in (*)




                                                            25
Loan Portfolio. HFIC’s success in achieving the HDP objective of increasing private sector
participation in financing municipal infrastructure is clearly reflected in the evolving composition
of its loan portfolio, wherein 56 percent of the loan portfolio in 2011 was allocated to borrowers
with private sector ownership compared to 44 percent for SOEs. This is in stark contrast to 2005
where private sector lending represented only 15 percent of the total portfolio.

Overall loan portfolio review
Billion VND
                                             2003               2004              2005              2009              2010           2011
Medium and Long term to customers            1,116.0            1,272.8           1,761.2           3,993.0           4,045.9        4,322.6
Loans from trusted fund to customers         579.8              673.4             676.2             1,464.4           1,599.4        1,849.8
Other loans to customers                     -                  662.0             478.7             591.7             431.7          321.3
                                             1,695.8            2,608.2           2,916.1           6,049.1           6,077.0        6,493.7


Loan portfolio by type of business
Billion VND
            2003                 2004                    2005                     2009                     2010                   2011
            VND         %        VND         %           VND            %         VND          %           VND          %         VND          %
SOE         978.2       88       1,773.6     93          1,914.5        85        1,967.6      43          1,947.9      44        2,033.8      44
Private     234.8       22       310.6       17          325.4          15        2,617.1      57          2,529.7      56        2,610.1      56
Total       1115.9      100      1934.8      100         2239.9         100       6593.7       100         6487.6       100       6654.9       100


Loan portfolio by industry
Billion VND
                     2003                2004                   2005                 2009                     2010                2011
                     VND         %       VND         %          VND           %      VND             %        VND           %     VND          %
Transport
                     324.9       29      576.2       30         749.8         33     655.5           14       524.7         12    530.4        11
infrastructure
Water/Electric
                     53.4        5       210.5       11         199.4         9      196.9           4        164.1         4     131.3        3
supply
Industrial and
residential zone     394.1       35      710.6       37         837.8         37     658.6           14       573.4         13    493.6        11
infrastructure
Public health        154         14      202.2       10         222.2         10     430.5           9        615.6         14    667.8        14
Education            90.7        8       116.7       6          126.8         6      150.3           3        227.8         5     388.2        8
Others               98.8        9       118.9       6          103.9         5      2,492.9         54       2,372.0       53    2,432.6      52
Total                1,115.9     100     1,935.1     100        2,239.9       100    4,584.7         100      4,477.6       100   4,643.9      100
This amount excluded loans from trusted funds to customers but included the portion of loans from the participants of other banks in
syndicated lending, which cannot be separated by the HFIC.


In spite of the expansion of the loan portfolio, non-performing loans have been maintained at very
low levels, reaching just 0.72 percent of HFIC’s total loans. Importantly, HFIC strictly complies
with State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) requirements for the general provision for loan losses, which
ensures that HFIC has allocated adequate provisions for non-performing loans.




                                                                    26
Non-performing loans and write-offs
Billion VND
                                               2003          2004         2005           2009          2010        2011
Loans to customers                             1,695.8       2,608.2      2,916.1        5,456.0       5,644.9     6,171.1
Overdue loan                                   1.3           1.2          1.0            0.6           1.0         31.0
%                                              0.12%         0.06%        0.04%          0.01%         0.03%       0.72%
Provision for loan losses                      -             -            -              (58.2)        (31.2)      (51.2)


Investment Portfolio. HFIC’s investment portfolio has rapidly grown in the past six year,
accounting for 20.1 percent of total assets in 2011 compared to 7.7 percent in 2005. The
investment portfolio is rather diversified in terms of the types of investment, industry, and size.
Prior to 2009, HFIC's long term investment portfolio included mainly investment in associates
and securities. Since 2010, HFIC has included corporate bond in its holdings, although these
remain at very low levels as of 2011.

Investment portfolio
Billion VND
                                               2003          2004         2005           2009          2010        2011
Other long term investment                     1.2           0.8          0.4            700           1,000       1,191
         Investment in associates                                                       700           918         1,086
         Investment in bonds                                                                          82          105
Investment in securities                       126.5         154.9        225.9          645           677         734
% of Total Assets                              9%            12%          18%            22%           26%         28%

Investment in associate
Billion VND
                                                     2005              2009                    2010               2011
                             Investee's
    Investee's name                                         Interest              Interest             Interest              Interest
                             business                VND               VND                     VND                VND
                                                            (%)                   (%)                  (%)                   (%)
                             Financial
1   HSC
                             investment
                                                     10                371.4                   371.4   30.0       491.4      30.0
    Binh Chanh
2   Construction             Construction            12.6              151.2                   252.0   26.8       252.0      27.9
    Investment (BCCI)
    Cu Chi Investment
3   Industrial Dev           Industrial land         4.5               20.7                    20.7    22.5       20.7       22.5
    Commercial Corp
    Kenh Dong Water          Water supply
4   Supply JSC               & sewerage
                                                     15                81.9                    97.5    39.0       117.0      39.0

    Northwest Saigon City
5   Dev Corp
                             Construction                              75.0                    125.0   25.0       125.0      25.0

    Tan Cang Hiep Phuoc
6   Port
                             Infrastructure                                                    51.3    20.0       51.3       20.0

                             Financial
7   HFIC Investment JSC
                             investment
                                                                                                                  1.5        30.0

    Thanh Nien Printing
8   JSC
                             Printing                                                                             11.6       30.2

    Quartz Mechanical &      Electrical
9   electricity Corp         trade
                                                                                                                  15.8       21.3

Total investment in associate                                          700.1                   917.8              1,086.2




                                                                 27
Other Long Term Investments
Billion VND
                                                   2005                 2009                 2010                  2011
                               Investee's
       Investee's name                                       Interest             Interest            Interest                Interest
                               business            VND                  VND                  VND                   VND
                                                             (%)                  (%)                 (%)                     (%)
1      EXIM Bank               Banking                                  118.4     0.7         118.4    0.7         118.4      0.6
2      SACOM Invest. & Dev.    Telecom.            2.1                  2.8       0.4         2.8      0.4         2.8        0.4
                               cable
                               manufacture

3      GIA DINH Water          Water supply                             0.6       0.4         0.6      0.4         0.6        0.4
       Supply                  & sewerage

4      CHO LON Water           Water supply                             3.4       2.3         3.4      2.3         3.4        2.3
       Supply                  & sewerage

5      PHU HOA TAN Water       Water supply                             0.4       0.5         0.4      0.5         0.4        0.5
       Supply                  & sewerage

6      HD Bank                 Banking             43.5                 174.0     9.5         174.0    5.0         174.0      5.0
7      VIET A JSC              Banking             9.8                  38.3      2.4         38.3     1.3         38.3       1.3
8      HCMC Infrastructure     Construction        59.5                 129.9     16.3        129.9    16.3        129.9      16.3
       JSC

9      REE                     Real Estates        22.5                 49.4      5.8         49.4     5.8         98.1       5.8
10     Thu Duc Housing Dev     Real Estates        6.0                  28.7      8.9         28.7     8.9         28.7       8.9
       Corp

11     Thu Duc Water BOO       Water supply        29.0                 80.0      16.0        80.0     16.0        80.0       16.0
       JSC                     & sewerage

12     Sai Gon Health          Health       care                        4.5       5.1         14.7     16.7        14.7       16.7
       Investment JSC          services

13     HCMC Rubber             Other                                    8.8       5.2         23.7     13.9        26.0       13.0
14     Thanh nien xung phong   Agriculture                              5.6       7.0         11.2     14.0        17.0       14.7
       Agriculture

15     Saigon Construction &   Construction                                                   1.9      8.3         1.9        8.3
       Quality Control

Total other long term investments                  172.3                644.7                677.3                  734.1


Investment in bond

                                                          Purchase                                            Interest
    Year         Investee’s Name                                         No of bond          VND bn                         Term
                                                          date                                                %/year
    2011         HCMC Infrastructure JSC bond             27/01/11       71.08               71.08            7%            5 years
                 Thu Duc Housing Dev bond                 1/11/2010      336.6               33.66            7%            3 years
                 Total                                                                       104.74
    2010         Bond issued by REE                       2/8/2010       48,665              48.67            7%            1 year
                 Thu Duc Housing Dev bond                 1/11/2010      336.6               33.66            7%            3 years
                 Total                                                                       82.33


Capital Adequacy Ratio. Even with the rapid expansion of HFIC’s assets and loan portfolio, it
remains adequately capitalized with a capital adequacy ratio of 91 percent in 2011. HFIC’s paid-
in charter capital has been increasing as a result of infusions of cash from the HCMC’s state
budgets, which has strengthened the capital base of HFIC.



                                                               28
Capital Adequacy Ratio
Billion VND
                                 2003      2004         2005      2009               2010             2011

Chartered capital                452.6     687.2        1288.2    2,155.6            2,175.9          2,730.5
Reserves (non distributable)     171.6     91.4         99.9      353.2              588.2            381.4
Total capital                    624.2     778.6        1,388.2   2,508.8            2,764.1          3,111.9
Risk weighted assets (RWA)       1,063.5   1,085.7      1,249.7          2,817.4     3,216.5          3,423.8
Capital Adequacy Ratio           59%       72%          111%      89%                86%              91%


Income Statement. Net revenues and net income have both increased by more than four-fold
since 2005, reflecting the improving operating performance of HFIC. Interest income from
lending accounts for 55.4 percent of total income while the next significant contributor is from
investment activities, which accounts for 26.3 percent. There has been a steady growth in those
sources of income over years as a direct result of the growth and the good quality of the lending
and investment portfolio. Importantly, the key performance ratios of HFIC have generally been
maintained at good levels since 2005 with the return on assets being maintained at acceptable
levels, reaching 4.4 percent in 2011.

Operating and administration expenses remain relatively low given the current size and
operations of the HFIC because it continues to operate under the umbrella of the HCMC PC. The
staff costs of HFIC are still in line with the overall salary scale applicable to public servants
rather than of commercial entities. The current salary scale of the HFIC is also below the salary
structure of commercial banks having similar size.

Income Statement
Billion VND
                                           2003         2004      2005             2009        2010         2011
Revenue
Loan interest                                                                      124.8       212.6        332.4
Investment activities                                                              142.6       88.4         157.9
Deposit interest                                                                   46.6        59.3         76.1
Fees from entrusted activities                                                     6.2         7.5          18.4
Operating lease                                                                    3.8         3.7          4.0
Others                                                                             8.2         8.9          11.1
Net revenue                                88.7         120.6     131.2            332.1       380.4        599.8
Operating cost
Loan interest                                                                      65.7        75.9         102.1
Provision for LT investment                                                                    18.2         83.0
Provision for credit risk                                                          (9.0)       (27.1)       20.0
Other expenses                                                                     2.3                      0.7
Net expenditure                            27.3         31.9      38.3             59.0        67.0         205.8
Gross profit                               61.3         88.7      92.9             273.2       313.4        394.1
Administration expenses                    4.5          6.0       6.3              20.9        31.0         44.3
Other incomes                              0.4          1.8       1.6                          1.1          0.9
Other expenses                             1.8          2.2       2.8                          0.1
Other profits                                                                      0.0         1.0          0.9
Total BTAX Profit                          55.4         82.3      85.4             252.3       283.4        350.7




                                                   29
Key Performance Ratios
                                   2003    2004         2005    2009    2010    2011

Net income/Total Assets=ROA        6.17%   7.12%        6.85%   3.80%   3.66%   4.38%
Interest Income/Total Assets       5.50%   6.02%        5.32%   2.05%   3.32%   4.83%
Interest Expense/Total Assets      1.77%   1.53%        1.76%   1.08%   1.19%   1.48%
Net Interest Margin/Total Assets   3.70%   4.20%        3.60%   0.97%   2.13%   3.35%
Provision Expense/Total Assets     NA      NA           NA      0.95%   0.77%   2.21%




                                                   30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                  Responsibility/
Names                        Title                                    Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
  Kamran M. Khan               Task Team Leader                        EASSH
  Cuong Duc Dang               Co-Task Team Leader                     EASVS
  Luc Lecuit                   Senior Operations Officer               EACTF
  Hoa Thi Mong Pham            Social Specialist                       EASVS
  Phuong Thi Thanh Tran        Environmental Specialist                EASVS
  William Michael Dachs        Consultant                              EASIS
  Hoi Chan Nguyen              Senior Counsel                          LEGES
  Apurva Sanghi                Lead Economist                          PRMED
  Giang Thi Huong Nguyen       Program Assistant                       EACVF
  Isabel Duarte A. Mutambe     Program Assistant                       EASIN
  Supervision/ICR
  Kamran M. Khan               Program Manager                          EASSH
  Cuong Duc Dang               Task Team Leader                         EASVS
  Peter Ellis                  Lead Urban Economist                     SASDU
  Tuan Anh Le                  Social Specialist                        EASVS
  Toan Huy Ngo                 Environmental Specialist                 EASVS
  Son Van Nguyen               Environmental Specialist                 EASVS
  Khang Van Pham               Environmental Specialist                 EASVS
  Hung Tien Van                Senior Energy Specialist                 EASVS
  Thanh Thi Mai                Senior Education Specialist              AFTEE
  Param Iyer                   Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist     EASVS
  Hoi Chan Nguyen              Senior Counsel                           LEGES
  Hisham A. Abdo Kahin         Lead Counsel                             LEGVP
  Vinh Quang Nguyen            Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.              TWIEA
  Van Anh Thi Tran             Sr Transport. Spec.                      EASVS
  Huyen Thi Phuong Phan        Urban Specialist/ Task Team Leader       EASVS
  Dean Cira                    Lead Urban Specialist                    AFTU1
  Viet Quoc Trieu              Sr. Financial Sector Specialist          EASFP
  Sameer Goyal                 Sr. Financial Sector Specialist          EASFP
  Giang Thi Huong Nguyen       Program Assistant                        EACVF
  Demilour Reyes Ignacio       Program Assistant                        EASIN


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                USD Thousands (including travel
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                                      and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                               43.46                     294,997.58
Total:                                               43.46                     294,997.58
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                             17.81                        62,758.73
  FY09                                             16.48                        54,495.09
  FY10                                             23.96                        63,951.24
  FY11                                             18.83                        69,759.54
  FY12                                             23.66                        68,034.77
  FY13                                             14.13                        32,726.70
Total:                                            114.87                       351,726.07




                                                31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A


Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Assessment of HDP project’s effectiveness

By using resources of HDP project, HFIC has chance to approach and increase resources for city
infrastructure investment while the city’s budget is unbalanced; And, to develop gradually the
participation of private sector in investment, such as:

      For the city: the project has satisfied step by step the demand of infrastructure
       development without the dependence on city’s budget and developed gradually policies
       to attract the participation of private investors. For quantitative analysis, total investment
       of sub-projects was estimated at 106 million USD with 50.5 million USD was financed
       and 55.4 million USD was attracted from private investors, excluding value of land as
       well as the attraction of brainpower for private sector investment. This is a new form of
       ODA which differs from the ODA traditional and was proved by HFIC. Then this kind of
       borrowing was developed for other local investment funds in Vietnam (the LDIFP
       project).

      For the private investors: Before the HDP project, a number of private investors invested
       in infrastructure projects with revenue (schools, hospitals, roads, workers dormitory, etc.)
       with the participation of commercial banks. The financing banks have more advantages
       then HFIC (giving working capital loans, other services, appraisal time, revenue control,
       etc.), while at this time, HFIC mainly did investment with state-owned companies and
       had no advantages of long-term capital and stable loan interest.

       Loan procedures of projects approached to banks only required to comply with Vietnam
       Law, which is simpler than have to comply with the regulations of HDP project. Investors
       could do the projects in the form of rolling. Banks could lend for compensation (then
       investors could mortgage that ground itself) in order to continue the projects. However,
       these funds resources and loan period are limited.

       The financial market was lacking of long-term capital and involving many uncertain
       factors owing to the global crisis, in the difficult situation of finding capital since 2008,
       the investors accessed the HDP resources with low and stable interest, long-term loans
       (which could not be satisfied by commercial banks sometimes) which was suitable for
       infrastructure projects investment; environmental safety criteria, social security,
       procurement and project management are asymptotic to provisions of global standards
       (through requirements in HDP Manual) helps investors to perform better than before.
       During the investment process and operation, risks management was controlled so
       investors could invest in areas encouraged the participation of private sector by the City.




                                                32
       For HFIC: HDP resource supports the development of HFIC’s operation and attracts
        private capital to invest in urban infrastructure projects which are verified, filtered and
        ensured to have revenue during the project-life in accordance with cost-recovery
        orientation.

        Manuals (Project Preparation, Project Appraisal and Private Sector Partnership Selection)
        are built based on the closed cooperation between HFIC and Planning and Investment
        Department, Finance Department and other related Departments of the City. Manuals are
        considered and approved by Ho Chi Minh City People’s Committee. The application of
        Manuals’ criteria enhances the operating capacity (in terms policy and internal operating
        procedures, promotion and project appraisal, social and environment safety policies,
        cooperation with private sector and project management after disbursement) and
        increases the effectiveness of projects. Moreover, HFIC’s operation becomes more
        professional and standardized to international regulations.

        The support collaboration between task teams (TT-WB) has responded promptly
        consultation requirements since the sub-project start to approach HFIC.

        The strict compliance of HFIC with Agreement on Finance and well-performance on
        provisions of Manuals are an importance of institutional development which helps HFIC
        organize the company’s investment portfolio better.

Direct Investment projects are not implemented owing to reasons

The time required to complete procedures for implementation new investment projects is at least
3-4 years. And the general crisis of the economy during the implemented time of the project is
also a reason. The application of Private Sector Partnership Selection Manual had difficulty in
bidding selection private partner. In fact, if there is an infrastructure investment project approved
by the City, according to the Manual, bidding more other investors are required if HFIC wants to
participates in this project. Therefore, it is difficult to get the satisfaction of related investors
(characteristics of land ownership in Vietnam: investors rarely agree to share investment rights on
their owned land to other investors). The work of developing a new project through the
establishment of a new legal entity (SPV) should have specific legal guidelines of the State on the
bidding for private partner selection, as well as the executive time also depending on other
objective reasons.

During the approaching process with sub-projects, due to the large capital needs, HFIC and
investors has contacted with other various domestic and foreign donors (such as IFC, JBIC,
BIDV, KFW, etc.) but has not received official response from these organizations. Since donors
need time to arrange feasible funds to finance the projects and usually are interested in large-scale
projects which have opportunity to participate in equity (shareholders); while as characteristics of
HDP project and private investors often invest in small or medium sub-projects to create
opportunity for private investors to participate in infrastructure projects of the city in long term
and stable interest.

Review of the implementation of the Project Manual

HIFU has been identified and invest in a number of projects successfully. Although the project
evaluation process of HIFU has also worked quite well, HIFU has been found that with the
foreseeable growth in workload, it will need a more comprehensive and consistent process for
investment appraisal. To facilitate this, a system of preparation and evaluation of new projects


                                                 33
have been developed and make an agreement with HIFU and the HCM City People's Committee.
Preparation Manual and Project Appraisal (PPA) is a combination of comprehensive evaluation
of the technical, financial, social and environmental safety, and including the following:

       Identification and initial screening of projects
       The matrix of evaluation is simple and easy to understand, describe the results of the
        evaluation and to be able to rank priority projects
       A process for the project was appraised by the HCM City Department involved in both
        financial and non-financial obligations associated methods of project evaluation and
        social security.
       Methods of risk assessment
       The process of assessing the appropriate
       Contact Partner Selection Manual of HIFU private sector
       The requirements for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting

Manual prepared for practical use; using diagrams and step-by-step explanation of the different
processes. Manual will apply to all new projects funded by HDP but HFIC can use for other
projects. A schedule for annual review and revised Manual was developed. Manual includes the
evaluation of loan request which HFIC takes no role in preparing the project as well as prepares
for new projects which HFIC will fund the capital investment. It also sets unique standards
system for evaluating projects whether the proposed project is voluntary or not.

The application of the Manual on HFIC activities in the framework of HDP funds has some
advantages and disadvantages as follows: according to the Agreement being signed, in order to
ensure coherence in the implementation of the project, HFIC and investors apply the Manual with
step by step, increasingly standardized screening in the project review, evaluation and control of
disbursements, project management to improve efficiency in verification and investment
decisions. However, in practice, HDP funds only consider funding projects credit loans, no
conditions for applying to the direct investment projects. Thus, the implementation of the Manual
(especially the Manual preparation and evaluation of projects) only applies to a part and do not
have the conditions to fully assess the advantages and disadvantages as well as effective
compliance manual, as follows:

       Preparation and Appraisal (PPA) Manual
            o Evaluation of the implementation of environmental safety: the implementation of
                this Manual has been applied on all project loans, as well as process of applying
                the work to comply with the application process manual step-by-step. Following
                the steps as defined in the Manual is not fully applicable due to the unique nature
                of the project when the loan completes the environmental procedures. On that
                basis, depending on the type of project ,HFIC makes the plan related to risk
                management and make a disclosure of information (high risk of projects) or just
                the overall assessment of the implementation of risk management (low-risk
                projects). Overall assessment by the Manual bases on the strict regulations and
                apply to direct investment projects (HFIC participate in the first stage), so
                depending on project loan that may have to apply flexible activity in the
                problems whether or not to disclose information risk management plans,
                community consultation and evaluation capacity of investors and this is the
                actual situation arises that manual is not mentioned. Therefore, in recent times
                (from 05/2010 to 09/2010) HFIC and TA3 consultant has reviewed and tried to




                                               34
               take this particular situation into Manual to guide specific regulatory framework
               case by case.
           o   For the implementation of social security: According to the Vietnamese legal
               regulations related to granting the loan to investors at the credit institution,
               completing the legal procedures for construction permits, as well as being
               granted the certificates of land use right ,that is considered as to meet the
               requirements of social securities regulations of Vietnamese law. Therefore, HFIC
               should verify that whether the investors have made the procedures of social
               securities under the guidance of Manual of the World Bank or not.
           o   HFIC has shorten the obstacles as well as the process of evaluation through the
               exposure to investors earlier, state the requirements of the social environment,
               prepare the procurement plans and other characteristics of the manual of project,
               that help the investors to implement these requirements earlier, in case they
               expected to be able to use HDP funds. This work also helps to reduce the difficult
               for HFIC in the formal evaluation of the projects later on.
           o   The procurement plan and evaluation criteria: HFIC has complied with such
               regulations; however the actual loan projects of HDP have been deployed the
               bidding plan by the investors in accordance to Vietnamese law before making
               proposal financing from HFIC. Therefore, the adjustment for items that is not
               inconsistent with the provisions of manual has affected the time and the progress
               of making the project (the case of the construction of Primary Viet Nam
               Intellectual kindergarten).

      Manual selection of the private partner: The last time was just only making the disbursed
       loan projects, has not generated a direct investment project, so there should not be the
       basis for evaluating the ability of applying and performing of the provisions of manual.
       However, through preliminary contact of a number of direct investments, to welcome
       more investors with the purpose of participating with initial investors and HFIC does not
       receive the support from the initial investor (presented in section 3.1). Thus, the applying
       of bidding criteria of private investors need to be considered and applied flexibly for each
       direct investment in the future.

Implementation process

In the process of project implementation HDP, HDP project management unit (PMU) has been
having some problems as follows:

      The manual of HDP has many new features and tighter than the current process of HFIC
       as well as the law of Vietnam. Thus, the members of PMU faced with many obstacles
       when finding out, researching to organize together with guiding and explaining to
       investors the difference between Manual and the provision of Vietnamese law .That aims
       to make the investors understand and cooperate in the implementation of the manual.
           o The compliance Manual: as a pilot project that seems to be unprecedented in VN,
               it should not be too strict when dealing with procurement issues (the case of Nhat
               Lan department), selection of private partner (the case of building flyover-
               crossing Provincial Route 10A, 10B)
           o The requirement related to clean surface limits the number of projects that access
               the capital of HDP (the Urban projects make a loan at the credit institutions in
               Viet Nam in the form of rolling)




                                               35
            o    Due to the ongoing impact of the fluctuations of interest rate and financial crisis,
                 finding and attracting sub-project, direct investment were affected by psychology
                 of investors and delay an extension of the ongoing project.
       The limit of international bidding: machinery and equipment worth over $ 01 million, and
        construction items valued at over $ 5 million that have to make an international bidding.
        Above values is not large, many investors do not want to make international bidding due
        to time-consuming and more expensive. The slow adjustment of this content in the
        manual reduces the attraction of HDP projects, especially in the period of screening and
        evaluation of projects and leads to limit the investment capital from HDP.
       Environment: for the loan project, as usual, investors often have to work officially with
        credit institutions after completing legal formalities and starting to make the construction.
        Therefore, the requirement of the investor to implement a strict process (implementation
        of environmental management plans and disclose information to people affected)
        according to the provisions of the Safety and Environmental Manual make difficult to
        convince investors to deploy these procedures. HFIC‘s proposal applies only to the
        Safety and Environmental regulations for new projects implemented in the first stage. In
        the case of projects approved environmental impact assessment is not required to publish
        information about the plan risk management to the people, just need to announce for local
        authorities to manage the investors forced to comply. HFIC will ask the consultant expert
        evaluate and compare the compliance of the project in terms of the social environment
        and propose the way how to deal with the World Bank in order to consider resolution of
        each particular case.
       Components of investor: State investors have accounted for less than 51% of the
        company shares related to the sub-project; thus, a city’s emergency infrastructure
        subproject have not access to this capital in each given time.

Private investors
     Normally, compensation cost or ground creating are very large compared to the total
        investment. The cost of compensation, leveling is not accepted to loan because this is the
        operation that usually lasts for a long time and it is difficult to determine the time to put
        the project into operation.
     Therefore, the selection of investors that meet the criteria HDP was hard, but also to have
        "clean land, sovereignty" even harder, because when investors had clean land, it is easy
        for them to access to commercial banks. Furthermore, commercial banks have so many
        other support services for investors (loans for working capital, etc.)
     Find enough projects in the right areas under the direction of the manual when preparing
        the project in the period of the end of 2009 to 2010; affecting progress for the project.
     The interest rates should be suitable with the fluctuation of the market while the
        compliance requirements the manual of HDP project is too closely compared with the
        general provisions of the law.
     Limitation related to international bidding to make capital less attractive. (items of
        medical equipment, parkings is generally higher than 1 million USD).
     Long time for searching and refinement project in the first year of the project.
     In the earlier years (the time from 2008 to 2010), if Vietnamese commercial bank granted
        for loan , the procedure was performed simpler, less time consuming, not imposed quotas
        of international bidding, together with the support of granting loan for working capital.

Interest rate




                                                 36
It is not very often, but the lending rate of the HDP project is higher than the interest rate of the
credit institutions in Vietnam and is slowly adjusted. According to circular No. 201/2011/TT-
BTC dated 30/12/2011 of the Ministry of Finance on the approval of interest rate for investment
credit and export credit, investment credit interest rates of State Vietnam dong is 14.4% / year, an
increase of 3% / year comparing to the past (11.4% / year), making the interest rate of the projects
funded with the World Bank (WB) to a maximum of 15.9% / year (the interest rate for HDP’s
loan = interest rate for investment credit + investment management fee of 1% - 1.5% / year). At
the same time, the project is not funded by the WB that is applied with the frame rate = average
savings interest rate term of 12 months (interest payment) of 04 commercial banks + management
fees (<= 3% / year) but not lower than investment credit interest rates. Policy of reduced interest
rates have made lending rate of the project is not funded by the WB reduced and going down to
14.4% at the specified period (lower interest rates when using the WB funds). Meanwhile, the
projects funded by the WB fund must meet more complex procedures (compared with loans of
Vietnamese credit institutions) related to social safety, environmental safety, procurement ... but
suffer higher interest rates. This has caused investors to hesitate to participate in the HDP project.
However, six months later, the Ministry of Finance issued Circular No. 104/2012/TT-BTC dated
25/06/2012 on the prescribed interest rate investment credit and export credit. Accordingly, the
interest rate for the State's investment credit loans in Vietnam dong is 12% / year, which is down
2.4% compared to the previous level. The lower interest rate is a good sign for the customer using
WB funds but due to the generally difficult economic situation, the remaining disbursement
period is not much enough to attract new projects.

Institutional Development of HFIC

Project of Ho Chi Minh City Investment Fund for Urban Development-HDP official effective
date of 14/03/2008 and became the first project in Vietnam that the World Bank funding for a
development of local fund. On 02/02/2010, the People’s Committee issued Decision No. 576/QD-
UBND set up HCM city Finance and Investment State owned Company (HFIC) on the basis of
reorganization Ho Chi Minh City Investment Fund for Urban Development (HIFU). HFIC
operates as a one-member limited liability company. HFIC’s activities will contribute to the
renewal of the relationship between state management agencies and enterprises, implementation
methods of management in accordance with market principles and the integration trend that
create a motivation on speeding up the process of renovation, restructuring state-owned
enterprises, promote capital market and stock market development. The implementation of HDP
project has contributed to improve capacity for the project over time as follows:

       Before implementing the project: Although HIFU has been in operation nearly 10 years
        since its establishment, the consideration of decision making for the project has taken on
        investment rules and credit financing of Vietnamese government. However, this
        implementation is not based on a specific standard rules and processes do not
        synchronize, loans funded by HIFU in that time has distributed medium-term financing
        (Few projects are granted loans from 10-12 years). Activities which aim to review the
        implementation of environmental safety, social security as well as the procurement that
        was conducted in accordance with the law of Vietnam, not according to international
        practice.

       Period of project preparation: early access to the regulations, standards of requirements to
        be scrutinized for making an agreement that helps HIFU gradually improve awareness of
        the implementation of the management measures, risk mitigation as well as the steps in
        the evaluation of screening, the appraisal and the disbursement of project. Although in
        first time, there are difficulties in accessing prescribed manuals for the project, it was


                                                 37
        very helpful for improving operational management level through the system with
        general regulations of the World bank that have been issued for a long time. Seminars,
        training exchange regulations have made in a short time, but the advantages related to the
        implementation of the project HDP’s operation becomes easier in the next time.

       Period of implementation the project: because there has been training, preparing the
        review process in HDP manual, thus the application of provisions is no longer meet the
        difficulties. HFIC has applied actively in the course of the project for the investors of
        sub-project and apply flexibility appropriate for the actual conditions. Until now, the
        internal operational of HFIC have applied these rules not only in the sub-projects funded
        HDP’s fund but also other sub-projects funded in HFIC step-by-step, although not
        achieve the required high-level as HDP subprojects.

        Due to the difficulty of the Vietnamese economy as presented on the stage above, the
        completion of the project meet with some difficulties. Progress and disbursement value of
        the sub-projects as committed do not ensure complete before 31/12 /2012, but still may
        consider acceptable disbursement of completed volume before this time and expect to be
        disbursed in the first 04 months of 2013.

        About environmental issues: Besides the sub-projects have been completed and almost
        complete (04 sub-projects: waste water treatment plant Tay Bac Cu Chi Industrial Park;
        Khai Sang international school ; Canadian International School; Tan Tao residential
        house for workers), other sub-project is ongoing implementation and must continue to
        report periodically related to internal monitoring or external monitoring. About ending
        review the implementation of social security, because the sub-projects were made on the
        area of land that conducted in HFIC, the social safety do not occur in during
        disbursement of HDP. Business review of procurement package basically complies with
        the regulations in the Project Manual, and the investors of the sub-projects also take
        seriously all the time.

        For funded of HDP capital, the experts of the HFIC had more experience when working
        with the IDA-funded projects, meet both the financial management and disbursement of
        IDA. The technical assistance of the World Bank experts have helped to accelerate the
        reform process in HFIC, providing the foundation for other concerned donors (AFD,
        ADB, JBIC, KfW, etc.) to provide support for their financial based on the experience of
        HDP project implementation. HDP project also contributed to enhance capacity of HFIC
        in mobilizing private sector capital, diversification of sources of funding for
        infrastructure development and improving transparency in resource mobilization.

Evaluation of the World Bank task team

Implement cooperation projects is basically close cooperation and to have a responsible of Bank’s
Working Group with the management team of HDP project of HFIC. Also these difficulties in the
implementation process have been resolved quickly and simplify procedures in order to ensure
progress for the project. However, it should be further support immediately and confirm that
HDP project as well as the next LDIF projects need to have the care and support as a project
which the World Bank are implementing in Vietnam.

For the task team, this is a good collaboration during the past years with professional procedures
of operation, dedicated support in time in the process of implementation of sub-projects.
Beginning with consultancy, access profile has been supported , the field of investment, operation


                                               38
areas, the project review of process appraisal, disbursement plan bidding, as well as the
evaluation of the implementation of environmental safety, social security has always been the
enthusiastic support and timely.

Lessons learned and recommendations for similar projects (LDIFP)

At an execution time for almost 05 years, experiences in the implementation of the project shows
the points to be noted in the application and deploying similar projects in the future:

       Regarding the recommended portfolio of projects as initial development investment that
        suitable for technical infrastructure and social infrastructure of the city. However, the
        need to have flexibility in the application for the project in which priority projects came
        first that should be made before and should not also apply inflexible to meet the
        investment field as list recommended to (HFIC already have a time break for sub-projects
        when having no infrastructure investment projects on traffic).
       It should have the flexibility in accessing the project (for example, investment projects of
        warehouse served Coop mart outside the city but still meet the consumer needs of the city,
        etc.), as well as the consideration of selection of private investment in a flexible manner
        (scenario the investor IDICO-IDI: HFIC can not be funded for two flyover-crossing
        Provincial Route 10A, 10B).
       The application of the provisions of the Manual must meet prescribed on the rules,
        however, need to be coordinated flexibly according to each particular situation in order to
        solve problems in the implementation process, as well as responding to the procedures in
        accordance with the law of Vietnam (publish the information to the population groups
        and the minutes of the meeting held by the IHC project). Concerning to visiting the site,
        verifying after operation ... of the working group that should consider the appropriate
        arrangements to avoid duplication repeatedly and affect the operation of the sub-projects
        in the content to prepare the report, reception ... The opinions of the experts must review
        appropriate to the context and the actual situation of the Vietnamese people's lives
        (raising chicken under system of wastewater treatment plant of Tay Bac Cu Chi Industrial
        Park).
       Finally, the need for a system of specific review with charts reports, as well as a final
        evaluation report that should follow the form of HFIC as well as the more local
        investment funds make a report each year, periodic reports, final report for the case of
        LDIF project.


Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                                39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Amendment to Financing Agreement, Project Agreement, and Supplemental Letter No. 2,
International Development Association, March 29, 2011.

Country Partnership Strategy 2007-11, World Bank, January 2007.

Country Partnership Strategy 2012-16, World Bank, November 2011.

Final-term Assessment of Ho Chi Minh City Investment Fund for Urban Development Project,
HFIC, December 2012.

Financing Agreement between Socialist Republic of Vietnam and International Development
Association – Credit Number 4329-VN (Ho Chi Minh City Investment Fund for Urban
Development Project), November 16, 2007.

HDP Independent Procurement Review, World Bank, September 2012.

Local Development Investment Funds in Vietnam, Briefing Paper, World Bank, October 2005.

Mid-term Review of HDP Operating Activities, HFIC, October 2010.

Project Agreement between International Development Association and Ho Chi Minh City
Investment Fund for Urban Development – Credit Number 4329-VN (Ho Chi Minh City
Investment Fund for Urban Development Project), November 16, 2007.

Project Appraisal Document - Ho Chi Minh City Investment Fund for Urban Development
Project, World Bank, May 24, 2007.

Project Appraisal Document – Local Development Investment Funds Project, World Bank, May
22, 2009.

Project Manual for Ho Chi Minh City Investment Fund for Urban Development Project, HFIC,
2007.

Review of Lines of Credit in Vietnam, FPSD Draft Report, World Bank, June 2011.

Survey of Infrastructure Demand and Interest Market in Municipal Infrastructure Field in Ho Chi
Minh City, HFIC, February 2012.

Taking Stock: An Update on Vietnam’s Recent Economic Developments, Prepared for the
Consultative Group Meeting for Vietnam, World Bank, December 2012.

Vietnam: Aiming High, Vietnam Development Report 2007, World Bank, December 2006.




                                              40
MAP




      41
42
