Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13332-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 15, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of June 10, 1994)
Currency Unit     =            Won
US$1.00           =            W800
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
I meter (m)                         =            3.2808 feet (ft)
I square meter (sq m)               =             10.7639 square feet (sq ft)
I kilometer (kim)                   =            0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (sq km)          =            0.3861 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT                  Average Daily Traffic
CBD           =      Central Business District
EIA           =      Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR          =      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EPB           =      Economic Planning Board
ICR           =      Implementation Completion Report
KMPA                 Korea Maritime and Port Administration
KNR           =      Korean National Railroad
KOTI          =      Korea Transport Institute
LCB           =      Local Competitive Bidding
MOC           =      Ministry of Construction
MOE                  Ministry of Environment
MOF           =      Ministry of Finance
MOT           =      Ministry of Transportation
MOHA          =      Ministry of Home Affairs
MRT           =      Mass Rapid Transit
MT            =      Metric Ton
NBA           =      The National Board of Audit and Inspections
OSROK         =      Office of Supplies, Republic of Korea
PCG           =      Pusan City Governmnent
PCR           =      Project Completion Report
PUTA          =      Pusan Urban Transit Authority
SOE           =      Statements of Expenditure
TDM           =      Transport Demand Management
TSM           =      Transportation System Management
UTFP          =      Urban Transport Facilitation Plan
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Korea
Amount:              US$100 million equivalent
Implementing
Agencies:            Pusan City Government, Pusan Urban Transit Authority and Ministry of
Transportation
Beneficiary:         Pusan City Government and Pusan Urban Transit Authority
Poverty:             Not applicable
Terms:               15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
Commitment Fee:      0.75 percent of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing less
any waiver (0.25 percent effective for FY95)
Onlending Terms:     The same as the Bank Loan, including foreign exchange and interest risks, plus
a 0.05 percent administrative charge
Financing Plan:      See paragraph 3.18
Economic Rate
of Return:           The projects already committed for financing have rates-of-return above 15
percent, and the overall weighted average economic rate-of-return is 26 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 13332-KO
Map:                 IBRD No. 25727






REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Contents
Page
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT  ............................................    1
A. Transport Sector  ........           ..............1....................... 
B. Urban Transport Sub-Sector  ......................................                                      1
C. The Institutional Framework  ......................................    2
D. Key Issues in Urban Transport Sub-Sector  ............................      .                           4
E. Major Reforms Announced During.the Project Preparation Phase  ...............   5
F. Lessons Learned From  Past Bank Projects in the Sector  .....................    6
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement .....................                                                    7
II. PUSAN CITY TRANSPORT  ........................................    9
A. Background  ................................................    9
B. Pusan City Government .........................................   10
C. Pusan Urban Transit Authority   ....................................   10
III. THE PROJECT   ................................................   12
A. Project Objectives  ........          .............                .......................   12
B. Project Description  ............................................   12
C. Project Costs ................................................   15
D. Project Financing          ......................                 .......................   16
E. Project Organization and Implementation   ..............................   16
F. Implementation Schedule  ........................................   17
G. Procurement ................................................   17
H. Disbursement, Accounts and Auditing  .............                 ..         .................   18
I. Project Monitoring and Reporting  ...................................   19
J. Environmental Impact  ..........................................   19
K. Resettlement ................................................   20
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION   ........................................  21
A. Economic Rationale For Project Design  ...............................   21
B. Project Benefits  ..............................................   21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Korea during May/June
1994. The mission was comprised of Messrs./Mmes. Jitendra N. Bajpai (Task Manager and Urban
Transport Specialist), Lance Morrell and Benjamin Porter (Financial Analysts), John Cracknell (Urban
Transport Engineer), Manida Unkulvasapaul (Environmental Specialist), Milo Melrose (Railway
Engineer), and Bu-Yong Shin (Traffic Engineer). Richard Pratt, Samuel Zimmerman (US DOT) and
Soo-Man Chang made significant contributions during project preparation. The report was reviewed by
Messrs. Richard Scurfield (EA2TP) and Richard Barrett (ESDVP) as peer reviewers. Staff assistance
was provided by Ms. Bobbie Brown. It was cleared by Messrs. Callisto Madavo, Director EAI, Vineet
Nayyar, Chief, EAIIN, and Jeffrey Gutman, Chief, EAIIE (Former Chief, EAIIN).



- ii -
Contents (Cont.)
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION (Cont.)
C. Economic Evaluation ...........................................  22
D. Financial Evaluation of PUTA .....................................  22
E. Project Risks ................................................  28
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ........                         ..       ............  30
FIGURES IN THE TEXT
2.1  Revenue/Direct Expenses for Major Transit Systems  .....................  11
4. 1  Base Case: Recovery of Working Costs & Vehicle Depreciation  ..............  25
4.2   Base Case: Annual Debt Service Payments vs. Available Cash  ...............  26
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1 Summary of Cost Estimates                 ..15
3.2 Funds for Project Implementing Agencies             ..16
3.3 Summary of Procurement Arrangements                ..18
4.1 Past Financial Performance of PUTA (1990-93)            ..23
4.2   Projected Financial Performance of PUTA: Base Case  ....................  24
4.3   Projected Financial Performance of PUTA: High-Fares Scenario ..............  27
4.4   Projected Financial Performance of PUTA: Subsidy Scenario ................  28
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Projected Revenues for National Transportation Account and National
Urban Railway Subway Special Account .....           ...................  31
Annex 2:    Letter from Ministry of Transportation .........................  33
Annex 3:    Existing and Proposed Pusan City Parking Charges .................  35
Annex 4:    Estimation of PUTA Ridership and Car Requirements  ...............  36
Annex 5:    Institutional Development Component - Part 1 - MOT Training Program  ... . 39
Annex 6:    Detailed Cost Estimates        ................          ..................  45
Annex 7:    Pusan Transit Fare Structure Study - Draft Outline Terms of Reference  ... . 47
Annex 8:    Five-Year Traffic Demand Management (TDM) and
Transportation Systems Management (TSM) Program
Study - Institutional Component - Outline Terms of Reference  .     .50
Annex 9:    Implementation Schedule  ...............                 ..................  56
Annex 10:   Supervision Plan       ...................           ....................   57
Annex 11:   Project Monitoring Indicators ...............               ................  60
Annex 12:   Estimated Disbursement Schedule ...........          ..       ...............  64
Annex 13:   Environmental Impact Assessment ...........          ..       ...............  65
Annex 14:   Land Acquisition, Compensation & Relocation Program  ......            ........  70
Annex 15:   Economic Evaluation         .................          ...................  73



- iii -
Contents (Cont.)
ANNEXES (Cont.)
Annex 16:   Financial Statements ....................................  81
A. Base Case Scenario  ..................................  81
B. High Fare Scenario   ..................................  87
C. Subsidy Scenario  ...................................    94
Annex 17:    Selected Documents Available in the Project File  .......10........... 1
MAP: IBRD No. 25727






REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Transport Sector
.1          Within the limitations imposed by the country's mountainous terrain, Korea developed
a multi-modal transport network capable of supporting its sustained and phenomenal economic growth.
In the three decades since 1962, real GNP grew almost three-fold, and per capita income is now more
than 15 times higher. However, the pace of growth placed heavy demands on all infrastructure, including
those for transport, which often operate close to or at capacity. Despite the Sixth Plan (1987-91), which
focuses on increased efficiency, capacity and quality, traffic bottlenecks within the road network,
particularly along the Seoul-Pusan corridor, and congestion at the ports of Pusan and Inchon, which
handle most of Korea's trade, are now critical.
1.2          The Seventh Plan (1992-96) aims to: (a) change patterns of growth in transport
demand by promoting rail rather than road on major trunk routes and by shifting some traffic from road
to rail and urban subways as a means of decreasing the environmental damage associated with road
transport. The share of roads in total transport investment has dropped from 65 percent during the Sixth
Plan to 46 percent, whereas allocation for rail, subways, ports, and air transport are 24 percent, 11
percent, 12 percent and 7 percent, respectively, in the Seventh Plan; (b) relieve congestion along the
Seoul-Pusan Corridor; (c) expand financial resources for infrastructure investments by increasing
tax rates, introducing user charges, encouraging private investment, issuing bonds and seeking oversees
financing; (d) improve the land acquisition and compensation system; and (e) introduce regional
planning, under which five-year regional plans would be developed by local authorities in collaboration
with central government planners and coordinated with the National Development Plan.
B. Urban Transport Sub-Sector
1.3          In 1990, Korea's population was estimated at 43.5 million, of which 34.6 million were
urban, living in 246 municipalities. While the country's population growth rate declined to about 1.7
percent per year from 1970-80 and to less than one percent in the last decade, the urban population
expanded by 3.2 percent per year from 1980-87. As a percentage of total population, the urban
population grew from 50 percent in 1970 to 79 percent in 1990, and is expected to exceed 80 percent by
2000. Seoul (17.2 million) and Pusan (3.9 million), the two largest cities among the six with over one
million, size cities and where about one-third of Koreans live, grew annually by 1.9 percent and 1.54
percent, respectively, from 1984-90.
1.4          Korea's rapid economic development has outpaced the capacity of transport infrastructure
in most cities, and particularly in the six cities with populations over one million; this increased traffic
congestion, economic costs and environmental degradation. The principal factors contributing to the
imbalance are the unprecedented growth in vehicles and trip-making and the inability of cities and the
Government to meet the challenges of mobilizing resources, coordinating the planning and programming
of transport investments, and building institutions. With the continuing increase in income and living
standards, residential growth in the suburbs, and the development of a local car manufacturing industry,
nationwide vehicle ownership increased at an annual rate of 23.7 percent during 1984-90. Almost 42



- 2 -
percent of the total registered are concentrated in Seoul (34 percent) and Pusan (8 percent). In 1991,
vehicle ownership in Seoul and Pusan was 112 and 76 vehicles per thousand population compared to the
national average of 78 vehicles/1000 population. Although these numbers are low compared to those in
other countries at similar levels of economic development (Singapore 200 and Malaysia 101), their growth
is unparalleled.
1.5           To combat the congestion, Korean cities have invested heavily in building new roads and
upgrading existing ones, and at the same time have adopted, with the help of the World Bank, low-cost
measures such as transportation system management (TSM) to improve traffic flow and safety. Similarly,
to enhance the use of public transport, the Government has emphasized the construction of rail-based
urban mass transit systems in cities with over one million. Mass transit systems in Seoul (114 km) and
Pusan (32.5 km) serve about 3.2 million and 0.58 million passengers daily; and the third largest city,
Taegu, has recently started to construct a new system.  Financing this construction is one of the
Government's key concerns. Currently, through the Economic Planning Board (EPB) and the Ministry
of Transportation (MOT), it provides a matching fund (up to 30 percent of total capital) for urban mass
transit systems. In addition, there is a growing inclination to combat congestion through bus priority
measures and demand management mechanisms; these have included a progressive tax system for
households with more than one car, the introduction of a certificate system that proves the availability
of a garage for each new car buyer, the obligation for owners of new cars to purchase subway bonds,
the restriction on car use on dates matching the last digits of license plate numbers, and improved
management and pricing of public parking lots.
1.6           Urban transit fares (including private bus service and public mass transit systems) are set
by the Ministry of Transport (MOT), in consultation with the EPB, kept uniform across the country and
periodically updated. Bus service is completely private, whereas urban subways are run by public
corporations. Buses continue to be the dominant mode in large cities, followed by taxis (for example,
bus users represent 41 percent of the total travel market in Seoul and 45 percent in Pusan). To some
extent, private bus operators benefit from the Government-controlled low price of diesel (about one-third
the price of gas), but remain financially constrained due to the regulated tariffs, increasing wages and
declining productivity of their fleet in the face of rapidly growing urban traffic congestion. No joint
pricing policy exists among the bus and urban mass transit systems: Bus fares are flat and only vary with
the class of service (ordinary W270 and seat bus W600)'; urban rail transit fares are zone-based (the first
zone fare is W350 in Pusan and Seoul), and taxi fares vary by type of service.
C. The Institutional Framework
1.7           Local governments are responsible for managing urban transport, although the central
Government regulates the sector and offers financial support for certain infrastructure. In general, urban
transport related policies and functions are fragmented and distributed among several ministries and their
agencies. However, with the growing role of the central government in financing urban rail projects,
some effort has been made recently to coordinate and consolidate the policies in MOT's Surface Regional
Transport Division.
1.8           Central Government. The Surface Regional Transport Division of MOT, with its five
divisions (Planning, Policy, Operations, Urban Rail Transit and Traffic Impact Assessment), has the main
responsibility for setting basic policies and regulations for urban transport. In addition, it is responsible
for urban mass transit projects being considered for cities with a population of over one million. Since
'All buses have seats, but those known as "seat" buses are air conditioned and do not allow standing,
while riders stand and sit in ordinary buses.



other bureaus of MOT, such as the Korean National Railroad (KNR) and the Korea Maritime and Port
Administration (KMPA), can affect the various transport sub-sectors, MOT has an office of Transport
Policy Coordination for national planning and policy coordination among various agencies.
1.9            Among the other central agencies, the Ministry of Construction (MOC), the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MOHA), and the EPB, are the three most important in urban transport. MOC's
involvement is critical, considering its responsibility for planning, constructing and maintaining national
expressways, public housing and industrial ports; and MOHA offers grants and subsidies to cities and
counties for the county and provincial road programs. In order to coordinate the policies of these two,
which affect large metropolitan areas, a Central Metropolitan Transport Committee was created within
the MOT. Through this committee, MOT attempts to build a consensus among the ministries, mainly
for creating crucial legislation to deal with financial and regulatory policies affecting large urban areas.
The Committee panel mainly helps direct policy at the central level, but responsibility for translating it
into action plans remains with the ministries and local governments.
1.10          Since EPB devises the Government budget, various EPB committees, such as for
Industrial Policy and Economic Affairs, play a key role in setting priorities and programming for federal
investments in urban transport.
1.11          Local Government. In cities of over one million, the mayor, along with a transportation
policy committee (consisting of senior representatives of various agencies such as ports, railroads, urban
rail transit and aviation), regional local governments and provinces, develop the short- and long-range
transportation plans and investment proposals.  However, responsibility for project implementation
remains fragmented between the city and various agencies, thus producing problems of coordination in
the implementation of various projects, services, and supporting policies (such as multi-modal solutions,
integration between modes and land development). City bus and taxi services are administered by the
municipal government (for issues of entry and regulations). Local authorities also set parking fees and
policies, but in general follow national directives on inflation control and MOT guidance.
1.12          Also, large municipalities are unable to develop and implement an effective urban
transport management strategy. The urban transport facilitation plan (UTFP) is the key legal mechanism
that allows the Government to enforce the requirement for comprehensive and multi-modal planning at
the urban level. It is prepared by local governments, but, although it offers a mechanism for inter-modal
coordination and planning/budgeting for major transport investments, in reality it is weak.  Other
problems are its limited influence over the decisions of central agencies (rail, ports, highways, etc.),
constraints over the generation of tax-based revenues (no local gas tax exists), the concentration of
budgeting and regulatory powers with the Government, the lack of transport expertise, and poor
coordination among local governments of the metropolitan regions.
1.13          Financin2, Urban Rail Transit. To finance the urban rail mass transit program, the
Government established a special account in 1991 which was replenished through the allocation of about
10 percent of gas tax revenues and all the customs' taxes and duties on imported automobiles and their
parts. Between 1991-93, total resources allocated for subway construction increased sharply from about
W250 billion to W650 billion. Currently, the Government shares up to 30 percent of the revenues
directed to the capital costs of urban mass transit projects (the ratio of grants to loans was recently
revised, from 50:50 to 82:18). In 1991, MOT raised about WIOO billion from gas tax revenues and
W143.3 billion from import tariffs, and dispersed these funds among three cities: Pusan (W80 billion),
Seoul (WIOO billion) and Taegu (W70 billion). By 2001, it intends to allocate a total of about W20
trillion for the construction of 561 km of subways in six cities with populations of over one million



- 4 -
(Annex 1). In response to the Government's enormous task of mobilizing resources, MOT recently
increased gasoline and diesel tax rates (para. 1.21(d)) and asked local governments to increase their share
of the matching grants for subway projects. It is also seeking an overall increase in federal financial
assistance for mass transit projects.
D. Key Issues in Urban Transport Sub-Sector
Framework for Planning and Management
1.15          To effectively manage the worsening traffic conditions of the major cities, there is a
pressing need to improve planning and management in the urban transport sector. The current practice
is focussed on isolated supply-oriented measures with limited appreciation for demand oriented options
such as the role of pricing and user fees as instruments for managing motorized travel demand, generating
resources and encouraging efficient use of various modes. In addition, the current long term (20-year)
and medium term (5-year) plans do not cover all factors influencing a city's transport system and the
ranges of multi-modal transportation management and investment options dealing with travel needs, urban
growth and environmental policies. The practice of developing mode specific isolated solutions (e.g.,
construction of expressways with no consideration given to transit use, or building of subways with
limited integration with other modes and parking policy, etc.) needs to be replaced by a unified and
comprehensive multi-modal planning approach. The present project will demonstrate the merit of
introducing an integrated strategy of modal integration and transit capacity expansion within an improved
transit and parking pricing framework.
Role of Local Government in Urban Transport Management
1.16          The institutional framework for managing urban transport in Korea is fragmented within
and between levels of government. The responsibilities are, in general, split among mode specific
agencies with significant concentration of financing and regulatory powers at the central government
level. For the effective implementation of an integrated supply and demand oriented strategy, it is
essential that the responsibilities for planning and overseeing most local transport aspects such as transit
services, traffic management, public transport infrastructure/road planning and construction, parking
pricing and management, and transit/taxi fares setting, rest with one agency, preferably at the local level.
With the on-going democratization process and the growing complexities of urban problems, awareness
has been raised as to the need for decentralization of powers from the central to the local level and the
further enhancement of coordination and cooperation at and between both levels of government.
1 .17         In July 1994 the Government transferred powers to set bus and taxi fares to the provincial
governors, and in 1995 city mayors, according to a recent announcement, will be elected instead of
appointed.  The trend of increasing political empowerment at the city level will reinforce the
responsiveness of municipal governments to local needs and the effectiveness of existing
planning/programming practice. The present project recognizes that it is an opportune time to influence
this process by promoting a multi-modal vision and inter-agency coordination (e.g., coordination within
the transportation bureau and between the bureau and police, private transport operators and subway
authority) through the implementation of certain physical components, transport policy reforms and
supporting institutional aspects.
Urban Subway Financing
1.18          Urban subway financing raises fundamental issues with a significant impact on the central
government's plan for expanding subways in Seoul and Pusan and constructing new systems in four other



- 5 -
cities with populations over one million. Experience indicates that the current structure of financing
leaves a significant borrowing burden on the municipalities or operator. Despite high cost recovery that
ranks both the Seoul and Pusan systems among the top urban subways in the world in this regard, the
potential for servicing debt from internal resources is very limited. The lack of long-term capital markets
further exacerbates the problem due to heavy reliance on short-term borrowing instruments such as
obligatory subway bonds (5-year maturity with six percent interest). Two key issues to be addressed are:
(1) what are the alternatives to the current financing practice; and (2) how to restructure the existing debt
of subway authorities. This project has drawn the attention of both the EPB and the MOT toward finding
a lasting solution to the above issues, and stresses the immediate adoption of an appropriate debt
management strategy in the case of Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA) (para. 4.26).
1.19          Moreover, due to the financing of heavy and light rail based systems, the risk of sub-
optimal resource allocation can be high, particularly in cases where the opportunity for using non-rail
based technology and multi-modal solutions exist. The existing mechanism does not encourage the
implementation of a package of mutually reinforcing measures which would enhance the effectiveness of
committed urban rail investments, as observed in the case of the existing subway Line 1 in Pusan.
Urban Transport Pricing
1.20          Urban transport prices in Korea have been kept uniform throughout the country and
restrained in the interest of inflation control and income distribution by the central government. In
general, prices are below full cost both for cars and public transport. The high levels of demand induced
have been met by attempts to increase capacity. A review of urban transport pricing is overdue because
of their traffic restraint and investment financing potential. Despite low fares and restricted entry, the
performance of taxi and bus services have been better than might have been expected. In the case of bus
services which are totally private, the effects of low fares have been countered by limiting supply and
shifting to high price markets (from ordinary to seat bus service) rather than failure to maintain vehicles
or route shortening typically observed in constrained flat fare systems. A similar phenomenon is taking
place within the taxi industry where the shift is toward a new quality taxi service (deluxe). Though
existing urban rail pricing allows a self-sustaining operation, there is no clear pricing policy which
reflects a prudent financial goal, market-orientation or any externality based argument in favor of capital
subsidy. There is pressing need to address such issues as how to set market differentiated fares and
service balance between bus, taxi and subway; how to secure integration between bus and subway
services; how to ensure that the entry restraint does not yield monopoly profits for operators; and how
to control fares in general. The present project will begin a process for the setting of locally determined
transit fares and integrating bus and subway fares in Pusan (paras. 3.13 and 4.26).
E. Major Reforms Announced During the Project Preparation Phase
1.21          During the project preparation phase, and particularly following the unveiling of a
democratization plan by the new government in February 1993, the Korean Government (EPB and MOT)
announced certain key reforms to address the issues of decentralization and resource mobilization and
allocation within the urban transport sector. These initiatives include:
(a)    Five Year Action Program for Urban Transport: In September 1993, MOT declared
a five year Action Program for the Urban Transport Sector (1993-97), which strongly
displayed the government's commitment toward the expansion of transit service and
demand management actions. On the pricing side, the action plan enumerated the need
to decentralize urban rail, bus and taxi fare setting powers to local governments and the
liberalization of parking charges. Since PUTA is under the MOT, the plan stressed the
need for managing the debt level of PUTA.



- 6 -
(b)   Decentralization of Bus/Taxi Fare Setting Powers to Provincial Governors: The Law
Committee of the National Assembly amended the Transportation Business Act to allow
provincial Governors to have the power to determine and approve bus and taxi fares.
The law was enacted in July 1994 following its approval by the National Assembly.
(c)    Creation of a Special Account for National Transportation: In December 1993, the
National Assembly approved the abolition of existing separate special accounts for road
and urban rail, and created a combined multi-modal transportation special account called
Road and Other Transport Facilities Special Account. This initiative will eliminate the
practice of dedicated funding to road and urban rail projects by MOC and MOT,
respectively, and thus allow flexibility in the allocation of central government funds
among various mode-related (road, urban rail, high speed rail, port and airport)
investment programs. The major sources of revenue for the above special account would
be: gas and diesel taxes, special taxes on automobiles, import duties on auto parts, road
tolls, port duties, and airport duties (Annex 1).
(d)   Increase in Gasoline and Diesel Taxes: To enhance resources for the Road and Other
Transport Facilities Special Account, the Government announced an increase in gasoline
and diesel taxes from 109 percent and 9 percent to 150 percent and 20 percent,
respectively (W621/litre for petrol and W220/litre for diesel).
(e)   Differentiation of Traffic Attraction Fee Between Cities: Recently the Government
announced that the cities will be allowed the right to differentiate the locally collected
traffic impact fees (a special fee imposed on new developments) associated with large
development projects within a range of 50 percent upward or downward from the level
determined by the MOT (existing flat rate of W350 sq.m). The provision states that the
power to collect traffic impact fees will be extended beyond the 11 largest cities to cover
all cities having populations over 300,000. To encourage high occupancy vehicle use,
the above fee will be reduced for employers that adopt demand management measures
such as the provision of buses and carpools, and that participate in a staggered work hour
program.
(f)    Private Sector Participation: In March 1994, a privatization law aimed at encouraging
public-private participation in the building of infrastructure was introduced in the
National Assembly for passage this year.
F. Lessons Learned From Past Bank Projects in the Sector
1.22         Bank support to the urban transport sector has been provided through two projects
totalling $54.6 million. Both the Seoul Urban Transport Project (Loan 2514-KO) and Taegu Urban
Transport Project (Loan 2908-KO), were successfully completed and considered pioneering initiatives in
Korea with the large-scale introduction of TSM strategies to improve the safety and capacity of the urban
street system. Though the Bank has made eight loans in support of urban development since 1979, the
Kyonggi Regional Transport Project (Loan 2905-KO) and Pusan Urban Management Project (Loan 2801-
KO) directly addressed some of the critical issues of urban transport management in Seoul and Pusan,
including road capacity expansion, institutional coordination, road safety and planning, budgeting and
investment coordination for road projects at the city and metropolitan regional levels.



- 7 -
1.23          Project implementation in Korea has typically been good, with Bank projects being widely
viewed as having contributed to economic development. While there has been sustained success in the
transport sector in implementing the physical aspects of projects, progress on the institutional components
has sometimes lagged. In FY92-93, four project completion reports (PCRs) were prepared for Bank-
financed projects, including the Seoul Urban Transport Project (2514-KO), the Kyonggi Regional
Transport Project (2905-KO), the Seoul-Pusan Corridor Project (2600-KO) and the Third Pusan Port
Project (2726-KO). While each PCR identified issues specific to the project concerned, there were also
a number of common findings, as follows: (a) achieving institutional changes or financial restructuring
has been difficult, particularly when such changes, for example tariff increases, are outside the immediate
control of the project entity or there are strong social or political pressures against them; (b) since the
level of transport investment required to assist the country to continue its present pace of economic
development is beyond the Government's ability to finance, exploring new sources of financing for sector
investments has, therefore, become critical, with the Government seeking innovative options to encourage
private sector participation; (c) more attention needs to be paid to environmental issues, both physical and
social, to avoid costly project delays and poor investment choices; (d) decisions concerning investments
in transport tend to be based as much on social as they are on economic need, with visible initiatives,
such as capital construction being more popular than management or other efficiency improvements; and
(e) while domestic capacity to construct civil works is very strong, there is a marked weakness in the
implementation of advanced technology and computerized systems.
1.24          The recent developments in the sector have begun to address the above-mentioned
comments as evident from the urban transport sector specific reforms announced during 1993-94 (see
para. 1.21(d)). On the institutional aspects dealing with finance and tariff, although the tendency to
control tariff for taming inflation persists within the central government, the trend of decentralization has
already begun in the urban transport sector as is evident in the case of bus and taxi fares and traffic
impact fees. Additionally, two key project specific initiatives were implemented this year by MOT based
on the agreement reached in 1993 (Annex 2); (a) rationalization of PUTA's fare policy to maintain a fully
self-sustaining operation by increasing fares by about 35 percent in January 1994; and (b) implementation
of the 1993 debt management plan for PUTA. Moreover, the Bank's assistance in the area of financial
market liberalization has begun to create opportunities for the market based financing in the sector. There
is increasing appreciation for demand management actions in parallel with capital construction. Several
demand management actions are currently under consideration by large cities. This project is illustrative
of this initiative, given that Pusan City Government (PCG) has already revised public parking charges
and investment policies to promote transit use while inhibiting car use in congested areas. To address
the environmental concerns, the Government has put in place an effective and acceptable Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) procedure and an institutional framework to monitor all capital projects,
including urban transport infrastructure, before they are approved for implementation. The above actions
attest to the commitment of responsible agencies toward the creation of a favorable institutional
framework to manage urban environment and traffic congestion. The present project builds upon the up-
front initiatives of the concerned institutions and offers further impetus to the on-going reforms in the
urban transport sector.
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.25          Although large Korean cities are already constructing subway and road facilities to meet
the rapidly growing need for transport services, they must now realize the full potential of these
investments by following a comprehensive multi-modal strategy. The proposed project is a prototype of
how to make an urban rail transit system more effective through demand management measures and
modal integration along with key policy reforms in parking and transit pricing. Bank involvement in the



- 8 -
project is largely justified by the positive impact it would have on current Government initiatives designed
to address the rapidly deteriorating urban transport and environmental conditions as described in the
Country Assistance Strategy (presented to the Board on December 23, 1993). As it is one of the last
projects prior to Korea's graduation from the Bank in 1995, the aim is to send the right signals for the
future in the urban transport sector.



- 9 -
II. PUSAN CITY TRANSPORT
A. Background
2.1            Pusan, the second largest city in Korea, with a population of about four million and a
land area of 647 square kilometers, is the center of the southeastern economic sector. It is the site of
Korea's largest commercial port, which is the sixth largest in the world. Its urban transport network
consists of 1,828 km of roads, two intra-urban expressways, 10 tunnels, 229 bridges, and an urban mass
rapid transit (MRT) system of 26.1 km with 28 stations. Because of topographical constraints, roads
occupy only 13.6 percent of the city's land area, compared to 18.1 percent in Seoul, and over 20 percent
in large western cities.  The combination of substantial truck traffic generated by Pusan Port, the
increased auto ownership due to income and population growth (vehicle registration rose by 369 percent
between 1980-91), and the geographic constraints (steep mountains, narrow valleys, rivers, and the sea)
have resulted in extremely high traffic densities with severe congestion along well-defined corridors.
2.2            Until now, although the city (with help from the Government) has tried to ameliorate the
growing congestion--particularly with the construction of a mass transit system and urban expressways--
demand continues to outstrip capacity and traffic is severe along the east-west corridors; this affects the
city's economy, since access for residents in suburban communities in the east and west. At present, only
two tunnels and one road connect the central business district (CBD) to the area to the west, where much
of the growth has occurred and much more is expected. To the east, where growth has soared, land use
is so dense and roadways so limited that traffic engineering measures can have only limited effect. The
local bus system, run by 49 private operators with a fleet of over 2,500 buses, continues to be the
dominant transit mode (accounting for 45.2 percent of total trips2), but its capacity is stagnant and
eroding due to the traffic: For example, between 1987-91, the share of total bus trips declined from 57
percent to 45 percent, while taxis and MRT raised their market shares by 5.3 percent and 3.7 percent,
respectively. Further, bus and taxi operators are generally under financial pressure due to the regulated
tariffs and declining productivity. For its part, the MRT system operated by PUTA serves as the north-
south spine of the citywide transit system, but its capacity has yet to be fully exploited because its
services and those of buses have not been integrated. This same lack of integration has prevented private
bus operators from realizing the full potential for productivity gains that could be achieved through
improved bus-MRT transfers, restructuring of bus services and joint bus-MRT fare policies. However,
given the physical conditions, capital-intensive options for transport capacity expansion are unavoidable,
particularly in the east-west direction.
2.3            Parking is one of the city's chronic problems, particularly in the CBD and other sites
where jobs and retail activities are concentrated. Although the city is attempting to create more parking
space by providing public facilities and participating with the private sector, the existing parking policy
is neither effective nor sufficiently coherent to manage congestion. The problem is that parking fees
charged by public facilities are low, compared with private ones (only 1/3 to 1/2 the amount); and tax
exemptions offered to private providers of parking cause inefficient use of the city's resources, as they
perversely encourage car use, and to some degree, dampen the incentive to build private parking lots in
areas where public ones are available. In addition, as there are no restrictions on the use of MRT parking
facilities by non-MRT users, most public facilities near stations function as local parking lots and thus
cannot serve their purpose, which is to encourage subway travel.
2.4            Highways and the MRT are being expanded, but a more comprehensive scheme that
includes travel demand management and modal integration measures is needed (such as parking pricing,
2The others are MRT (7.7%). taxis (22.3%), cars (13.9%) and other modes (10.9%).



- 10 -
parking management, enhancement of transit use through integrated fares and improved services, physical
integration of various modes, restructuring of bus service, introduction of bus priority and other TSM
strategies); this should be introduced along with major infrastructure investments that could enhance the
effectiveness of new and committed investments and better manage congestion.
B. Pusan City Government
2.5           The city, which is one of the beneficiaries of the proposed project, is operated by 10
bureaus and over 60 organizational units with a total work force of about 20,500. The Bureau of
Transportation and Tourism (64 persons), created under an earlier World Bank project, has the sole
responsibility to plan, coordinate and implement all transport modes.  Although the city has been
reasonably successful in meeting the population's basic needs, it has a difficult time with the public's
transport demands, given the physical, institutional and financial constraints.
2.6           As a result of the National Urban Transportation Law, PCG has developed annual 5-year
and 20-year (2011) transport improvement and investment plans. Their main thrust is to develop inner
and outer ring roads, as well as port access roads and expressways (a total length of 195 km), and to
expand the MRT system. In addition, these plans would increase the supply of parking, bus priority
schemes, TSM schemes and a few congestion management measures (such as restricting car use to certain
days). However, due to the lack of in-house expertise in urban transport planning and management, and
a focus on major civil works that receive transport mode-specific funds from various Government
agencies (MOC for expressways, MOT for urban rail transit, etc.), PCG has not managed the problem
of traffic congestion well. For instance, opportunities for enhancing the use of existing infrastructure and
committed investments through low-cost congestion management measures have not been fully exploited.
Moreover, coordination in the planning and programming of investments and general management must
be improved in order to implement a coherent multi-modal transportation strategy as spelled out in the
short- and long-term plans.
2.7           The city's present financial status is sound: In 1991, it had 15 financially self-sustaining
municipal service accounts (totaling W827.5 billion) and a general account (of W705.1 billion). Taxes
on property, as well as on vehicle registration and acquisition, represent 55.4 percent of overall local tax
revenues. Moreover, despite the recent slow-down of the real estate market, general account revenues
have risen sharply over the past six years, mainly due to the introduction of tobacco and container taxes
(the latter are fully dedicated to the construction of port traffic-related roads). PCG has several planned
mega-projects consisting of new towns, housing and island development and related infrastructure, but
their implementation will greatly depend on private financing, since local revenue sources are limited.
C. Pusan Urban Transit Authority
2.8           PUTA was created in 1981 as a public corporation under the PCG to construct and
operate a rail-based urban mass transit system. The original plan was for a 138.5 km rail network of five
rail lines. To date, PUTA has opened 32.5 km that serves about 580,000 passengers each day. Line 2
of the proposed system (39.1 km) is being constructed in two phases: The first, between Hopo and
Somyon (22.4 km), is underway and scheduled for completion at the end of 1997. Work on Phase 2 is
scheduled to start in 1997 and be completed in 1999 (see map). However, in 1987, due to the City's cash-
flow problems, stemming from the short-term debt and foreign currency losses on the yen-denominated
loans used to finance the construction, PUTA was transferred to MOT under Law 3960 (passed by the
National Assembly). According to this law, PUTA will be transferred back to the city in the year 2008.



- 11 -
2.9           PUTA is a well managed agency of about 1,670 persons and operates 412 trains daily,
with headway ranging from 3-5 minutes, using a fleet of 216 cars. Its operations have been sound, with
ridership steadily growing at an average annual rate of 12 percent between 1988-93. In 1993, the system
served 204 million passengers. Its cost-recovery record has shown a consistent ability to cover direct
operating expenses; and, in 1991, the system even surpassed this threshold by covering rolling stock
depreciation (in addition to direct expenses) from internal resources. This year, PUTA's performance
is expected to surpass the 1991 cost-recovery mark due to a fare increase in January. Operating costs,
however, have risen faster than the rate of inflation, mainly due to rising wage levels.
2.10          In terms of finances, PUTA ranks among the world's top performing subway systems (see
Figure 2.1). However, its cash flow has been insufficient to service existing debt due mainly to the
Government's low equity participation and the heavy reliance on short-term borrowing. Until recently,
Government equity was limited to 15 percent of construction costs; but, in 1993, the shares of central
and PCG grants covered 25 percent and 20 percent of new construction, respectively. Also, in the
absence of long-term capital markets, PUTA has financed its debt from "obligatory subway bonds" (5-
year maturity with accumulated interest of six percent per annum), which new-car buyers must purchase.
The Government has recognized the problem with short-term borrowing and is currently considering
various actions to manage PUTA's debt situation (para. 4.13).
Fi2ure 2.1: REVENUE/DIRECT EXPENSES FOR MAJOR TRANSIT SYSTEMS
Parisri
London
Washington DC:,
San Paulo
Singapore                                                         -
Hong Kong
Chicagol
Pusan
Rio de Janeiroir
Tokyo
Atlanta
Direct expenses exclude depreciation and interest
New York ,
0            0.5             1             1.5             2             2.5
Revenue/Expenses Ratio
All US and European systems report combined statistics for bus and subway operations



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1           The project's overall objective is to promote the effectiveness of an urban rail transit
system in Pusan City, through demand management measures and modal integration and policy reforms
in areas of public parking and transit pricing. The specific goals are to:
a.    Increase ridership and cost recovery of the subway network through an integrated
strategy that includes transport demand management (TDM), the construction of inter-
modal facilities, and expansion of the transit system;
b.    Enhance PUTA's subway capacity so it can accommodate future growth and serve as an
alternative to auto use;
c.    Strengthen the institutions' capacity to plan and program urban transport investments.
B. Project Description
3.2           To meet the objectives, the proposed project will include the following components:
o     Component A aims to manage congestion and involves TDM measures, which consist
of parking and modal-integration facilities, and (TSM) actions for a bus priority corridor;
o     Component B aims to expand PUTA's capacity, through investments in new subway
cars; and
o     Component C presents an institutional development program.
Component A: Congestion Management
3.3           The project will initiate a system for managing Pusan's congestion that will encompass
a variety of incentives, disincentives and other actions to manage vehicle traffic in certain areas and
encourage the use of the subway and bus transport. Policies and measures will be implemented through
TDM and TSM; and the measures will be complemented by rationalization of subway and bus fares.
3.4           TDM: Parking Management. The first TDM measures involved changes in the parking
policy. On October 24, 1994, the City implemented revised parking charges and supply policies, which
now aim to discourage parking, and thus reduce the use of private vehicles in Pusan's most congested
areas; at the same time, the changes would encourage the use of public transport, notably the subway,
for trips to/from the central area. With respect to parking supply, the city will mainly channel investment
for new parking structures to the outskirts, in park-and-ride facilities. With regard to charges for
publicly-supplied parking, these have been increased to reach the level of private sector charges in the
most congested areas; in so doing, they will help restrict vehicle use. The revised public parking charges
cover about 13,000 car spaces in Pusan. Approximately 3,000 spaces will be involved in the congested
areas, which represent 23 percent of the total public supply. The rates vary by location, congestion level
and duration of parking: For example, hourly and daily charges in congested central areas have been
increased from US$1.60 and US$7.50 to US$3.20 and US$12.50, respectively (see Annex 3).  As the



- 13 -
implementation of these measures did not require significant financing, no project funds were necessary.
Moreover, the implementation of new charges was undertaken by PCG before the project negotiations.
3.5           TDM: Modal-Integration Facilities (US$27.98 million, 7.7 percent of project costs).
To improve subway utilization, the city will introduce modal integration that will allow passengers to
transfer more easily from one mode to another (including the subway, buses, taxis, cars and bicycles).
It will also expand park-and-ride facilities at selected subway stations along Line 1 (see map). Moreover,
the park-ride facilities will demonstrate the merit of measures that restrict parking to subway users only.
3.6           Nopo and Tongnae will be the priority sites. Nopo is located at the northern end of Line
1 and the scheme will include construction of a parking area for 350 cars, urban bus turn-arounds and
bus, taxi and car pick-up facilities. In the long-term, provision has been made to extend the scheme to
include private sector-financed express and inter-city bus terminals, bus parking areas and commercial
development. At Tongnae, located at a strategic east-west bus/subway interchange on Line 1, the scheme
involves measures that will create direct access for buses and passengers to the subway and new bus and
taxi pick-up points. The existing park-and-ride spaces will be increased to accommodate 175 additional
vehicles. New taxi and bus stops will connect with an east-west bus lane also to be financed under the
project. In addition, similar measures are being considered for Kyodaep (located at an important station
on Line 1) and Hadan (located at the southern end of Line 1), in order to improve subway passenger
access and interchange with buses and taxis.
3.7           TSM: East-West Bus Lane (US$2.18 million, 0.6 percent of project costs). Along with
TDM strategies, TSM measures are needed to improve the performance of the existing transport system.
For example, between the Mandok-ro in the west of the city to Chungyol-ro in the east (about 4.7 kms)
travel speeds are low, at about 14 kmth for buses and 16km/h for other traffic. Thus, the project will
finance TSM actions to provide bus priority on that road connection. The scheme will comprise: (a) peak
period with-flow bus lanes to carry about 150 scheduled and other buses per hour; (b) improved bus
stops; and (c) TSM improvements at major junctions along the route, particularly to facilitate buses. The
scheme is estimated to improve bus speeds to about 19 km/h, while the average speed of other traffic
would decrease slightly (about 2 km/h). It will be linked with the proposed Tongnae inter-modal facility,
as buses will gain improved access to the subway station.
3.9           5-Year TDM/TSM  Program  (US$22.8 million, 6.2 percent of project costs).
Comprehensive TDM will require a range of actions in addition to parking policies. Measures affecting
vehicle use (such as user charges, congestion pricing, incentives for transit use, carpooling, staggered
work hours, etc.) will be needed, and those already in place will have to be made more effective.
Similarly, more TSM measures involving, inter alia, bus priority schemes, need to be explored. With
this view, assurances were obtained at negotiations that PCG will undertake a "5-year TDM and TSM
Program Study" from which a comprehensive policy and action plan will be developed. From the study's
recommendations, PCG will develop a list of proposed investments and policies to be implemented
between 1996-2001. The proposals will be submitted to the Bank by May 31, 1996, and after agreement
has been reached on the content of the additional investments, the second phase of the study will begin,
in order to prepare the detailed engineering and tender documents for the construction and/or
implementation under the project. Project funds have been allocated for this study under Component C.
Component B: Expansion of Pusan Urban Transit System Capacity
3.10          Provision of Subway Cars (US$309 million, 85 percent of project costs). From its
opening in 1985, ridership on PUTA's Line 1 grew significantly, increasing from 99,000 passengers/day
to 580,000, in 1994.  Currently, severe overcrowding is the rule during peak periods (over 230



- 14 -
passengers occupy the space of an average rail car, which was designed to hold 125). Moreover,
ridership is expected to grow even more next year with the Line 1 extension, which opened in June 1994
(6.4 km). Phase 1 of Line 2, currently under construction, will connect with Line 1 at a station north
of Pusan's central area; and it is expected that a large number of passengers will change lines once the
new line is opened in early 1998. By 2001, PUTA's patronage is expected to reach 1.6 million
passengers/day.
3.11        To meet the travel demand, PUTA developed a provisional service and capacity expansion
plan that calls for an additional 310 subway cars by 1999. Of this number, 258 cars (43 trains of 6-cars
each) will be needed when Line 2 opens. The remaining 52 would enlarge 26 Line 1 trains from six to
eight cars each and thus handle normal traffic growth as well as the new ridership when Line 2 opens in
1998. Although PUTA's estimate of 52 cars is conservative, the number is acceptable, given the risk
of over-predicting passenger transfers between the two lines (see Annex 4 for estimates of ridership).
Component C: Institutional Development
3.12        Training (US$1.8 million, 0.5 percent of project costs). The training program will enhance
expertise at the national and local levels through an educational program of lectures and workshops. It
will also include the preparation of manuals. The following three programs will be carried out annually
from 1995-98: (a) Program 1, which will be national in scope, will cover transport planning, transport
economics and finance, investment planning and project appraisal, project management and monitoring,
public transport operations, TDM, and the legal and regulatory framework for transport. Participants
will be drawn from central and local government agencies. (b) Program 2 will include overseas training
to the masters degree level or its equivalent, for one or two senior transport specialists per year. (c)
Program 3 will provide training, especially for MOT staff, to familiarize them with emerging transport
management practices and procedures. All three programs will be financed from MOT resources (see
Annex 4 for details). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MOT will implement the training
sub-component and report annually to the Bank on its progress.
3.13        Technical Assistance (US$0.12 million).  TA  will involve one or two experienced
professionals full-time throughout 1995 and part-time for the next three years. The objectives will be to
advise and help PCG (a) identify, evaluate and implement TDM and TSM strategies and measures to be
developed from the "5-Year TDM and TSM Study," (b) supervise the project and consultants engaged by
the city to implement the study's recommendations, and (c) provide support and training in the sector.
The proposed TA program will offer impetus to the current proposal of creating a Transport Policy
Institute (TPI) within the PCG. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that PCG will appoint transport
professionals to assist Pusan in the traffic and transport sector and that the outline terms of reference in
Annex 5 will be finalized at that time.
3.14        Studies (US$1.5 million, 0.4 percent of project costs). The project will finance three
studies. PUTA will conduct the Pusan Transit Fare Structure Study, to develop a bus and subway fare
system that will improve cost recovery while maintaining equity among user groups. The study will
examine the options for integrating fares between buses and the subway and establish an analytical basis
for setting market-oriented fares. Given the on-going decentralization, it will serve as a demonstration
study for local governments which will soon be responsible for setting transit fares. The results will also
provide the basis for PUTA to revise its fare policy. Outline terms of reference for the study have been
agreed upon and presented in Annex 7. In addition, PUTA will carry out a study to identify alternative
long-term financing strategies for undertaking subway projects in Pusan City (see para. 4.24).



- 15 -
3.15         PCG will conduct the 5-Year TDM and TSM Program Study in 1995 (US$1.0 million, 0.3
percent project costs) to cover 1996-2001. The objectives are to define and plan additional TDM and
TSM measures. It will build upon the experience of the TDM parking policies, the modal integration
facilities, and TSM measures under Component A and will be conducted in two phases: (a) Phase I will
involve policy and feasibility investigations to develop a TDM and TSM program for Pusan, and (b)
Phase 11 will involve detailed design for measures agreed for implementation by the Bank and PCG.
Project funds have been allocated for the agreed measures.  Phase I of the study is targeted for
completion by May 31, 1996. Phase II will begin after agreement has been reached on the content of
the investments, and is targeted for completion by December 1996. Outline terms of reference for Phase
I are provided in Annex 8.
C. Project Costs
3.16         The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$365.4 million, including physical and
price contingencies. The estimated foreign exchange component is US$166 million or about 45 percent
of project costs. Taxes and duties are expected to account for 10 percent of total costs or US$32.9
million (see Table 3.1 for a summary of cost estimates and Annex 6 for details on each component).
3.17         The investments to be made in congestion management (Component A) are estimated to cost
US$52.93 million, subway cars (Component B) US$309 million, and institutional measures (Component
C) US$3.41 million. Physical contingencies and price contingencies are US$6.64 million and US$32.9
million, respectively. Price escalation of foreign expenditures has been taken at 2.5 percent per year over
the project period. Price escalations for Korean domestic expenditures are 5 percent for all years. Base
costs correspond to June 1994 prices. The cost of subway cars are based on PUTA's experience with
previous procurement. The costs of civil works and TSM are based on preliminary engineering designs.
The final design for civil works for multi-modal terminals and TSM schemes will be completed by
December 1994. Cost estimates for consultant services for final design and supervision are based on the
prevailing Korean formula (as a percentage of the works). The cost of the two studies in the project are
based on prevailing international rates for similar work.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATES
(in June 1994 prices in Won million and US$ million)
Local    Foreign    Total     Local      Foreign    Total     Loan Amt
Project Component                (W billion)                  (US $ million)         (US $ million)
Civil works                17.20      9.37     26.57       21.50     11.70   33.20          11.70
Desigin and supervision     0.81      0.21      1.02        1.01     0.26    1.27            0.00
Equipmenlt (including      99.87     99.22    199.10      124.84    124.03  248.87          82.50
subway cars)
Institutional development &  2.37     0.36      2.73        2.96     0.45    3.41            1.50
training
Physical contingencies      3.44      1.87      5.31        4.30     2.34    6.64            2.30
Price contingencies        21.71      9.54     31.26       27.14     11.93   39.07           2.00
Total (excluding tax &    145.40    120.58    265.98      181.75    150.72  332.46         100.00
duty)
Tax & duty                 14.30     12.02     26.33       17.88     15.02   32.90           0.00
Total                     159.70    132.60    292.30      199.63    165.74  365.36         100.00



- 16 -
D. Project Financing
3.18       The Bank loan of US$100 million, representing about 27.4 percent of the total project cost
(including contingencies and taxes/duties) or about 60 percent of the foreign exchange cost, will be made
to the Government and will be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of all project components
excluding studies. The loan would be onlent in amounts of US$17.5 million and US$82.5 million to the
PCG and PUTA, respectively, on the same terms as the Bank loan, including foreign exchange and
interest risks, plus a 0.05 percent administrative charge.  The remaining foreign and local costs,
US$265.4 million, will be financed by the Government. The proposed Bank loan would be for 15 years,
including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that subsidiary loan agreements between the Government, PUTA and PCG will
be concluded on terrns and conditions satisfactory to the Bank as a condition of loan effectiveness.
Table 3.2: FUNDS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
US $ (million)
EXPENDITURE                   PUTA                   PCG             MOT       TOTAL
Loan      Total       Loan       Total
Civil Works                 --         --       16.00      51.00        --        51.00
Equipment
Rail Cars              82.00     309.02         --         --         --       309.02
Traffic Management        --         --        0.50       1.92        --         1.92
Studies/TA                0.50       0.50        1.00       1.12                   1.62
Training                    --         --         --         --       1.80         1.80
TOTAL                    82.50     309.52       17.50      54.04      1.80       365.36
E. Project Organization and Implementation
3.19       The PCG, PUTA and MOT will implement the project. Under Component A, all civil
works, traffic engineering and installation of equipment will be supervised by PCG's construction
bureaus. Duties will include ensuring compliance with specifications for works and goods as well as
adherence to construction schedules, and testing and commissioning of completed works.  Under
Component B, PUTA will be responsible for the subway expansion (procuring subway cars). PUTA will
appoint consultants to conduct the Pusan Transit Fare Structure Study and the study for the identification
of the alternative long-term subway financing, both under Component C. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that by October 31, 1995, PCG will form a coordinating committee that will include (at least)
representatives of the bus operators, taxi operators, and the Chamber of Commerce to assist PUTA with
the execution of the proposed transit fare study. The committee will be chaired by the representative of
the PCG and will be responsible for reviewing and approving the study's draft TOR, the proposed short
list of consultants, and the selection of a firm to conduct it. The committee will meet regularly to review
the study's progress and prepare an action plan when it is completed, to implement the recommendations.
The PCG will implement and supervise the 5-Year TDM and TSM Program Study. Also, PCG will
appoint the TA professionals. All three project implementing agencies, PUTA, PCG and MOT, are
considered capable of undertaking the assigned tasks based on a review of their recent performance in
implementing similar tasks.



- 17 -
3.20       In Component C, MOT will coordinate training in consultation with the Bank. MOT will
seek assistance from national research institutes such as the Korea Transport Institute (KOTI), to
implement the training programs.
F. Implementation Schedule
3.21       The proposed implementation schedule will extend over the five-year period, 1995-99. The
completion date is expected to be December 31, 1999, and the loan closing is scheduled for June 30,
2000. The schedule is considered realistic in the light of the Bank's experience with previous projects
in Korea and the nature of the project. The implementation plan and schedule prepared by each
implementing agency is shown in Annex 9.
G. Procurement
3.22       All contracts for goods and equipment estimated to cost more than US$200,000 would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) according to Bank guidelines. Under ICB,
qualified domestic manufacturers of goods and equipment will be eligible for a 15 percent margin of
preference in the comparison of bids (or the prevailing rate of custom duties, whichever is lower). ICB
contracts will amount to 69 percent of the total cost and will include the procurement of 258 subway cars
for Phase I of Line 2 (US$250.3 million). Subway cars for Line 1 will be financed and procured by
PUTA using Government of Korea standard procedures for domestic equipment, satisfactory to the Bank;
Line 1 cars are estimated to be 16 percent (US$58.7 million) of project costs. Since traffic equipment
will be procured over the project period in packages estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$1.95 million, local competitive bidding (LCB) is recommended.
3.23       The Bank financed civil works will include the construction of modal facilities, bus lanes
and other TSM improvements, grouped in six to eight packages. Since the individual contracts are
estimated to be less than US$10 million, the LCB procedure acceptable to the Bank will be used for civil
works contracts, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$51 million. Foreign firms will be allowed
to bid for all LCB contracts.
3.24       Consultants for the studies, financed from the proceed of the loan, will be selected and
employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's 1981
guidelines for the use of consultants.
3.25       Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods would be used, with post-
qualification of bidders to assure that the bidders have the resources to effectively carry out the contract.
Draft bidding documents for the procurement of rail cars are being prepared by PUTA in cooperation
with the Office of Supplies (OSROK). During the project implementation, Bank-financed contracts above
US$2 million for works and US$200,000 for equipment will be subject to the Bank's prior review
procedures. This process will cover about 85 percent and 95 percent of total contract values for works
and goods, respectively. The prior review threshold for consultants' contracts will be US$100,000 for
firms and US$50,000 for individual contracts.



- 18 -
Table 3.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ millions)
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Methoda         Not Bank      Total
Financed      Cost
ICB       LCB        Otherb
Civil works                       --        51.00      --            --         51.00
[16.00]                            [16.001
Equipment:
Rail cars                     250.30      --         --            58.70     309.00
[82.00]                            [00.00]    [82.00]
Traffic-management related                 1.95                                1.95
[0.50]                             [0.50]
Training/TA/Studies               --        --          1.50          1.91       3.41
[1.50]       [0.00]     [1.50]
TOTAL                           250.30      52.95       1.50         60.61     365.36
[82.00]    [16.501     [1.50]       [0.00]   [100.00]
a. Figures in brackets are the amounts financed by the Bank loan.
b. Consultant services.
H. Disbuxsement, Accounts and Auditing
3.26       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as follows:
a.   Civil Works: 32 percent of total expenditure under Component A;
b.   Eguipment and Materials: 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of imported items, 100 percent of
the ex-factory cost (net of taxes) of locally manufactured items, and 65 percent of equipment
and materials procured locally (net of taxes);
c.   Consultina Services and Training: 100 percent of total expenditures (net of taxes).
3.27       Disbursements against contracts for consultants services and training below $ 100,000, goods
and equipment below $200,000 and civil works below $2 million would be submitted using statements
of expenditures (SOEs).  The documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the
implementing agencies concerned and made available for review by Bank supervision missions. All other
expenditures for contracts above these limits would be fully documented.
3.28       To facilitate disbursements, one Special Account of US$1 million would be established by
PCG at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. This Account would cover all expenditures of less
than US$100,000 for PCG. It would be replenished on a monthly basis or whenever the Account
dropped to below 50 percent, whichever occurred first. A schedule of estimated disbursements is
presented in Annex 12.



- 19 -
3.29       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) PCG will maintain its project accounts
and (b) PUTA will produce financial statements, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Such statements and audit reports would also include a separate opinion from the auditor on disbursements
made using SOEs and on any special accounts set up under the Bank loan. These statements and audit
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of each fiscal year.
I. Project Monitoring and Reporting
3.30       The Bank supervision mission plan is summarized in Annex 10. Project progress will also
be monitored through bi-annual progress reports submitted to the Bank by PCG and PUTA and annual
reports by MOT with respect to the components for which each is responsible. The focus of the
supervision in the first year would be on the procurement of works and subway car equipment and on
the three proposed studies. During implementation, particular emphasis would be given by Bank
supervision staff to monitoring PUTA's financial and operating performance, its adoption of
recommendations proposed by the Pusan Transit Fare Structure Study, study on the identification of
alternative long-term financing strategies, and the 5-Year TDM and TSM Program Study and its revision
of parking charges and park-and-ride practices. In the second semester of 1996, supervision will
concentrate on the TDM and TSM components identified in the study, for implementation under the
project. Not later than six months after the project is completed, MOT would prepare an implementation
completion report (ICR), with inputs from PCG and PUTA with respect to their components.
3.31       Monitoring will establish both the progress of project implementation and project
effectiveness. For the former, conventional indicators of the percentage of work completed or goods
procured will be compared to the project schedule. For the latter, it was agreed at negotiations with
PCG, PUTA and MOT (for their respective components), that the indices described in Annex 11 will
form the monitoring program. For the TDM and TSM measures (Component A), indicators will annually
measure performance and effectiveness by the extent to which park-and-ride facilities are used, the
amount of parking and revenues collected in congested areas, and the travel speeds of buses. Monitoring
of PUTA will determine two aspects of performance on an annual basis: (a) its financial performance,
through indices comprising operating revenues and expenses, working and operating ratios and debt
levels; and (b) its operating performance, through the measurement of ridership and boardings at key
points affected by the project.
J. Environmental Impact
3.32       With the focus on institutional reform, as well as low-cost measures to manage congestion
and expand transit capacity, the overall impact of the project on the urban environment will be positive.
The construction of inter-modal facilities will have a positive effect on air quality due to increased subway
use, in spite of some increase in traffic near these facilities. Moreover, the project will reinforce the land
development pattern around the proposed inter-modal stations and enhance transit accessibility for city
and suburban communities. Only at the Nopo station, which is located within the green belt zone and
where the project will expand the current facility to a multi-modal transfer station, will it be necessary
to revise the city land zoning.
3.33       Although the project will not be used to finance the on-going construction of Phase I of
Line 2, an EIA was prepared in compliance with the Basic Environmental Policy Law of Korea. The
EIA guidelines, issued by the Ministry of Environment (MOE), require, among other things, public
consultation prior to approval of such a project by MOE. Public announcements are made through
newspapers and public notices, and the EIA report is exhibited for public review and comments. Results
of the consultation are considered during the preparation of the final report and the comments and



- 20 -
opinions of individuals and concerned agencies are documented in it. The mitigation measures for the
negative impacts resulting from the construction of Line 2 have been applied since 1991 and monitored
by MOE's regional office. The EIA process and summary of findings on the above project have been
reviewed and found satisfactory (Annex 13). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by April 30
of each year starting in 1995, PUTA will submit to the Bank the monitoring results/reports which are
required by MOE for the operation of Line 1 and construction and operation of Phase 1/Line 2, including
implementation of the environmental mitigation measures identified in the EIA and approved by MOE
on October 28, 1991.
K. Resettlement
3.34       The project would not cause any resettlement. Although no project funds would be used
for the construction of Phase I of Line 2, the procedures for land acquisition and resettlement followed
(for this phase) were in accord with the Korean Laws, which were found to be generally acceptable by
the Bank (Annex 14). All compensation linked to the land acquisition and resettlement (US$79 million)
was completed by PUTA in June 1994.



- 21 -
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Rationale For Project Design
4.1         The underlying rationale for the project is to initiate a multi-modal urban transport
management strategy in Pusan that focuses on three key elements. First, public transport is required to
counter the severe imbalance between the available road space and the rapidly growing demand for it.
Given the geographical constraints to expanding the roads, and the limited potential to expand bus
capacity (due to the clogged streets), the subway will be pivotal to enlarging the overall capacity of the
transport system, limiting congestion and sustaining the economic function of the central city. Thus, the
project supports the enlargement of Line 1 capacity and the opening of Line 2 (Phase 1), which will offer
the best access between the west and central part of the city. At the same time, it would finance the
purchase of subway cars and the creation of a bus priority scheme along the main east-west corridor
(where there is no access to the subway).
4.2         Second, modal integration will be needed to enhance subway use; thus, the project will
provide inter-modal facilities with park-and-ride options at strategic subway stations. The objective is
to create convenient transfer opportunities between the subway and road-based access modes.
4.3         Third, it will promote pricing policies and related regulations as the way to manage travel
demand, resource generation and balancing the use of private and public transport modes. Raising public
parking fees (from US$7.50 to $12.50 per day) within Pusan's congested CBD is the first step to
reducing the disparity between public and private parking fees, to generating additional revenues, and to
introducing more realistic charges for those who elect to drive into the CBD (para. 3.5). Similarly,
PUTA/MOT have recently introduced a pricing policy for the subway that will ensure self-sustaining
operations (see para. 1.24). The recommendations of the proposed Pusan Transit Fare Study would help
authorities establish a framework for setting integrated and market-sensitive fares for Pusan's subway and
bus services.
B. Project Benefits
4.4         The project's main benefits are expected to derive from the increased subway capacity,
which, in turn, will reduce travel times and raise the level of comfort for existing and new riders,
particularly important for those diverted from their cars. By extending the length of the trains and
reducing the headway, Line 1 will be able to carry more passengers without significantly lowering their
level of comfort. Also, the opening of Line 2 (Phase 1) will extend the subway to large communities in
the western part of the city and offer additional capacity along the most congested corridor (the east-west
link between the mountains). Cost-savings will be realized mainly by new riders who switch from cars;
time will be saved by riders who transfer to buses, taxis, cars and bicycles, due to the introduction of
inter-modal facilities and park-and-ride services. Also, the east-west bus priority scheme will save time
for bus users (although other traffic may experience some minor decline in their travel speed) and costs
for bus operators using the priority scheme. The increase in public parking charges and parking supply
restrictions in congested areas will correct the discrepancy that now exists between the public and private
parking charges, and begin to discourage car use in congested areas. Moreover, according to PCG, the
city will gain an additional US$6 million annually through the new parking rates.
4.5         With respect to the institutional development component, the proposed actions will induce
a wide range of unquantifiable benefits such as: (a) the creation of a framework for setting fares that is
responsive to local needs; (b) improved financial management for PUTA; (c) an integrated multi-modal
approach to transport; and (d) enhanced capacity at the central and local government level to



- 22 -
plan/program urban transport investments, introduce cost-recovery mechanisms, and develop innovative
practices of demand management and modal integration. The project will serve as a valuable prototype
to other Korean cities currently considering or constructing subway systems.
C. Economic Evaluation
4.6        The economic evaluation and related sensitivity tests were carried out for the investments
under Component A. For Component B, which represents about 85 percent of total project costs, the
economic evaluation by MOT was reviewed and found satisfactory. In addition, a detailed financial
evaluation was made of PUTA's future operations, including the impact of investments in subway cars
and network expansion. The project component will finance the purchase of subway cars to meet future
demand at a desired service and comfort level for the existing Line 1 and the new Line 2 (phase 1). Line
l's performance was found to be sound and the on-going civil works for Line 2 are already more than
30 percent complete in budget terms (as of June 1994).
4.7        The decision to build Line 1 and Line 2 (phase 1) was based on a comprehensive two-step
evaluation: A system-wide analysis of alternatives was made, followed by a detailed technical and
economic feasibility study for each line and phase of construction. The economic internal rate-of-return
(EIRR) for Line 2 (phase 1) was estimated to be 27.7 percent in 1990 and the benefit-cost ratio was 1.7
at a 15 percent discount rate. The estimated benefits consisted of savings in time by riders (20 percent)
and vehicle operating costs, which were calculated by comparing the "with" and "without" project
scenarios. Although basic inputs and assumptions underlying the economic evaluation changed during
the construction period (including motorization rates, cost of travel by various modes, land use and
project costs), the benefits will be higher than anticipated due to the increasing severity of congestion
along corridors served by the line and limited access to the city from the western communities where new
development has occurred at an accelerated pace. Based on the high EIRR, the project focused on the
financial impact of Line 2 (phase 1) on PUTA's future operations.
4.8        The economic evaluation and sensitivity tests were carried out separately for investments
under Component A to build the Nopo and Tongnae modal-integration facilities and the east-west bus
lanes (see Annex 15). With regard to the facilities, the project life was considered to be 25 years; the
quantified benefits consisted mainly of transfer time-savings for subway riders using various station
access/egress modes and reduced travel times and costs for park-and-ride users. The economic evaluation
indicated that the EIRR was in excess of 15 percent for both modal interchange facilities under various
scenarios. Assuming a project life of five years for the bus lanes and associated traffic improvements,
the sensitivity analyses indicated economic internal rates of return (EIRRs) in a range of 25 percent - 66
percent.
4.9        The congestion management component (Component A) will consist of a series of other
investments to be identified under the 5-Year TDM/TSM Program Study. These sub-projects will be
evaluated according to an agreed methodology. No project will be implemented with economic returns
of less than 12 percent. For small investments related to traffic management measures (less than
US$500,000), cost effective, technical evaluations will be applied. PCG will prepare feasibility and
economic analyses on each sub-project, for approval by the Bank before implementation.
D. Financial Evaluation of PUTA
4.10       The financial evaluation addressed PUTA's ability to fund the construction and subsequent
operation of Lines 1 and 2. It considered: (a) PUTA's ability to cover working costs and vehicle
depreciation from internal sources; and (b) its ability to service both existing debt and new obligations



- 23 -
it assumed to finance the construction program. Its capacity to do so was assessed in the context of
PUTA's historical, current and anticipated financial performance.
Past Financial Performance
4.11       PUTA's past financial performance exhibits two consistent trends--an excellent operating
performance and a weak capital structure. The former is affected favorably by a strong transit market:
Ridership has increased steadily although service has expanded very little. This enables PUTA to achieve
a healthy working ratio (i.e., direct operating costs divided by operating revenues).  As noted in
Figure 2.1, PUTA's working ratio was better than that of most urban transit systems in the world except
Hong Kong and Singapore; in 1993, it came very close to covering vehicle depreciation costs from
operating revenues, in addition to its working costs.
Table 4.1: PAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF PUTA (1990-93
Annual
1990        1991        1992        1993    increase %
Ridership (000s)                 176,060     181,877    192,084    203,704           5.0%
Track Kilometers                    26.1        26.1        26.1        26.1         0.0%
Operating Revenues ( Won         30,841       40,157      43,587     49,474         17.1%
mil.)
Operating Expenses (Won          48,375       53,233      60,278      65,547        10.7%
mil.)
Working Ratio                     93.8%        82.7%      92.5%       88.7%
Operating Ratio                  156.9%       132.6%     138.3%      132.5%
Recovery of Working Costs
& Vehicle Depreciation          92.6%       104.7%       95.7%      99.5%
Rate of Return                   (2.3%)       (1.7%)      (2.2%)     (2.1%)
Debt Service (times)                1.17        0.88        1.15        1.03
4.12       The above results indicate that PUTA's cash flow is only marginally able to service existing
debt. This is important because the debt service ratio not only considers PUTA's internal sources, but
also subsidies from the Government and PCG, and proceeds from "subway bonds," whose value varies
with the price of the car. PUTA benefits from this arrangement by paying a below-market interest rate
(six percent) and deferring interest and principal payments until the bond matures (at the fifth year). This
arrangement has worked fairly well because motorization rates have climbed rapidly, with the result that
debt service has declined slightly over the last four years. Financial statements that support the above
summary are presented in Annex 16.
Current Financial Position
4.13       PUTA and the MOT have implemented a debt management plan to correct some of the
PUTA's financial weaknesses. For example, fares were raised in February, 1994 to an average of W321



- 24 -
(US$0.40), which should enable PUTA to achieve a working ratio of 77 percent for this year. The mid-
point fare elasticity was observed to be approximately -0.04 relative to first-quarter 1993 ridership (or -
0.177 after allowing for normal growth), which is encouraging, given the magnitude of the increase.
4.14       A second aspect of the plan is greater equity participation by the Government and City of
Pusan in the construction of Line 2. The Government will now fund 25 percent of construction costs with
a cash grant, as opposed to the 15 percent it previously contributed. In addition, it committed W60
billion per year for debt service on existing obligations. For its part, the PCG will contribute 20 percent
to new construction in the form of cash grants.
4.15       Although these developments are positive, PUTA still faces a difficult situation with respect
to debt management, since approximately W1,137 billion in existing debt is due by 2000. Even with the
W60 billion recently pledged by the Governrment, funds are insufficient to meet these obligations.
Moreover, cash shortfalls will be exacerbated by the use of short-termn debt to finance the bulk of Line 2
construction: Approximately 55 percent of new construction is to be financed with 5-year bonds bearing
12.5 percent annual interest, with a lump sum principal payment at term. Thus, interest payments will
be substantial during the construction period, and some of the principal will come due, as well.
Future Financial Perfonnance
4.16       PUTA's future financial condition was evaluated with a model that considers all sources and
uses of funds from 1994-2007. The key inputs to the model included: (a) construction cost estimates
from PUTA for the Line 1 extension and for Line 2; (b) rail car cost estimates based on the procurement
schedule and current unit costs; (c) ridership forecasts (see Annex 4); (d) bi-annual fare increases of
roughly 10.25 percent (or five percent per year) to keep pace with inflation; (e) existing labor
productivity rates and unit costs for operations and maintenance (the latter escalated at about five percent
per year); and (f) cash and borrowing assumptions identified in the MOT's debt management plan for
PUTA. For the base case (presented immediately below), Phase 1 of Line 2 was assumed to open in
mid-1998, and Phase 2 in mid-2001. The Phase 2 completion date is later than PUTA's estimate, but
appears reasonable in light of the status of construction. Given these assumptions and allowing for
adequate working capital, the results for this base case are shown in Table 4.2 for selected years. The
underlying financial projections are presented in Annex 16.
Table 4.2: PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF PUTA: BASE CASE
1993          2000          2007         Average
Annual %
Ridership (000s)                 203,704       446,383        670,941           8.9%
Track Kilometers                    26.1           54.9          71.6           7.5%
Operating Revenue (mil.)          49,474        200,769       401,254          16.1 %
Operating Expense (mil.)          65,547       216,476        399,110          13.8%
Working Ratio                     88.7%          72.1%         70.9%
Operating Ratio                  132.5%         107.8%         99.5%
Recovery of Working Costs                         118.9       124.1%
& Vehicle Depreciation          99.5%
Rate of Return                    (2.1%)        (0.9 %)         0.1 %
Debt Service (times)                1.03           1.00          1.00



- 25 -
4.17        These results indicate that PUTA would be able to maintain or marginally improve its
already favorable operating performance. As shown in Figure 4.1, operating revenues are projected to
stay slightly above the sum of working costs and rail car depreciation. And, although the transit market
in Pusan could potentially absorb higher fares and thus produce higher revenues, the rate of increase
assumed in the base case (10.25 percent biannually) seems more practically attainable.
Figure 4.1: BASE CASE: RECOVERY OF WORKING COSTS & VEHICLE DEPRECIATION
400,000
350,000
300,000
.~250,000                                                   .           -    Raikcaf Depred2ationl
Word&v costs
200,000
0   0   0   0   0   0   c   O            g   8   O~~~~~~~~pertig Fevnu
150,000
4 0.,000 Th   aia   iacngpcueofr     sakcnrs  oPNote. A'sR r dpositaon is
cauiuAetiie  on a d pluovermnt-
Cost basis. Woeln 19g COS5S
50,000ts prior to completion of construction in 2001. The financial projertor to operatng cos e less
0low shortages wuld be financedwith additionalshort-termdebt   However, suchd a pproMwn.
-r      0 to   to  O"  CD        Cy              (0co
a,  c   m~    Om         CD     CD  0   0           
0~  O~  O~  O~  O C0   0   0     
4.18         The capital financing picture offers a stark contrast to PUTA's positive operating
performance (see Figure 4.2). The base case scenario requires a substantial amount of cash from
unidentified sources to sustain a positive cash flow. First, PUTA's internal funds plus government
subsidies are insufficient to pay principal and interest payments on current debt between 1995-98.
Second, the use of short-term debt to finance the bulk of Line 2 construction results in high debt service
payments prior to completion of construction in 2001. The financial projections assume that these cash-
flow shortages would be financed with additional short-term debt.  However, such a practice would
rapidly escalate outstanding debt beyond reasonable limits. Alternatively, c-ash flow shortages could be
avoided if additional subsidies were provided from either the Goverrnment or the PCG.
4.19        These capital financing problems suggest two types of solutions. First, it is clear that
additional cash is needed to meet existing debt-service obligations between 1995-98. Given the base case
demonstrates the futility of additional borrowing to meet these needs, the basic options are higher fares
or additional government subsidies. Second, if PUTA had access to long-term bonds (e.g., 20-year
maturity), annual debt-service payments would be much lower. These solutions are analyzed in the
Sensitivity Analysis section which follows.



- 26 -
Fi2ure 4.2: BASE CASE: ANNUAL DEBT SERVICE PAYMENTS vs. AVAILABLE CASH
1,400,000
1,200,000
1,000,000o                                                                   Shor-Ternm Debt
Subway Bondis
Construction Debt
E
600,00
o   600,000   ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~Existing Debt
400,000                                                                      Availale Cash
WAvaW4be Cash'is Om~ amounTt
200,0W00_                                                            A    O 
reairnalQ Ifrom an sources.
except short-termn debL after
0                                                            operatinga ciaI Outays
VW  tn     P.            0               I        C        haeC been nmae.
C  X                         " Q  0 0     IC,       0 l
ot      G             0   0   0            0 g   g
_ N   N   N X           N N   N
Sensitivity Analysis
4.20         The sensitivity analysis considers two strategies to improve PUTA's future financial
conditions. Both incorporate long-term debt instruments to finance construction; it was assumed that
long-term bonds would have a maturity of 20 years and bear 10 percent annual interest, with the principal
being amortized evenly over the final 15 years of the term. However, the two differ in how PUTA's
additional cash needs are to be met. The first relies on higher fares, while the second leaves fares as they
are in the base case, and assumes that additional government subsidies would be available from 1995-98
to help meet debt-service payments on existing loans. These strategies can be viewed as representing the
extremes of the options that could be reasonably considered to improve PUTA's financial position.
4.21         The fare strategy rests on the maximum passenger fare revenue that can be generated, given
the ridership forecasts presented in Annex 4 and a fare elasticity of -0.177. Under this scenario, fare
revenues could potentially cover all operating costs, and could go a long way toward covering debt
service, as well (see Annex B). However, cash shortfalls during the construction period will necessitate
additional borrowing. Thus, the debt and associated interest payments would far exceed passenger
revenues in the long run. Also, the impact on ridership is rather extreme: In 2002, the fares (W1,042)
would be roughly three times higher than in the base case (W338), and would produce a 37 percent loss
in ridership. Thus, while higher fares could contribute to improving PUTA's financial position, they are
not the sole solution and would have to be considered in light of their impact on ridership.



- 27 -
Table 4.3: PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF PUTA: HIGH-FARES SCENARIO
1993         2000           2007        Average
Annual %
Ridership (000s)                203,704        327,170       535,502           7.1%
Track Kilometers                   26.1           54.9          71.6           7.5%
Operating Revenue (mil.)         49,474        290,190       571,044          19.1%
Operating Expense (mil.)         65,547        216,476       399,110          13.8%
Working Ratio                     88.7%         49.9%         49.8%
Operating Ratio                  132.5%         74.6%         69.9%
Recovery of Working Costs
& Vehicle Depreciation          99.5%          171.9       176.6%
Rate of Return                   (1.2%)          4.2%          8.4%
Debt Service (times)                1.03          1.00          1.00
4.22       The subsidy scenario uses a combination of long-term debt and additional government
subsidies to improve PUTA's financial position. As in the base case, the Government and PCG would
help cover construction costs as described in the December, 1993 debt management strategy. In addition,
this scenario assumes annual payments by the Government or PCG as follows: W170 billion in 1995;
W40 billion in 1996; W50 billion in 1997; and W110 billion in 1998. This would allow PUTA to
emerge from the construction period in relatively good financial condition and avoid approximately W600
billion of the W966 billion accumulated shortfall.
4.23       In the subsidy scenario (see Table 4.4), the principal improvement relative to both the base
case and the high-fare scenario is in debt management. At 2007, this scenario shows a reasonable debt
service coverage (see Annex C) and the cash flow is also positive. Although the Government and PCG
outlays are higher in this scenario than in the base case, total outlays are substantially lower--W8,063
billion in this scenario versus W12,130 billion in the base case. This reflects the avoidance of interest
costs associated with borrowing to meet cash flow needs, as well as the lower interest costs associated
with long-term construction financing. These results would improve slightly if the sale of long-term
public bonds were complemented with use of the Government Financing Fund, which provides below-
market interest rates for long-term financing of public projects.



- 28 -
Table 4.4: PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF PUTA: SUBSIDY SCENARIO
Average
1993          2000          2007        Annual %
Ridership (000s)                 203,704        446,383       670,941           8.9%
Track Kilometers                    26.1           54.9          71.6           7.5%
Operating Revenue (mil.)          49,474        200,769       401,254           16.1 %
Operating Expense (mil.)          65,547        216,476       399,110           13.8%
Working Ratio                     88.7%          72.1%          70.9%
Operating Ratio                   132.5 %       107.8%         99.5%
Recovery of Working Costs
& Vehicle Depreciation          99.5%         118.9%         124.1%
Rate of Return                    (1.2%)         (0.9%)         0.1%
Debt Service (times)                1.03           0.99          1.23
4.24       The results of the sensitivity tests show that three courses of action are necessary to sustain
and improve PUTA's prospective financial position. First, PUTA can retain a healthy working ratio by
making relatively small changes in fares that are indexed to inflation. Second, PUTA must receive
additional cash during 1995-98 to cover existing debt-service obligations; this will have to come in large
part from either the Government or the PCG, since fare increases alone would be insufficient. Third,
it is essential that PUTA have access to long-term debt instruments to finance the construction of Line
2. This would minimize cash outlays during construction, and would more closely match the timing of
payments with the timing of benefits produced by the new facilities. However, no market exists for long-
term bonds in Korea, so the Government plans to take actions to bolster investor confidence in long-term
Government bonds. This project will not specify the nature of these actions, but assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the PUTA, under the overall supervision of MOT and in consultation with
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and EPB, will complete a study before March 31, 1996 to identify
alternative long-term financing strategies for undertaking subway projects in Pusan.
E. Project Risks
4.25       The primary project risks are the delays and political reluctance to address PUTA's tariff
levels and issues related to debt management. The record of operations, ridership and working ratio
(direct expenses to revenue ratio) places PUTA in a very favorable position, and its potential for
maintaining a self-sustaining and healthy operation is thus high. However, regular tariff revisions will
be critical to maintain a self-sustaining operation. The debt management issue will remain a risk, but it
is less likely to affect operations because PUTA's financial obligations are serviced by the Government.
Any failure to manage the issue of short-term borrowing will produce a cycle of debt from which it would
be difficult for PUTA to recover, and thus jeopardize the plan for transferring PUTA to the PCG by
2008. MOT and EPB acknowledge the implication of the current policy on the overall subway expansion
plan, and have shown their commitment to reducing PUTA's debt. Implementation of the 1993 debt



- 29 -
management plan, which included almost a 35 percent increase in fares and payment of principal and
interest, attests to the Government's commitment to dealing with this issue. Moreover, the findings of
the above mentioned study on the long-term financing strategies will form the basis for a continuous
dialogue between the Bank and MOT/PUTA on the preparation of annual debt management plans for
PUTA during the project period. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) PUTA shall, by
October 31, 1994 of each year, commencing October 31, 1995 and thereafter, exchange views with the
Bank on its proposed annual debt management plan, and investment plan and budget for the forthcoming
fiscal year, and thereafter taking into account the Bank's comments, finalize such plans and budget; and
(b) PUTA's fare structure and operating expenses will be adjusted as needed for each of its fiscal years
after December 31, 1995, to ensure that the total revenues from operations exceed the sum of working
or direct expenses, depreciation of equipment and rolling stock and provide a reserve for the replacement
of equipment and rolling stock. A list of "Project Monitoring Indicators" has been defined (see Annex
11) to provide continuous feedback on PUTA's performance; thus, the Bank can engage in dialogue with
PUTA, MOT and EPB to find remedial measures for any problems that may emerge.
4.26       The operational success of the proposed East-West bus lane will greatly depend on the
enforcement of the traffic rules, particularly the prohibition on vehicles other than buses using the bus
lanes. To minimize the risk associated with poor enforcement, input from the traffic police department
of Pusan was sought throughout the project preparation phase. Moreover, the Bank will monitor the
performance of the bus lanes through field visits and will continue to consult with the traffic police
department on the enforcement issues that may arise during the project period.



- 30 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1        At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that:
a.   PCG will undertake a "5-Year TDM and TSM Program Study' from which a comprehensive
policy and action plan will be developed. Based on the study's recommendations, PCG will
develop a list of proposed investments and policies to be implemented between 1996-2001.
The proposals will be submitted to the Bank by May 31, 1996, and after agreement has
been reached on the content of the additional investments, the second phase of the study will
begin, in order to prepare the detailed engineering and tender documents for the
construction and/or implementation under the project (para. 3.9);
b.   MOT will implement the training sub-component and report to the Bank annually on the
progress of this program (para. 3.12);
c.    PCG will appoint transport professionals to assist Pusan in the traffic and transport sector;
outline terms of reference in Annex 5 will be finalized (para. 3.13);
d.   PUTA will implement the proposed Pusan Transit Fare Structure Study (para. 3.14). By
October 31, 1995, PCG will form a coordinating committee that will include (at least)
representatives of the bus operators, taxi operators, and the Chamber of Commerce to assist
PUTA with the execution of the proposed transit fare study (para. 3.19);
e.    PCG's project accounts and PUTA's financial statements will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Such statements and audit reports would also include a
separate opinion from the auditor on disbursements made using Statements of Expenditures
(SOE) and on any Special Accounts from the Bank loan. These statements and audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of each fiscal year (para.
3.29);
f.    PUTA will submit to the Bank by April 30 of each year, starting in 1995, the monitoring
results/reports which are required by MOE for the operation of Line 1 and construction and
operation of Phase 1/Line 2, including implementation of the environmental mitigation
measures identified in the EIA and approved by MOE on October 28, 1991 (para. 3.33);
g.   PUTA, under the overall supervision of MOT and in consultation with the MOF and EPB,
will complete a study before March 31, 1996 to identify alternative long-term financing
strategies for undertaking subway projects in Pusan (para. 4.24); and
h.   PUTA shall, by October 31, 1994 of each year, commencing October 31, 1995 and
thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on its proposed annual debt management plan, and
investment plan and budget for the forthcoming fiscal year, and thereafter taking into
account the Bank's comments, finalize such plans and budget. PUTA's fare structure and
operating expenses will be adjusted as needed for each of its fiscal years after December 31,
1995, to ensure that the total revenues from operations exceed the sum of working or direct
expenses, depreciation of equipment and rolling stock and provide a reserve for the
replacement of equipment and rolling stock (para. 4.25).
5.2        An understanding was reached with PCG, PUTA and MOT that the indices described in
Annex 11 will form the monitoring program (para. 3.31).



- 31 -
5.3        Government will submit the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government, PUTA
and PCG that will be concluded on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank as a condition for loan
effectiveness (para. 3.18).
5.4        Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$100 million equivalent for a period of 15 years, including a grace period of
five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The borrower will be the Republic of Korea.



- 32 -                                   Anex I
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Projected Revenues for National Transportation Account
(Units: 100 Billion Won)
1994C  1998-   Grand
Sources        13       1994     1995     1996      1997     199      2001     T6tl
Total               23.91    41.73    48.37    54.33    60.70   205.14   308.50   537.57
Transportation Tax  17.44    32.24    37.60    42.49    47.60   159.95   243.02   420.41
Gas           15.13    25.99    30.59    34.94    39.62   131.15   202.27   348.56
Diesel         2.31     6.25     7.00      7.55     7.98    28.79    40.74    71.85
Special Tax on       5.07     5.76     6.62      7.30     7.98    27.68    38.85    71.61
Autos
Import Duties on     1.25     0.78     0.78     0.78      0.78     3.13     3.13     7.52
Automobiles and
Parts
Miscellaneous        0.15     2.93     3.35      3.75     4.32    14.37    23.48    38.01
Projected Revenues for National Urban Railway Special Account
_(Units: 100 Billion Won)
Sourcest              1994      1995      1996       19        2001      Towtal
Allocation of Transport Gas       4.35       5.08      5.74      6.43      32.81     54.41
Tax Revenues (13.5 % share)
Tariff on Autoparts               0.78       0.78      0.78      0.78       3.13      6.26
Principal/Interest                0.21       0.26      0.26      0.34       1.36      2.44
Withholdings for Government       1.15       -         -          -         -         1.15
Loan
Total Revenues                    6.50       6.12      6.78      7.55      37.31     64.27



-33 -                            Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
SEOUL KOREA
May. 31 1993
Mr. Callisto Madavo
Director,
Country Depart. I
East Asia and Pacific Region
The World Bank
Washington, D. C. 20433   U.S.A
Dear Mr. Madavo
We wish to confirm our support for the proposed PUSAN Urban
Transport management project and to inform you that we share
your concern about the financial condition of the Pusan Urban
Transit Authority (PUTA). We are presently considering various
measures which will ensure the long term financial viabilty
of PUTA. The two major issues regarding fare policy and the
debt structure of PUTA, however, must be seen as part of a
broader government effort to improve urban transport across
the country.
With regard to PUTA, we intend to promote a fare policy which
will ensure that fare revenues cover at least the direct oper-
ating costs of PUTA and the depreciation of the rolling stock,
as they do at present, we are also considering the possible



-34 -                            Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
decentralization of local transport fares in a broader attempt
to promote economic efficiency and financial accountability. We
would be willing to discuss the various options with the Bank
during the preparation and implementation of the proposed project.
With regard to the debt structure of PUTA, we intend to prepare
a draft plan for improving the financial health of PUTA by
November 1993 in consultation with the relevant government agencies.
Again we would be willing to discuss the plan with the Bank and
the issues regarding subsequent adoption and implementation.
We hope you understand the complex nature of these two issues
and our willingness to address them as important elements in
our urban transport policy.
Sincerely yours,
KOO,   BOHN - YOUNG
Vice Minister
Ministry of Transportation
Seoul, Korea



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Existing and Proposed Pusan City Parking Charges
EXISTINGC                                                            PROPOSED
CATEGORY              PERIOD                TARIFF           CATEGORY                PERIOD               TARIFF            NO. OF
SPACES
30 Minutes             W500 Off Street                      30 Minutes                 Wl,000 On/Off
1                                W650 Off Street             I                                   Street
Mainly                                                        Most
CBD                                                        Congested     1 Day                     W 10,000
1 day                 W6,000                    Areas        10 Minutes               W300                2,300 Car
of CBD230Ca
10 Minutes Over 2 Hours   W450                 Spaces
Monthly     Day        W75,000                              Monthly       Day          W140,000
Rate
Night     W56,000                                             Night       W70,000                                      LA
30 Minutes             W200 Off Street                      30 Minutes                 W500 On/Off
11                                W260 On Street             11                                   Street
Other Than                                                  Less Congested   I Day                    W6,000
CBD   and     __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Areas of                                      1DyW ,0
Around                                                        CBD                                                       3,800 Car
Subway        1 day                  W2,400                                10 Minutes                W200                 Spaces
Stations                                                                   10 Minutes over 2 hours    W300
Monthly     Day        W30,000                              Monthly       Day          W75,000
Rate
Night     W22,000                                             Night       W56,000
30 Minutes                W200 On/Off
III                                 Street
Areas
30 Minutes             W100                   Other Than     1 Day                     W2,400
Parking Lots    Day                    W1,200                    CBD         10 Minutes                W100               6,900 Car
Monthly     Day        W15,000                               10 Minutes Over 2 Hours   W100
Rate      I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Night     W11,000                               Monthly       Day         W30,000
|__ __   Night  W22,000



- 36 -                                  Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimation of PUTA Ridership and Car Requirements
1.           The objective of this annex is to summarize the methodology and its inherent assumptions
that were used for forecasting PUTA's ridership and car requirements during the project period (1994-
1999). Recognizing that the car requirement estimation is highly sensitive to assumed operational factors,
given the ridership estimates such as the peak hour factor, proportion of total peak traffic at the maximum
load point, crush load car capacity and the proportion of reserve fleet, a considerable amount of time was
devoted to the establishment of these factors based on the past experiences of PUTA operations. PUTA's
ridership forecasting was based on the results of the travel demand modelling conducted under the Pusan
Modal Integration and Congestion Management Study (Yoo-Shin Engineering, 1993), extrapolation of
experience to date and judgmental adjustment for system expansion. The adjustments to model results
were made to reflect changes in the schedule for the opening of each of the two phases of Line 2 and the
past trend of Line 1 patronage.
2.           Ridership Forecasting. The estimation of patronage by year was keyed to the peak hour
volumes by line and transfer volumes obtained from the travel demand simulation exercise and available
statistics from PUTA. For the existing Line- 1, estimates were mainly based on the assumed secular trend
considering the fact that no major development within the vicinity of this line is anticipated during the
1995-2000 period. The incremental impact of the Line-I extension in June, 1994 and the two-phase
opening of Line-2 (Phase I in 1998 and Phase II in 2001) on the future patronage of Line - 1 was
estimated from the simulation exercise. Similarly, Line-2 patronage was calculated by the simulation
model and adjusted to reflect the change in its first phase opening year from 1996 to 1998 and the last
phase from 1998 to 2001. Due to the uncertainties pertaining to the future expansion of other PUTA
lines, demographic changes and other transport related developments, the forecast beyond 2001 was based
on a conservative assumption of secular growth. The following assumptions were applied for the
calculation of yearly passengers and boardings (summation of passengers and transfers between lines) for
PUTA (see Table-1):
o     A peak hour factor of 10.8% was assumed over the forecasting period.
o     The 6.4 km extension of Line-i in June 1994 will increase total patronage by
85,000 passengers over one year under a full maturation scenario. For 1994, a
20% pre-maturation discount was applied.
o     For Line-l a secular annual growth trend of 3% between 1993 and 1994, 2.4%
until 1998, and then 1.2% over 1999-2011 was assumed.
o     The estimated number of boardings for the Phase I/Line-2 (22.4 km) in 1999
represented the model simulated estimate for 1997 to reflect a two year delay in
opening. Prematuration discounts of 20% for Line-2 and 10% for Line-i were
assumed for the first year of Phase l/Line-2 opening in 1998. Annual growth
rates of 6 % and 2 % were used for Line-2 passengers and transfers, respectively,
between 1999 and 2001.



- 37 -                                  Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
o     The ridership for 2001, following the opening of Phase II/Line-2 (16.7 k1m) was
based on the model simulation. Between 2001 and 2011, the annual number of
passengers using Line-2 and transfer volumes between the two lines will grow
by 3 % and 2%, respectively.
3.           Estimation of Car Requirements. The estimates of car requirement over the project
period (1994-1999) is presented in Table 2. The applied procedure utilized the following assumptions.
O     Peak hour maximum load ratio, a percentage of AM peak hour boardings, for
Line-I was derived from the observed train loading information of PUTA and for
Line-2 from the results of the transit assignment model with the adjustment for
the observed pattern in PUTA. The values for Lines 1 and 2 are assumed to be
42% and 57%, respectively, between 1995 and 2001.
o     The peak hour average crush load capacity for rail cars was assumed to be 275
for Line-I and 250 for Line-2. Currently, PUTA experiences, on an average
basis, 230-250 passengers per car during the AM peak hour for cars with a
design capacity of about 125 passengers. Since the estimate for transfer volumes
is sensitive to transfer penalty, some conservatism was introduced in the
estimation of Line-I cars by assuming a 20% higher peak car capacity.
o      The round trip travel times for Line 1 extended, Phase I/Line 2 and Line 2 are
assumed to be 137, 98, and 161 minutes, including 14 minutes layover time.
o     The reserve fleet represents 12% of the total number of cars.



- 38 -                                  Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
Table 1: Esdmated Daily Ridership for PUTA
,,__     ,,,   System-Wi4e TotJ       ____
Year     Transfers    Line 1     Line 2    Bpardings    Passengers   Length km    Pass./KnL
1985                  99,000                  99,000      99,000      15.0         6,600
1986                  80,000                  80,000      80,000      16.2         4,938
1987                  173,000                173,000      173,000     21.6         8,009
1988                  317,000                317,000      317,000     24.2        13,099
1989                 400,000                 400,000     400,000      24.2        16,529
1990                 482,000                 482,000     482,000      26.1        18,467
1991                 497,000                 497,000     497,000      26.1        19,042
1992                  525,000                525,000      525,000     26.1        20,115
1993                  515,000                518,300      518,300     26.1        19,858
1994                  598,000                569,849      569,849     32.5        17,534
1995                  628,000                628,477      628,477     32.5        19,338
1996                 643,000                 643,560     643,560      32.5        19,802
1997                 659,000                 659,006     659,006      32.5        20,277
1998      394,000    962,000     524,900   1,487,000    1,093,000     54.9        19,908
1999      438,000   1,035,000    656,111   1,691,000    1,253,000     54.9        22,823
2000      446,000   1,047,000    695,478   1,742,600    1,296,000     54.9        23,606
2001      467,000   1,055,000   1,069,000   2,123,000    1,657,000    71.6        23,142
2011      569,000   1,188,000   1,500,000   2,688,000    2,119,000    71.6        29,594
Table 2: Estimuted Car Requirement for PUTA (1995-2001)
Max. Load       Peak Car          Car
Daily Boar4igs          Rtio (%)          p0a4 R             ment    Additio: al Cars
Year     Line I        Line 2     Line 1  Line 2  Line I  Line 2   LneI  Line 2  Line 1  Line 2
1995     628,500                    42              275             267
1996     643,500                    42              275             274
1997     659,000                    42              275             280
1998     962,000       524,900      42      57      275    250    410       236     96      236
1999    1,035,000      656,000      42      57      275    250    440       254     30       18
2000    1,047,000      695,500      42      57      275    250    446       313      6       59
2001    1,055,000    1,069,000      42      40      275    250    449    555         3      242



-39 -                                  Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Institutional Development Component
Part 1 - MOT Training Program
Terms of Reference
Background
1.        Responsibilities for planning, programming, implementing and managing urban transport rest
with the Ministry of Transport (MOT) and the respective municipalities. The MOT and municipalities
work in cooperation with each other and with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Ministry of
Construction (MOC) and the Economic Planning Board (EPB), all of which have urban transport
interests. Funding for major urban transport infrastructure projects is derived from a variety of national
and local sources, administered and/or allocated by one or more of the agencies. Thus, both national and
local governments have an interest in the technical and administrative aspects of urban transport planning,
financing, programming and project management.
Obiectives
2.        The overall goal of the institutional development component is to enhance staff expertise at
the national and local level in the technical and procedural aspects of urban transport planning, financing,
programming and project management and thereby to maximize the use of the county's resources
allocated to the sector. Two training programs are proposed with the following specific objectives:
a. Program 1: National Program will strengthen the current national program to provide basic
training in transport planning, financing, programming and project management to national
and local government officials involved in the sector;
b. Program 2: Overseas Training/Education will involve overseas training, to master degree
level or equivalent, for senior transport specialists; and
c. Program 3: MOT Staff Training will provide training specially targeted for MOT staff to
familiarize them with emerging transport management practices and procedures.
Program Administration
3.        The MOT already undertakes training either through its own personnel and/or in cooperation
with various Korean technical institutions and specific amounts are allocated under MOT's budget to the
training. It has been agreed that:
a. the training program under the project will continue to be financed by MOT resources;



-40 -                                      Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
b. the contents of, and the resources to be devoted to the national training program (Program
1), will be agreed in discussion with the Bank on an annual basis. At Appraisal, the general
scope, content and schedule for the courses within Program  1 will be agreed.  Bank
supervision missions will review the progress of the courses.
Scope of Program 1: National Training
4.         The Program participants will be professionals involved with transport matters in local or
national agencies. The aim will be to provide a deeper understanding of transport planning and issues
in the sector and thus strengthen staff capabilities to: (i) direct and understand planning effort, (ii)
understand investment decisions, (iii) appreciate new developments and possibilities in the sector, and
(iv) manage transport matters (planning, consultancy activities, financial control, etc.)
5.         Program 1 will be modular and comprise lectures, workshops (and work-books), field visits
and inputs from visiting specialists, either national or foreign. The modules which will comprise the
program are:
a. Module 1 transportation planning including travel demand analysis and forecasting. The
aim of the module is to provide a basic technical foundation to the analytical approach to
transport planning. The content will include:
* estimation of travel demand
* travel characteristics
* travel surveys
* outline of transport modelling
b.  Module 2  transportation economics and financial analysis. The aim of the module is to
provide the basic background to the economic and financial evaluation of investments. The
content will include:
* basis of economic evaluation (consumer surplus approach) for road and public transport
projects
* basis of financial analysis of transport operations (subways and bus systems) including
generation of revenues (fares, land development, etc.) and determination of fixed and
variable costs.
c. Module 3 major transport investment planning and appraisal. The aim of the module is to
provide the basis background to the development of major investments. The content will
include:
* project development including development of alternatives (follow on from Module 1)
*  full cost identification (capital, operating, maintenance, etc.)
* project economic and financial evaluation and sensitivity tests (follow on from Module
2)
* environmental evaluation



- 41 -                                   Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
d. Module 4 project management and monitoring. The aim of the module is to provide the
basis for managing the implementation of large-scale investment projects. The content will
include:
* contract forms (Design-Build-Operate, Build-Operate-Transfer, etc.)
* contract procedures (ICB, LCB)
* project management (reporting, financial control, etc.)
e. Module 5  public transport operations.  The aim  of the module is to provide an
understanding of the concepts of operating public transport, including subways and bus
systems. The content will include:
* service planning
* revenues, costs and fares
* operating procedures
* regulatory system including privatization, deregulation, franchising, etc.
f.  Module 6 transport demand management (7DM) and transportation systems management
(TSM). The aim of the module is to familiarize participants with techniques to improve
efficiency of operations (TSM) and to control and manage demand (TDM). The course will
contain:
* demand management through parking policy, congestion/road pricing, land use controls,
encouragement for HOV's, staggered work/school hours, etc.
* modal integration techniques to maximize use of public transport investments and limit
car use in congested areas such as subway/other mode interchanges, park-and-ride,
integrated fare payment, modes, service integration, etc; and
* TSM to improve public transport operations including bus priority, traffic management
improvements, etc.
g. Module 7 legal and regulatory framework for transport. The aim of the module is to
familiarize participants with legal and regulatory framework within which transport planning,
investment and operations take place. The course will ensure that participants understand
the roles of the various agencies involved in the sector.
6.        Each module of Program 1 will be of about 1 week duration except Module 7, which will
be 2 days. The courses will be delivered by the Korea Transport Institute (KOTI) and that KOTI will
bring in national and foreign specialists for specific parts of modules (e.g. rail operations).
7.        Participants will drawn from the national and local agencies from any Korean urban area.
Private sector participants will be encourages to attend; MOT will decide if charges should be levied.
It is proposed that each Module is presented once per year and that, if possible, at least a number of
participants from each local agency or national agency attend all Modules although some participants may
attend only some Modules. Preliminary assessments by MOT indicate that the Program will be attended
by about 120 participants on an annual basis.
8.        MOT/KOTI will operate a course review and evaluation process. The Program will be
modified in the light of the results, and the overall results will be discussed with the bank at the Mid
Term Review.



- 42 -                                 Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
Scope of Programn 2: Overseas Training/Education
9.        The MOT proposes to finance between 8 and 12 persons per year to undertake overseas
study. Training institutes have not yet been defined, but MOT proposes to place the emphasis on
transportation planning, transport financing and transportation economics.
Scope of Program 3: MOT Staff Training
10.       As part of its normal staff training programn, MOT will provide training specially targeted
for MOT staff to familiarize them with emerging transport management practices and procedures. MOT
has programmed presentation of these courses to about 150 persons per year. It is emphasized that MOT
staff will be eligible to attend Program 1.
Budget for the Program
11.       The program will not be funded from the project but the MOT has allocated the amounts
shown in Table 1 in its annual budget:
Table 1 - MOT Budget Allocated to Training
(US$ in February 1994 prices)
1995     1996     1997      1998      Total
Program 1: National Training       194,000  194,000  194,000              582,000
Program 2: Overseas Training/Education   262,000  291,000  320,000   349,000   1,222,000
Program 3: MOT Staff Training       3,500    3,750    3,750      3,750     14,750
Total                              459,500  488,750  517,750   352,750   1,818,750



43                                      Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
Institutional Development Component
Part 2 - Technical Assistance
Draft Tenns of Reference
Background
1.    Pusan City Government (PCG) will be responsible for the execution of Part A of the Urban
Transport Management Project (the Project). The Project will involve inter-modal transport facilities and
transport system management measures. Additionally, PCG is committed to carry out a Traffic Demand
Management (TDM) Study and in the past year has completed a city-wide Transport Systems
Management (TSM) Study. It is anticipated that further Project components will be identified from these
two studies and developed and implemented within the period of the Project and with Project funds.
2.     PCG has few staff in the traffic and transport sector and thus now proposes to seek the services
of one or more professionals to provide technical assistance in the realization of the program.
Objectives
3.     The objectives of the technical assistance are:
a. to assist PCG in the identification, evaluation and implementation of the TDM and TSM
measures to be implemented under the Project;
b. to assist PCG in the selection, appointment and supervision of consultants engaged in the
preparation and design of the TDM and TSM components; and
c. to provide training and general support to PCG staff in the traffic and transport sector.
Scope of Work
4.     The technical assistance professionals will work with the Transportation Planning Division (TPD)
of PCG to achieve the objectives noted in paragraph 3. The scope of work will be to provide advice and
assistance on:
a. feasibility studies for TDM and TSM schemes and policies
(i) preparation of terms of reference for consultant studies
*  preparation of request for proposals from consultants
*  evaluation of proposals
*  selection of consultants
*  supervision of studies
b. selection of TDM strategy and priority projects
* evaluation of consultant's recommendation and thus the establishment of TDM and TSM
policies and priority policies and schemes for implementation under the Project;



- 44 -                                     Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
c.  final engineerinz and implementation action plans for schemes and policies
(i) preparation of terms of reference for consultant studies
*  preparation of request for proposals from consultants
*  evaluation of proposals
*  selection of consultants
*  supervision of outputs
d.  monitoring of traffic and transport conditions generally and of TDM  and TSM  proiects in
particular
*  establishment of a monitoring program  to assess traffic and transport conditions and
trends in Pusan and provide the basis for further development and justification of TDM
measures
*  establish and initiate reporting procedures for the Bank Project
*  evaluate progress of schemes and policies implemented under the Bank Project
e.  training of PCG staff
*  provide on-the-job training and supervision to TPD staff
*  conduct training seminars for PCG staff in traffic and transport planning matters
*  establish working procedures for the TPD
*  establish liaison procedures with the Traffic Department of PCG, the Parking Department
of PCG, and the Traffic Police and other agencies to ensure a consistent and integrated
approach to traffic, transport, parking, etc. matters
Qualifications
5.     The technical assistance will be provided by one or two suitably qualified traffic and/or transport
planner(s). The likely profile is:
*  an academic qualification in a relevant subject; a further specialized degree in a transport
subject may be an advantage but practical experience is of more importance (see item
following)
*  at least 10 years, and preferably more, experience as a traffic engineer or planner with
a consultant or with a local government agency. "On-line" rather than administrative
experience is sought
*  the ability to commnunicate in the Korean language
Place of Work and Duration
6.     The technical assistance will be located in PCG's offices in Pusan. Full time involvement is
expected for at least the first year. After that time, a part time involvement is expected for another three
years.



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
(IJSS million)
1995                        7690                       7987                        7998                        78)                         200000.
?I*O5 6.1115             *n.I    l  1       To,.4   F0W4.      LeJ      Totol   Fo..i     L.4      Tw.1    F~o       1I.9I     1.O    F.4qo      L-4       To4J   F00        L-o       Tot.,   Fo...g      -l
rw A M6t F,,I.
Mopo
cl.wok.6                           I 1S     2.2I     340       2 2      423      650       00o      000      0 o      000       00O      000      000       000      000 0o00          0 00      0 00     37       644         0
Ee411o.oo18                         00      0    0   000       0 35     0 30     0 70      000       00 0     00      000       0 00     000      0 00     0 00      0 00     0 00     0 00    o0o        0 35     03%       0 70
Q   4 s9.00,AA-              002      00 D      0.10     004      01        020     0000      000      0.00      000      000      000       000      0.00     000       000      000      0.00      0.06     024      030
S6 01.1                           i.21     229      3.50      2.67     4I7      740      000       0.00     000      000      000       000      000       OO       000      000      000       000      3s6       703    1090
Fbvw.o c     _,"W.1.               024      044      068       0 46     085       I0       0 00     0 00     0 00     000       000      0 00     0 00     0 00      0 00     0 00     0 00      000      069       129      199
0.1T.e                            14S      273      4.18       a2 556           970       00       O0        000      000      000 0o00          000      0 00o   o0.o       o00      000        00      4 67     9.31    1 i
LasdWVWP4..y                       000      0.00     0.00     0o00      0.00     0.o0      o.0      00       0.00       .0      000      000 0o00 0o00               000      0 00      000      000      000       000      0 00
tow.1 S* 6.                          5.41     2,73     4.1.      3.12      .56     6.0       0.00               00      000       0.00     00       0.00      0.00 o000 0o00             0.00      0.0      4.7       8.31    02
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~67                                                                                                                                              .67     83      _  . . 
CbPAWpt,                           2.72     S0O      7.77      0.00     000      0.o0      0O0      000      o.00      00       000      000      0 00      000      0.00     000       000      000      2,72      5.0s     777
51848                              0.10     0.10     0.00 0o00          0 00     0.00      0 00    o00)      00 0      0.00     0 00     0         o00  00D0 000      00       0 00     0 00     0 00     0 10      0 1o     0 0
Dr s" 'M 4                         0.00     025      0.31      0.00     0.00     0.00      000      000      000      0.0o      000      00O      000       000      000      000      000       0.00     0.06     025       023
S,.                               2 .6 I   5 40     8.08      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.0      000      0.00      000      00       0.0      0 00      000      0 00     OM       0 00      2 80     5 40      8 .2
Pc *MCftv-ft                       O.4      I.0ol   I'SS      0.00     0.00     000       00       000      000       000      000      000      000       000      000      000       000      0 00     0 54      10 o     I55
Sub TOO                           3.43     0.41     9 53      0 00     000      0 00 0o00          0 W o    0 00      000      0 00     0 00      0 00     0 00     0 00     0 00      0 0o     0 00     3  3      641      5 8)
L...W.Ploq..                       0    00           0.00      00       0 no     0.00      00o      0 00     00 0     0 00      00       00       00 0      0.00     000         00     0.00     00 0     00 0     0o 0      0O
TYed.6%bP.1                          2.43     6.41      63       0.00     0.00     0.00      0 Do     0.0      0.00    02_00      0o00     0.00      000      0.00     0 00      0 00     0.0      000      3.43      641      983
EAST WEST OM LANESO
C4 W.A.                            0.00      .00     oo00      0.13     007      0.6s      013      062      065       000      000      000       000      000      000       0.00     000      0.00      026      104      130         t
0.0      0 00     0.00     0 07      0 08     0 s      o 000     000      00 0     0W 0        0  0   0W 0        0  0  00 0      0 0  0 a 00       00o      0 00      0 07     0 00     0 15
O..d8 so.l-o"                     0. 00    000      000       0.01     002      003       001      003      003       000      000      000       000      000      000       000      000      0.00     002       004      006
. S, I"                           000      o        000 oee            0 62     0 83      014      0 54     0 68      000 0o00 0o00               00 0o00           0 00 0o00 0o00              00 0      0 35     16       1 s
0.00     0o.o     00013                                                                      0o00     0.00     000      000       000      000      000      000       005      0o       03,,
St.T T4                           0.00     000      0.00      024      0.72     056       077      0.64     os0       000      000      000       0.0o     000      000       000      000      0 o      040       137      1 77
r.oo o.eo o.oo         o           .eoo0.00  000     0.00      0.00     0.00     0o00      0.0      0O0      0.00      0 W      0 00     000       0.00     0 00     000       000      000      0 00     000       000      0no
T.ow - , Ps"                         0.00     0.00     0.00      024      0.72     04.       0.17     0.64     08I       0.00     000      000       0.00    0o00 0e             0.00     000      e0.00   0e40       17       177
s.rYt  TrS1T684  F...
Cbs W.%                            0.00    0o00      o.oo      0,75     7.20     1.95      1.50     2.09      .00      1So      200      4 0.      Iso      2,09    4*0        000      000      0.00      5.26     8.97    1423
fqow.q                            o0.00    0o00      0 00      000      0.20     0.20      0.00     0 0o     0 20      o 00     0 20     0.20      0 00     0.20     0.00     0 00      0 00     0.00     0 00      0.60     0 80
D.W* -W S    _pw-w-                000      000      0 00      002      0.07     0.0       003      01 4     0.17      003      04       0SIT     002      0a14      017      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.12      04o      060
So Toul                           0.00     0.00     000u      0 77     147      2.24      .S4      2 193    4.46      1.64     2 93     4 46      1 54     2.93     4 46      0 00     0.00     0.00     5.38      0 25    1 063
PI.,C      _*bv.d.                 0.00     000      0.0 0o.s           0.24     0.39      0.30     0.62     0.82      0.30     052      0.98      0.30     052      082       0,00     000      0.00      100      I 79     2SS
SIATotS                           000      0.00     0.00      0.92     1.71     2.63      1.64     245      0.28      1.84     3.40     5.2e      1.14     3.45     5.28      000      0.00     o.0o     6.43    12 O      Is841
L..d   W   r.o                     0 00     0 00     0.00      a 00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     000       0.00     0 00     0.00      0.0      00       0.00      0.00     0 00     0 00     0.00      0 00     0 00
od Sdb  t                         oo0.00  0.00     0.00     0.92      1 71     2.63      1.,4     24S    56.28       1.64     3        0. S26 P  l.       3.45     0.28     O000     00o o     0.00     6 43    12 04    164 8
n A. Told.
CI4W.*.                            3 91     720      11.17     316       5o      970       1.63     3.17     474       10S      205      409       Iso      259      409       000      000      0o 00      71     2750    3320
.o.-"                              0 70     0.70     0 20      0.42     0.63     I.0S      o.00     o.20     020       000      02 0     0 20      0 00     0 20     0 20      0 00     000      0 00     0 52      133      I 95
r.OS4  .o                          0.0      033     041       0.07     025      0.32      0.04     0le      020       003      014      0.77      003      0t1      )17       000      000      00O      026       107      127
SolTotl                           4 0      7.6      1108      3.64     882     104Z1      7.35      4 II      14      754      2923     4.6 O      .54     .97      446      000oe      00 0oe          7249      2363      . 36
""'ite C _"kv-dot,           078      145      223      063       19       7            82  033  002   0.95     030      052       082      030      052       082      000      000      0o0       2.34     430      864
Sb 0 old                          467      S.4      13.81     4.*7     6.07    72.20       00      4.09     08        1.84    3245      026       I64      345      5.878     000      000      000     14ooo3    281 3    426 Is
L-W o.e                       o   0         000      0o00      000      0 00     0.00     o0        000      000       00o      0o00     0o00      0e00     0.00     000      0o00      0 00      000       00      00 .     I0 0
Su& Tf4                           4.67       14    13 81      4.217    8.0l    1229       2 00     4.09     6.04      784      3 45     5.28      7 64     3 46     5.26      00       0.00    0o00     14 83    28 03    42 96
PlCot 6oo6.s                      0.76      069      0.84     028       1.00      .26     0.M7     02       0.8)      020      036      086       026      O.9S      1.20     000      000      000       104      413      5.76
S9, Tuld                          .03      983     14.65      4,3      601     13255      2.7      *80 W     .8       2.04     622      626       I06      4.3      646      000 0o00           000     15.86     3226    48.12
050      0.66     147      0.45     000       730      022       0.45     0.70     0.20     042       062      027                                                     156 oe3 oo'
04AL.. 6 A  A. A.4 6                         10.81    48.12     4.       9.82     14.80     2.38      fl       7.66     2.24     4          88      2.26     4 .6     7 .3      0        00       0.00     1340,    3 4A     52 93
_   _   _  _  _            _                                                                                                              -      -v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
!L.04   G"           0.00   L002~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
CD



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
(USS million)
.~~                                                                                                                                     ~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 199_
Fe-ft-  tfto  To"I  F"        9...49    la"I  r.,.i.       L.o.      TI"                              I o Lm  ;       ..        4  I   .fp          -d      TO       *rI        L        T I
1. p                  |          196                                        .94  _                      'F ee            '-              I            7eX                _         1 4. . 9.
P6 - PUTA 9UWlAY CANS
216 9    C..lcm sF.2 L.I 4.I          000 0o00           G.D o     0.11    20,1 6s.10          2.51      31.1     70.3e     35.1      31.18     70.35     0.00      000       0.00     0.00      o.w      0.00    t00wso    too5s0   20100
U2  -w  Co. P- LW  I                  000      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      00        000       0.00     0.00     23.01    23 01     4602       0 O       0 00      000      0,00    0G00        0,00     23.01    2301    '6.02
94 T_1111                           0.0o O     .00      O.W      Will0     0 15     6030      35 16     35.16    70.30      s96      M 19.1    11t37     0.00      000      0.00      000       0.00     0.00    12375     123.01    247.02
P4..Co"0   0.00                                          0.00      1.73      377       50o   2390        6.1`      90       6G.2      13.09     19.3       000      000       0.00 0o00          000       0.00     IO."9    23.02     33 9
s000                                          0.00o     0.00     3        33        65. o     36.06     4133       4       644       7126    13572       0a.0      0.00      0.00     0.00    0o00        000    134.40    1463   2309
T~ 0  OWN                   0.00      0.00      000O     3 99      3 3"9     60Ss      3.61     4 13      7,94      6 44      7 13    935S7      000      0,00      0 00      0 00     0 00      0 00     13 44     94065    26 09
Tbw_-PI a                               0.0      0.0      0.00     3.07      37.31     72.3     4.66    41 .46     67.3S      70.66    76.40    149 .29    0.00      h0.0 o     0.0 o0.0 _0.0               0.00    147_.4    16 .1    30902
PANT C 
-1FTIIIMIL9      fOMff
PUtA Fb-hff 3IS                       OIl      0.30      0.60      0.00     0.00      000       000       0.00     0 00      0.00      0.00     0 00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.A0      0.30      0.10
1WVTom                                0.13     0.3       0.42      0.17     0.40      0.57     o00        000      0.00 0o00           00       0 00      000       0.00      0.00     0.00     o00      O        0.J0       06b      0.
TANtog                                000      0.41      0.40      0.       0          .         00       0.40     0.40      0.0       045      04        0.00      0.0       0.00     0.00      000      00        00        '90       9.60
T _^  0.00  0.02   0.02      000       0.04     0.04      000        04       0.0      0w        002      002       00        00       0.0      0o00       0.0       00       000       o         0.12
TOTAL-P. C                             0L26-     1.1      1.31      0.97      0.6       1.o0     0.00      0.49     0.49       0.00     0.41      0        0.0-0     9         000       0.00Z 0.00         0 o.0o0   0o.4 2_ o241
C   0io    A6                         0.36      9.44      9.60     0.24      1.14      9.36      0.04     0.65      0.19      0.03     0.69      0.64      0.03     0.94      0.17      000      000       0.00      0.71      397      4a 0
cle64.                                3.99      7.26    9 17       3.16      S         6 s .10   1.63     3.1       4.*4      9 .1     2.05      4 09      1.50     219       4.09      0.00     000       0o0      I 71      21 so    320
0.90     0.90      0.20     WV.07    35.76     61 30     3s59      30.36    70.Ss    0s69       s0 6     916.7      0.00      020       0.20     000       000       0.00    924 03    92 844    246.67
S.A TOW                              4.37      6.610    93.1     33.96    37.66      7963     34.60     30.13     70.16    59.72    69.ss    12930        954      2.93      4.45      0.00     0.00      o.00    930.S    910.30    260.7S
d       C_k.1 r                       0.76      1.4      2.23      0.63      9.91      9.63     0.33      0.62      0.96      0.30     0.52      0.62     0.30      0.02      0.62      0,00     000       0.00      234       a30      0.64
b.b1T_.b-1. C                        5.9s     IO.21    I1.40     34.SS    3901       73.65    37.96     39.75    76.13     60.03     62.90    122.12      9.94     2.45      0.26      0.0      0.00      000      i e937   15.1o  0    793 Is
LtodtoI PmwvN                         0.00      0.00     0.00      0 00      0.00      0.00     0 00      0 00      0.00      0 00     0 00      0.00      0.00     0 00      0.00      000D     0 00      000       0 00      9100     0 00
TOT*  "a I., 94. 6 A4                  5.:5    t0.25      95.40    34.19     n0        7365S    37.96     30175     7.23      0.02     62.90    122.12      1.64     345       5.26      0.00    0o00       900    9379    154 60    29320
P94.4Coq_ I..                         os29  0.96  06     0.64      9.K4      4.72      6.76      2.07     6.e7     .94        646    193.7      20.32      0.25     0.95      9.7e      0.00    0o00      0o00      993       27.94    3n07
TOTAL OM. to  A.                        .3      10.64     96.32    36.6S    423        60.4      40.25    4663      s6.       6 6.4     0.97      2         2.0      4.3       .46       0.0 0.00 0o00    910.79    969 74   337 4
T4 AL _wa b_J 31                     :~00       016      9.47      3.64      4.29      7.9      4.03      4.69     6.64       .Ss 60    .55     9.0        0.29      .4       0 6s       00      0.00 0o00          95.03     97.66    32.901
TOTAL  tJECT                           5.62     11 .2     97.2     40.23    4.L12       .34      44.26    59.24    n6.5       7393    63.92    956.64       2.26     4.63      7.3       0.00     0.00      0.00    957       99.63    365.36
_9  .   *   _  US$  _-f. d94  .   4d          . .Wd i ..59   . _ak*V
. 2 -   4.96696.96464  I6 C6 946464.1       fi9     _T66.am   2.5% Po699. 19Y94M 594 .9% W  N. d.-t6  1144 1.    we of VA4 949
tow3.    6. *         *96 F"   6.46951  M t4k o 4 10%
RI ;
iiX



-47-                                    Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Transit Fare Structure Study
Draft Outline Terms of Reference
Background
1.           Pusan, the second largest city in Korea with a population of about 4 million, has wit-
nessed a rapid growth in population and employment. In recent years, Pusan has also emerged as one
of the largest container ports in the world. The combination of substantial truck traffic generated by
Pusan harbor, increased auto ownership due to income and population growth (vehicle registration has
risen by 369% between 1980 and 1991), and the geographic constraints (steep mountains, narrow valleys,
rivers, and the sea) have resulted in extremely high traffic densities along well-defined corridors with
severe congestion.
2.           In response to the deteriorating traffic conditions, the Pusan City Government (PCG),
with the assistance of the central government, has constructed a subway (Line-1 of 26.1 km built and 6.4
km planned to open by June 1994) and urban expressways. However, demand continues to outstrip
capacity. Currently, the proportions of total trips served by subway, bus, taxi, car and other modes are
7.7%, 45.2%, 22.3%, 13.9% and 10.9%, respectively. The local bus system, run by private bus
operators, continues to be the dominant transit mode, but gradually its effectiveness is eroding due to the
deterioration in traffic conditions and limited integration of bus and subway services. The subway system
operated by Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA), carries about 500,000 passengers daily, and
experienced over a 13% annual growth in ridership between 1988 and 1993. PUTA's cost recovery
record has been good and it plans to maintain a fare level that covers at least the direct operating costs
and eventual costs for replacing its rolling stocks. The current tariff structure for bus and taxi is based
on a system of average costs and is kept uniform throughout the country. The tariff level for urban
transport services, including subway, taxi and bus, are determined by the Ministry of Transportation
(MOT) in consultation with the Economic Planning Board (EPB). However, there is a move to
decentralize urban bus and taxi tariff setting powers to the provincial governments by June 1994.
Need for the Study
3.           There is strong recognition of the fact that the urban transit fares should reflect market
conditions and seek a balance between the social and financial goals of an agency. In Korea, the need
for a comprehensive pricing policy framework for urban transport services is pressing, in particular, to
insure a good integration between subway and bus services, and to enhance healthy operations of all
modes. For an effective decentralization of fare setting powers, it is now essential that local governments
understand the way a fare revision task is undertaken. With this view, the main purpose of this study
will be to demonstrate the analytical basis for establishing an urban transit fare setting policy in Pusan
using differential pricing methods.
Objective of the Study
4.            The objectives of the study would be: (a) to consider appropriate principles for the
determination of an efficient fare system, taking into account the need to improve cost recovery while



-48 -                                    Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
maintaining fairness amongst user groups; and (b) to demonstrate the practicability of a pricing structure
based on these principles.
Scope of Work
5.            Consultants should be engaged to carry out the following:
(a)    analyze existing markets of bus, PUTA and taxi users in terms of their travel patterns,
time and distance of travel using all available data from recent studies, home interview
surveys, road-side surveys, patronage and ticket sales information of PUTA and bus
operators, and taxi user surveys;
(b)    estimate the sensitivity of travel markets to changes in price and service of travel by
carefully designing, conducting and analyzing results of a "stated preference survey"
(about 1000 responses) and checking the reasonableness of the price and service
elasticities determined from the survey with the past observations in Korea;
(c)    define operational goals of fare structure consistent with the general objective of
reconciling efficiency with improved cost recovery and equity;
(d)    develop criteria for preliminary and detailed evaluation of fare structure alternatives;
(e)    develop a transit fare evaluation model using the findings and data of the survey in step
5(b) above to evaluate the ridership and revenue impacts of various fare structure
scenarios and bus-subway fare integration options;
(f)    identify alternative fare strategies, including, but not limited to, peak/off peak fares,
bus/PUTA fares, distance based fares, service quality based fares and pre-payment
methods;
(g)    evaluate fare options using the fare evaluation model of step 5(e) above and against the
pre-established criteria in step 5(d) above and identified implementation constraints;
(h)    develop implementation strategies and related costs for preferred fare revision options,
including the hardware requirements, procedures for revenue collections and sharing, if
necessary (e.g., between bus operators and PUTA), training requirements, marketing
procedures, etc.; and
(i)    recommend fare options for PUTA and bus services illustrating the advantages and
disadvantages of each option to the implementing bodies.
Reports
6.            The consultants are expected to produce the following reports (in English) during the
course of the study:
(a)    Inception Report: Within one month, the consultants will produce an inception report
outlining observations, data collection program (survey methods with implementation
plan) and detailed work program.



49                                    Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
(b)   Interim Report: Within three months, the consultants will produce an interim report
outlining the results of steps 5(a), 5(c), and 5(d) above, a complete design for the survey
planned under step 5(b) above for review before its implementation and the conceptual
structure of the evaluation model proposed under step 5(e) above.
(c)    Final Report:  Within nine months, a draft final report will be submitted by the
Consultants for comments from the agencies responsible for implementing a new fare
policy in Pusan. A revised final report will be submitted before the end of the tenth
month.



- 50 -                                  Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Five-Year Traffic Demand Management (TDM) and
Transportation Systems Management (TSM) Program Study
Institutional Component - Outline Tenns of Reference
Context
1.           Pusan, the second largest city of Korea (about four million population), has witnessed a
rapid growth in population and employment. In recent years, Pusan has also emerged as one of the
largest container ports in the world. The combination of substantial truck traffic generated by Pusan Port,
increased auto ownership due to income and population growth (vehicle registration has risen by 369%
between 1980 and 1991), and the geographic constraints (steep mountains, narrow valleys, rivers, and
the sea) have resulted in extremely high traffic densities and severe traffic congestion along well-defined
corridors.
2.           In response to the deteriorating traffic conditions, the Pusan City Government (PCG),
with the assistance of the Government of Korea (GOK) has constructed a subway (Line-1, 26 km built
between 1985-90) and various urban expressways. Currently, the proportion of total trips served by
subway is 7.7%; bus, 45.2%; taxi, 22.3%; car, 13.9%; and other modes, 10.9%.
3.           Currently, the subway is operated by Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA) and carries
about 500,000 riders daily; the subway recovers its overall operating expenses and the eventual
replacement of rolling stock from its internal resources. The bus system, run by private bus operators,
continues to be the dominant transit mode, but its effectiveness is being gradually eroded due to
deteriorating traffic conditions. A program of major expressways and subway expansions is being
undertaken (extension of Line-I and Phase-I/Line-2). However, given traffic conditions and the limits
for system-wide expansion, comprehensive policies are required (i) to manage travel demand (e.g.,
congestion and parking pricing, work hour management, parking management, etc.), (ii) to optimize the
efficiency of the present traffic system (e.g., bus priority and other transportation system management
(TSM) strategies, etc.) and (iii) to integrate modes (e.g., enhancement of transit use through fare
integration and improved services, physical integration of various modes, restructuring of bus services,
etc.).
4.           GOK is taking action to reform urban transport financing and planning. Such action
includes creation of a multi-modal Special Account for Transportation, funded in part through increased
gasoline taxes, decentralization of bus and taxi fare setting to provincial authorities and adoption of a
Five-year Urban Transport Action Plan with a commitment to demand management and transit system
capacity expansion. In Pusan itself, initial actions are being undertaken in both the traffic demand
management (TDM) and TSM areas in line with this general approach. As part of the World Bank
financed Pusan Urban Transport Management Project (the Project), to be comrnenced in 1995, the
following components are, inter alia, included:



- 51 -                                 Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
a.    construction of multi-modal interchanges to improve utilization of the subway system.
The facilities will include the provision of subway, bus and taxi stopping and passenger
transfer facilities and, at selected stations, expanded park-and-ride measures. Six multi-
modal facilities are proposed along Line-1: Nopo, Tongnae, Kyodaep and Hadan and two
further sites to be identified;
b.    implementation of a parking policy which will (i) channel new PCG parking investments
toward sub-urban areas and, in particular, towards subway stations and (ii) increase
parking charges to influence auto use demand. For PCG supplied parking, charges will
be increased within congested areas of the city (26% of total public supply) to bring them
in line with private sector charges; and
c.    to complement TDM  strategies, sample TSM measures will be introduced. A bus
priority scheme on a strategic East-West corridor will be constructed between the
Mandok tunnels, a critical bottleneck in the West, and the East side of the City. The
scheme will integrate with, and support, the proposed Tongnae inter-modal facility.
5.           However, it is recognized that these measures are a first step in the management of
demand. Given this position and that there are limits to both existing system capacity and the ability of
the city to supply new capacity, a comprehensive travel management policy is needed to ensure an
effective and efficient transport system. Thus, it is proposed, as part of the Project, to undertake a study
to develop a "5-Year Traffic Demand and Transportation Systems Management Program" (the Study).
Study Objectives
6.           The Study objectives are:
a.    to identify transport and traffic problems which will exist in Pusan following the
completion of the extensions to Line-I (mid 1994), the implementation of the TDM/TSM
components financed under the Bank Project (estimated mid 1997), the construction of
Phase-I/Line-2 (estimated 1998) and urban expressway improvements scheduled for
completion by 1998; and
b.    based on the identification of transport system problems, to develop a comprehensive
TDM and TSM policy and program. The TDM/TSM policy will aim (i) to manage
travel demand to ensure optimum use of public transport facilities, and (ii) to encourage
the use of public transport by incentives and by dis-incentives to the uneconomic use of
private vehicles.
Study Timing and Tixne Horizon for the TDM/TSM Plan
7.           The Project will be completed in 1999. It is necessary that the Study be completed at
least by early 1996 such that the Bank and the PCG may consider, jointly, the recommendations and the
implementation plan. Thus, the Study is scheduled for 1995. The Study will draw upon the experience
gained from the introduction of the revised public parking charge policy. However, as the Study will
be carried out before the completion of Phase 1/Line-2 of the subway, the Study will be required to
estimate the likely impacts of completion of the line in arriving at policies and actions. Similarly, the
impacts of expressway and other transport improvements scheduled for completion between the initiation
of the Study and the end of the Project will need to be estimated. The Study will develop a 5-Year
TDM/TSM Program for the years 1996-2001.



- 52 -                                   Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
Study Area
8.            The area of the Study will be the built-up area of Pusan.
Scope of Work
9.            The Study will be carried out in two phases. Phase 1 will identify transport and traffic
problems. Phase 2 will develop the TDM/TSM policies and implementation plan for the policies.
10.           Phase 1 will comprise a diagnosis of existing and projected (up to 2004) transport and
travel conditions in Pusan. The description of existing conditions, including performance of measures
implemented under the Bank Project, should rely, to the greatest extent possible, on actual observations
(counts and surveys) of transport usage and performance. However, to reflect the impact of new
transport facilities and services scheduled for introduction during the study period, and in order to
examine policy alternatives in Phase 2, transport modeling will be required. Various transport models
have been developed for Pusan (notably by KOTI) and it is anticipated that the planning requirements of
the study will use these past models. Updating and adaptation to the needs of the study, probably
including augmentation to achieve expanded policy sensitivity, will be necessary. Thus, work in Phase
1 will involve, but not be limited to:
a.    travel data - the Study will collect and review existing traffic, transport and other relevant
data (e.g., planning data) needed for diagnosis of transport and travel conditions, and for
the development and evaluation of TDM/TSM policies and investment plans. Travel data
will be collected from all agencies involved in the urban transport sector, including the
data related to the characteristics, operational performance and usage of private vehicles,
buses, subway, the rail system and freight vehicles;
b.     current facilities and conditions  - inventories of existing urban transport sector
infrastructure, facilities and systems will be assembled. Data should be adequate to
enable existing transport deficiencies to be identified. The data should address the road
system, subway, rail system and bus system;
c.     planned investments and other actions in the urban transport system - projects undergoing
implementation, committed or planned, as well as national and local policy changes
which will affect urban transport, will be identified. Implementation schedules and
realism of funding (for major investments such as future subway lines) should be
identified;
d.     existing models and application to the Study - existing traffic and transport models will
be assembled and their applicability to the assessment of short tern traffic and transport
policies will be assessed; the most appropriate model set for use in the evaluation of the
TDM/TSM policies will be selected. The approach of the models to be used will be
determined (e.g., estimation of absolute values vs. estimation of relative change) and
necessary updates and improvements will be accomplished. It is appreciated that the
models may not be sufficiently detailed for a micro-analysis to be made of all policy
options. The analytical work should be aimed at determining the overall direction of
policy actions - the emphasis should be on sensitivity testing rather than extremely
detailed analysis of a few options;



-53 -                                   Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
e.    surveys and data to assess measures implemented under the Bank Project - based on the
foregoing data, the Study will define, organize, conduct and supervise any additional
surveys and data collection necessary for the successful completion of the Study. It is
emphasized that in designing any travel surveys, every effort should be made to make
maximum use of existing travel data. In particular, the Study will establish, through
surveys and through ongoing monitoring data collected by PCG and PUTA, the
performance of the measures implemented in the past, including parking policy; and
f.     analysis of existing transport system - the Study will analyze the transport data (traffic
flows, passenger flows, travel speeds, facilities, capacities, etc.) and make projections
as necessary to identify the nature, type and location of transport system deficiencies and
problems which exist at the time of the Study and which will occur in the next 5 years.
The analyses will cover all modes and will be demonstrated in both numerical and
graphical forms. The results of the analysis will be presented in an "Existing System
Report".
11.          Phase 2 will comprise the development of a 5-Year TDM/TSM Program for the years
1996-2001. The TDM/TSM program should aim (i) to manage travel demand to ensure optimum use
of public transport facilities, and (ii) to encourage the use of public transport by incentives and by dis-
incentives to the uneconomic use of private vehicles. The Program will emphasize policy initiatives and
immediate actions, low cost techniques to achieve the program objectives. However, capital investments
should not be excluded and, for example, may include components such as new inter-modal facilities,
infrastructure for public transport such as busways, and other investments necessary for the achievement
of wider policies (e.g., a new road may be necessary to enable a feasible pricing scheme to be developed
in the most congested area of the city). To achieve the Program objectives, it is anticipated that measures
and actions will be developed in, at least, the following three categories:
a.     actions to ensure the efficient use of road space such as:
conventional traffic management to optimize capacity such as reduction in conflicting
movements at complex intersections, introduction of one-way street segments, etc.;
*     re-assignment of roadspace such as exclusive bus lanes, HOV lanes on expressways and
other roads, etc.;
*     policies and strategies for car pools, van pools, etc.;
*     road construction which will allow policy objectives to be achieved in other areas;
b.     actions to reduce the use of vehicles in congested areas;
*     parking controls/policy/management;
*     car restricted zones;
*     actions to encourage the use of non-motorized modes (NMV);
*     user pricing schemes such as cordon pricing, area pricing, supplementary licensing, road
tolls, etc.
*     employer based trip reduction strategies;
*     staggered work and school hours;
*      commercial vehicle controls;
*     fuel pricing;
*     public transport fares policies;



-54-                                       Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
*      land use and parking controls exercised at development application/approval stage;
*      land use policy and controls;
c.     actions to improve transit services;
*      inter-modal (subway/bus/taxi) facilities and coordination;
*      increased park-and-ride in outer areas;
*      busway (built for the purpose) and other facilities;
*      bus route reorganization;
*      premium bus services such as air conditioned, express, etc.;
*      integration of urban and inter-urban bus services
*      increased capacity and/or operational performance of bus and subway systems
*      actions to improve quality and comfort;
*      improved public transport efficiency;
*      public transport ownership, regulation and market entry.
12.           In developing the program, the Study will develop the policies, measures and actions to
the "feasibility stage". In general, measures should be developed to the level which establishes:
*      physical feasibility;
*      operational feasibility (capacity analyses, method of operation, transferred effects,
enforcement, etc.);
*      economic viability;
*      environmental impacts;
*      preliminary cost estimates;
*      procedures for implementation;
*      complementary and supporting policies and actions.
13.           The Study should:
a.     examine a wide range of options and combinations at a general level in preference to
testing only a few strategies in great detail.
b.     consult widely with decision makers and users (public participation) to ensure that the
proposed policies are (i) politically feasible and (ii) publicly acceptable;
c.     present a comprehensive evaluation of city-wide TDM/TSM  policy plan options and
strategic component alternatives;
d.     obtain decisions selecting a combination of actions, policies and measures forming a
coherent plan;
e.     develop a city-wide policy plan capable of phased implementation over the proposed 5
year period; and
f.     prepare a phased implementation plan for the Program over the 5-year period. The plan
will define actions, agency responsibilities, costs (operational and capital), changes in
legislation, institutional arrangements and changes and all other matters that are necessary
for the successful implementation of the recommended Program.



-55-                                  Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
Reports
14.          Three reports are required from the Study:
a.    an Inception report which will be produced 1 month after the commencement of the
Study and which will define the study procedures and work program in detail. The report
will be discussed with the PCG and with the Bank;
b.    Report of Traffic and Transport Problems. The report will present the data and findings
from Phase 1; and
c.    the Final Report which will include the findings from Phase 2 and present the
recommendations of the study for the 5-Year TDM and TSM Program.



- 56 -                                           Annex 9
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Project Tasks                        Activity Start Date            Activity End Date
1. Congestion Management System
(a) Novo International Facility
(i) Detailed Design                    March 1994                     October 1994
(ii) Prepare Bid Documents              October 1994                   March 1995
(iii) Bidding, Evaluation, Award Contract   April 1995                 June 1995
(iv) Execute work                       July 1995                      July 1996
(b) To2nae Inter-modal Facility
(i) Detailed Design                    March 1994                     October 1994
(ii) Prepare Bid Documents              October 1994                   March 1995
(iii) Bidding, Evaluation, Award Contract   April 1995                 June 1995
(iv) Execute work                       July 1995                      July 1996
(c) East-West Bus Lane
(i) Detailed Design                    March 1994                     October 1994
(ii) Prepare Bid Documents              October 1994                   March 1995
(iii) Bidding, Evaluation, Award Contract   April 1995                 June 1995
(iv) Execute work                       July 1995                      July 1996
(d) 5-Year TDM/TSM Program
(i) Bidding, Evaluation, Award Contract    September 1996              December 1998
(ii) Execute Work                        October 1996                  December 1999
2. Expansion of PUTA capacity
Procurement of Subway Cars
(i) Prepare Bid Documents              March 1994                     October 1994
(ii) Bidding Evaluation, Award Contract    February 1995               June 1996
(iii) Delivery of Cars                  January 1997                   August 1998
3. Institutional Development
(a) Alternative Lone-Term Subway
Financing Study and Pusan Transit Fare
Structure Study
(i) Selection of Consultants           March 1995                     May 1995
(ii) Completion of Study                June 1995                      March 1996
(b) 5-Year TDM/TSM Program Study
(i) Selection of Consultants            January 1995                  March 1995
(ii) Completion of Study: Phase I       April 1995                     May 1996
(iii) Completion of Study: Phase n       May 1996                      December 1996
(d) Technical Assistance: Transport Advisor
to PCG                                  March 1995                     March 1998



- 57 -                                Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Inputs Headquarters
1.           The staff and consultant inputs shown in the following table are in addition to the day-to-
day supervision needs at Bank headquarters required for the review of progress reports, review of
procurement actions, administrative correspondence and the need to respond to the Korean authorities
involved in project implementation. Headquarters actions are estimated to require about (i) three (3) staff
weeks per year in FY1995, FY1996 and FY1997 and, (ii) two (2) staff weeks per year for the reminder
of the project in FY1998 and FY1999.
Bank Supervision Inputs in Korea
2.           Estimates of supervision requirements in Korea (both in Pusan and in Seoul) are shown
in Table 1 which follows.



Table 1: Bank Supervision Inputs
Timning                              Main Activities                             Skills Required           Staff
Weeks
1. First quarter calendar  First Supervision Mission                             * Project management            5
1995                 a. Discussion on requirements for procurement, reporting,  * Procurement
disbursement, adherence to loan covenants, and other     * Financial analysis
administrative arrangements;                             * Transport planning -
b. Updating of project implementation schedule, cost estimates  engineering
and PUTA monitoring indicators;
c. Review project progress and any matters concerning
effectiveness;
d. Finalize TOR for the 5-Year TDM & TSM Study
2. Third quarter        Second Supervision Mission                               * Project management            4
calendar 1995        a. Review project progress and compliance with agreements;    * Procurement/technical (for
b. Emphasis on actions to initiate works/issue "no objections"   subway cars)
for modal facilities, subway car supply; 5-Year TDM & TSM                                             oo
Study; Pusan Transit Fare Structure Study; and activities
likely to include reviews of bids from contractors and
suppliers (for modal terminals, TSM and subway cars) and
proposals from consultants (for Pusan Transit Fare Structure
Study);
3. First quarter calendar  Third Supervision Mission                             * Project management            6
1996                 a. Review project progress, compliance with agreements;  * Procurement/technical (for
emphasis on contractor performance for modal facilities and  subway cars and TDM/TSM
TSM schemes and on consultant (findings on Pusan Transit    actions)
Fare Structure Study and 5-Year TDM & TSM Study);        * Financial analyst for PUTA
b. Review PUTA attainment of monitoring indicators and   indicators
revise as necessary;                                     * Transportation planning-
c. Review performance of MOT training program for past   engineering
year and discuss next year program;
d. Identification of TDM/TSM related investments
,,J



4. Third quarter        Fourth Supervision Mission                               * Project management            4
calendar 1996        a. Review project progress, compliance with agreements;  * Transport planning -
emphasis on contractor performance for modal facilities and  engineering
TSM plan implementation;
b. Review findings and implementation of Pusan Transit Fare
Structure Study and 5-Year TDM & TSM Study;
5. First quarter calendar  Fifth Supervision Mission                             * Project management           4
1997                a. Review project progress and compliance with agreements;    * Transport planning -
b. Preparation of agenda for PUTA's financial performance,    engineering
implementation of the Study recommendations;
6. Third quarter        Sixth Supervision Mission                                * Project management           4
calendar 1997        a. Review project progress and compliance with agreements;    * Procurement/technical (for
emphasis placed on supplier performance for delivery of  subway cars)
subway cars;                                             * Financial analysis
b. Review 5-Year TDM/TSM Program implementation          * Transport planning -
engineering
7. First quarter calendar  Seventh Supervision Mission                           * Project management           4
1998                a. Review project progress and compliance with agreements;    * Procurement/technical (for
emphasis placed on supplier performance for delivery of  subway cars)
subway cars and MOT training program;                    * Transport planning -
b. Review implementation and progress on 5-Year TDM and    engineering
TSM Program;
8. Fourth quarter       Eighth Supervision Mission                               * Project management           3
calendar 1998        a. Preparation of data requirements for ICR;             * Transport planning -
b. Review of progress of the 5-Year TDM and TSM Program;  engineering
c. Review project progress and compliance with agreements;
9. First quarter calendar  Ninth Supervision Mission                             * Project management           2
1999                a. Review project progress and compliance with agreements;
b. Preparation of draft ICR;
o4>-
w o)



- 60-                                Annex 11
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators
Introduction
1.         Project monitoring will involve two aspects (i) monitoring of project progress and (ii) ex-
post evaluation of components. The following sections of the Annex describe the approach and indicators
which will be used in the two monitoring process.
Monitoring of Project Progress
2.   Monitoring of project progress will involve two separate, but related activities:
i.    monitoring the progress of physical implementation; and
ii.   monitoring costs and disbursements.
3.   Monitoring of the physical implementation of the project will be the responsibility of each
implementing agency: PCG for Component A, the TDM/TSM Program, and PUTA for Component B,
the subway rail cars.  The indicators used to measure progress will be based on the Project
Implementation Schedule (Annex 9).  The objective of monitoring is to identify any causes for
implementation delay and to provide a basis to devise remedial actions.
4.   For Component A (TDM/TSM Program), the target dates used to monitor progress will be:
i.   completion of final engineering design and bidding documents (to be completed by
Negotiations for all sub-components);
ii.  issue of bid documents;
iii.  date of contract signature; and
iv.  start/finish dates for works. For Nopo Intermodal Facility and for Tongnae Intermodal
Facility, where civil works are scheduled to be of about, or more than 1 year duration,
target percentages of works complete at intermediate dates will be agreed and used to
monitor progress.
5.   For Component B (PUTA Subway cars), similar key dates (issue of bid documents, contract
signature and delivery of subway carts) will be used to monitor progress.
6.   For Component C (Institutional Development comprising the Pusan Transit Fare Structure Study
and 5-Year TDM and TSM Program Study), the key dates which will be used to monitor progress
(Annex 9) will be:
i.   issue of request for proposals to consultants;



-61-                                   Annex 11
Page 2 of 4
ii.   commencement of study;
iii.  completion of study.
7.   PCG and PUTA will report on the achievement of the target dates in the Bi-Annual Progress
Reports to be sent to the Bank. Each agency will compare progress with schedule targets and devise and
co-ordinate actions to resolve any implementation delays which may have arisen and adjust schedules as
required.
8.   PCG and PUTA are each responsible for the financial management of their components. With
respect to monitoring disbursement performance, PCG and PUTA will report performance in the Bi-
Annual Report to the Bank.
On-Going and Ex-Post Evaluation of Effectiveness
9.   The evaluation will determine the extent to which project objectives are achieved. Indicators have
been devised to assess:
i.   the effectiveness of Component A (TDM/TSM Program) in meeting the travel demand and
performance objectives; and
ii.  the effectiveness of PUTA's progress in debt management.
10.  Component A - Modal Integration Facilities.  A key aim of the facilities is to encourage mode
transfers (from car and bus to subway) at important subway stations. To achieve the transfer from private
vehicles, park-and ride facilities have been provided. The success of the park-and-ride sites will be
measured through parking utilization factors for each site (see Table 1).
11.  Component A - Public Parking. The change in public parking charges is a key policy aspect of
the project. Important aims are (i) to limit long-stay commuter parking and (ii) to cease to subsidize
commuters through unrealistic parking charges. The impact of the new charge policy on overall parking
demand and the nature of demand (short stay, long stay etc) will be assessed from measurements of
parking space utilization and turnover. PCG will collect data on annual parking revenue.
12.  Component A - East West Bus Lane. It is anticipated that the bus lane will improve peak period
on-street bus performance in terms of speed and reliability. However, the measurement of changes in
bus performance in Pusan presents special problems. It is conventional to monitor traffic schemes on a
periodic basis - often once a year. In Pusan, traffic conditions are likely to undergo rapid change for a
number of reasons. First, the rate of growth in vehicle ownership is very high and increases in traffic
demand may disguise bus lane benefits. Second, the construction of Line 2 of the subway may impose
abnormal traffic conditions for an extended period. Given this situation, it is proposed to carry out
simple "before" and "after" surveys to assess the impact of the bus lanes. The ex-post evaluation will
identify performance indicators "before" the scheme is operational (as close as is practical to the start of
implementation) and "after" the scheme has been completed (as soon as traffic conditions have stabilized
following the introduction of the scheme, about 1 to 2 months). The indicators to be used are
demonstrated in Table 1.



- 62 -                                Annex 11
Page 3 of 4
13.  Component B - Debt Management of PUTA. The indicators which will be used to assess PUTA's
debt management performance are shown in Table 1. The definition of the indicators are as follows:
Working Ratio
= (Operating Costs -- Depreciation)/Operating Revenues
Operating Ratio
= Operating Cost/Operating Revenues
Recovery of Working Costs and Vehicle Depreciation
Operating Revenue/(Working Cost + Vehicle Depreciation)
where, Working Cost = Operating Cost -- Depreciation
Debt Service Coverage
= (Total Revenue from All Sources
-- Capital Costs -- Working Cost)/Debt Service
Rolling Stock Depreciation (Replacement Cost method) for year i
- # of Rolling Stock in year i * Unit Price of rail cars in year i
Life of rail cars (25 years)
Rate of Return
= Net Income/Net Fixed Assets
In addition, PUTA will furnish a debt service inventory, which should include the following
items for each outstanding loan:
- origination date
- initial principal
- outstanding principal
- maturity date
- principal amortization (years over which principal is paid)
- principal and interest payment for the year just ended and for the coming year.



- 63 -                                                Annex 11
Page 4 of 4
Table 1: Project Monitoring Indicators
Target value (where applicable) and period
measured
Indicator                  Agency                                                                  Notes
TDM/TSM Program
Modal Integration
Vehicles/space/day at Nopo                 PCG       1997: 0.9 veh/sp/day                             Sample surveys will be
1999: 1.2 veh/sp/day                            conducted about 3 months after
Vehicles/space/day at Tongnae                        1997: 1.6 veh/sp/day                             opening in 1997 and again in
1999: 2.2 veh/sp/day                            1999. One weekday 4 times per
year will be surveyed
Public Parking
Vehicle occupancy per space per day        PCG       Annually in the period 1996 to 1999              Sample surveys on one weekday
(tumover)                                                                                             4 times per year will be
Annual Revenue                                                                                        surveyed
East-West Bus Lane
Number of buses per hour                   PCG       Surveys immediately 'before' construction (about    Surveys will be for:
Number of vehicles per hour                          mid 1996) and about 2 months "after" (about first    * AM and PM peak periods
Average bus speed                                    quarter 1997) construction                       * both directions
Average vehicle speed                                                                                 * survey about 10 journey time
runs for each mode between the
tunnel and the Expressway
junction
* include traffic counts at key
points
PUTA Operations
Annual Ridership                          PUTA       Line 1              Line 2                       Line 2 only from 1998 - planned
Line 1                                               1994                                             date of opening
Line 2                                               1995
Total                                                1996
1997
1998                1998
1999                1999
2000                2000
(Target values in Annex 4)
Average Daily Boardings                   PUTA       NOPO                     TONGNAE                 Average peak hour and daily
Nopo Station                                                Peak     Daily    Peak       Daily        data
Tongnae Station                                      1993   950      11,230  4,030      21,630
1997  1,325    15,654  5,615       30,140
2001  1,535    18,100  6,500       34,820
Financial Performance                     PUTA       For target indicators for each year for each factor    Annual data
Operations Revenue                                   see Annex A and C.
Operations Expenses
Working Ratio
Operating Ratio
Recovery Working Cost & Depreciation
Rate of Retum
Debt Service



- 64 -                                    Annex 12
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement PrGfiles (%)
Disbursement    Cumulative                          Korea
IBRD Fiscal Year              in Quarter   Disbursement
and Quarter                (US$ million)  (US$ million)      %All Se(o0s              Transpo 
1995
March 31, 1995                  0.00           0.00          0
June 30, 1995                   0.50           0.50          1             0              0
1996
September 30, 1995              0.50           1.00          1
December 31, 1995               0.00           1.00          1             6              6
March 31, 1996                  1.20           2.20          2
June 30, 1996                  25.00          27.20         27            14             18
1997
September 30, 1996              1.50          28.70         29
December 31, 1996               1.00          29.70         30            30             34
Narch 31, 1997                 13.50          43.20         43
June 30, 1997                  13.50          56.70         57            50             54
1998
September 30, 1997              3.50          60.20         60
December 31, 1997               2.50          62.70         63            66             66
March 31, 1998                 12.50          75.20         75
June 30, 1998                  12.50          87.70         88            78             78
1999
September 30, 1998              1.00          88.70         89
December 30, 1998               0.80          89.50         90            90             86
March 31, 1999                  7.75          97.25         97
June 30, 1999                   1.25          98.50         99            94             94
2000
September 30, 1999              0.25          98.75         99
December 31, 1999               0.25          99.00         99            98             98
March 31, 2000                  0.00          99.00         99
June 30, 2000                   1.00         100.00         100           100            100



- 65 -                                 Annex 13
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Impact Assessment
Congestion Management Component
1.           The preliminary engineering analysis' undertaken for the modal interchange sites: Nopo
and Tognae and the East-West bus lane, examined site specific environmental implications of proposed
design options. Since, the selected alternatives for implementation involve minor civil works and low
cost traffic engineering measures within the available urban spaces such as existing streets, depot sites
and air-rights over streams, no physical impact have been identified in terms of resettlement or
community disruption. In general, overall impact of this component on the urban environment will be
positive due to the enhanced use of transit and improved transit accessibility for Pusan city and suburban
communities. The general findings of the analysis are summarized below:
2.           Land Use and Economic Development. No impact on the existing and planned land use
is anticipated excepting at the Nopo station site which is within the zone designated as green belt and
water supply source protection zone (Article 20 of City Planning Law). Currently, the Nopo site serves
as the terminal station of the existing line and provides maintenance and yard facilities. The proposed
modal transfer facility will consist of a park-ride lot and taxi and bus drop off/on facilities next to the
existing subway station. To keep the facility at the ground level all new structures will be built on a
concrete deck covering the existing subway lines. Since, the proposed component is expansion of an
existing public facility with no high rise buildings, PCG is in agreement with the proposal and plans to
amend the current zoning restriction following the prescribed Korean procedure that requires MOC's
approval.
3.           Other modal transfer sites are situated within the built-up urban environment and likely
to reinforce the existing development trend around stations. In the case of Nopo, the plan envisages to
accommodate in the long-term, an intercity bus terminal with commercial development by relocating two
existing terminals from the congested urban setting. The proposed alternative for Nopo is designed to
incrementally accommodate the long-term expansion plan at minimal cost. The long-term plan would
require an environmental review process and proposed to be financed by the private sector. The proposed
relocation would generate substantial benefits for bus operators by reducing their travel distance and
improved terminal operations, and for bus users by offering improved access to various modes from the
terminal.
4.            Air Ouality. The construction of four modal transfer facilities would increase subway
use. The impact of above travel behavior would be positive on the air quality considering the fact that
diverted users could have used motorized modes.
5.            Sewage and Solid Waste. Following the directives of MOE on the sewage and solid
waste, amount of generation was estimated for all four modal transfer sites, no problem has been
identified for the alternatives considered for implementation under this project.
'Pusan Modal Integration Facilities and Congestion Management, 1994.



- 66 -                               Annex 13
Page 2 of 5
6.           Noise. Only in the case of Tognae station, where a service road for bus access will be
built, the level of noise perceived by a near by educational institution from the movement of buses
(maximum 153 per hour during peak) was estimated. The estimated level was 34.3dB that is below the
allowable limit of 51.5dB in Korea.
Transit Capacity Expansion Component
8.           The expansion of subway car fleet will have no direct impact on the environment because
the additional cars will ply on the existing Line 1 and the Phase I/Line 2 proposed to open in 1998.
Though project funds will not be used for the on-going construction of Line 2, the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) prepared in compliance with the Basic Environmental Policy Law of Korea, has been
reviewed and found to be acceptable. The critical findings of the EIA process and the report are
summarized below:
EIA Requirements
9.           In Korea, preparation of an environmental impact assessment (EIA) is required by the
Basic Environmental Policy Law (BEPA) for most of the development projects. The Ministry of
Environment (MOE) establishes the guidelines, approves the EIA report, and periodically monitors its
compliance. Public consultation is a mandatory requirement in the EIA process and public announcement
is made through newspapers and public notices. The EIA report is made available for public review and
comment for 20 aays and the results are considered and documented in the final report. A public hearing
is required upon request by the residents. The implementing agency is responsible for the preparation
of the EIA and for the implementation of the mitigation measures and the monitoring program. The EIA
process and guidelines were reviewed and found to be satisfactory.
EIA Study and Approval
10.          EIA Report. The Pusan Urban Transport Authority (PUTA) is the implementing agency
and the EIA study was carried out from November 1990 to April 1991, with assistance from consultants,
Yooshin Engineering Consultant. The report was prepared according to MOE's guidelines and the final
report was submitted to MOE on April 30, 1991. Public consultation was carried out in May 1991, and
the results were included as part of the supplementary report to the EIA. The EIA report was approved
on October 28, 1991. The report and MOE's approval requirements are briefly summarized in the
following subsections.
11.          Description. This component (Line #2) is the expansion of the existing subway system
(Line #1, 32.5 km) in Pusan to double the existing carrying capacity in the year 2000. The Line #2
system would be built along the east-west direction starting from Hopo Depot to Chwadong, with a total
distance of 38.86 km and 37 stations to be built. The line system comprises 2.18 km of elevated section
and 36.68 km of underground section, and its implementation would be carried out in two phases.
During the first phase (1991-95), the main construction activities would include: Hopo Depot; the
elevated section; and 19.62 km of the underground section. The remaining 17.06 km of the underground
section would be constructed during the second phase (1992-96). The construction method for the
underground section would be 25.8 km open cutting and 13.3 km tunnelling.
12.          The Hopo Depot is located on the east bank of the Nakdong River outside the Pusan City
boundaries and is part of a greenbelt area designated by the Ministry of Construction. The Line #2



- 67 -                                    Annex 13
Page 3 of 5
system starts from Hopo Depot, moves southward along the east side of Nakdong River, and then
traverses eastward to the Suyeoung River and the Haeundae area. Most of the subway line would be
constructed under the existing roadways, but limited land acquisition is required (see Section D). The
EIA investigated the existing environmental quality, assessed the impact for both phases, and prepared
the measures to mitigate the negative impacts.
13.           Impact Assessment. The EIA study concluded that implementation of the system would
reduce traffic congestion and increase the capacity and efficiency of transportation along the east-west
direction of urban Pusan, especially for those commuters between the Puk-Gu and Haeundae areas.
Negative impacts are, however, inevitable, but most of them can be minimized. The main negative
impact and its mitigation measures are briefly summarized in Table 1 below. During operation, a small
impact on change in land use and electronic wave impediment hampering TV reception near the elevated
section will occur, but this would not pose any serious problem because the area is non-residential. The
impacts on climate, land ecology, cultural assets, and aesthetics are small and/or temporary.
Table 1
Potential Impacts                          Proposed Mitigation Measures
During construction                              During construction
* Changes in topography due to cut and fill      * Take measures to maintain slope during cut and
activities; soil generation will be 8.9 million cu.m of  fill at 1:1.5 and apply standard stabilization method;
which 2.2 million cu.m will be used for filling and    transfer the remaining soil to depot and housing
the remaining soil will be 6.7 million cu.m.     development areas.
* Possible land subsidence and other impacts due to    * Ensure stability of bed rock during excavation of
infiltration of underground water which is mostly  sandy soil; maintain stability of the slope when
located about 13 m below the ground surface.     excavating permeable sandy and soft ground; carry
out other measures to prevent underground discharge
and land subsidence.
* Increased water pollution due to soil erosion.  * Install a temporary water drainage channel and
water storage.
* Possible soil pollution due to leakage of waste oil
from heavy equipment.                            * Take effective measures to reduce pollutants from
the use of ready mix concrete car.
* Generation of wastes.
* Contract for waste collection and disposal.
* Increased air pollutants: most of the existing air  * Reduce amount of dust generation and distribution
pollutants, except dust (TSP) and hydrocarbons, are   by car washing, cover aggregate pile, effective
within the standards; existing TSP ranges 137-319  management of soil transfer, installing scaffold and
micro gm/cu.m; the heavy equipment will emit 12.5   panel; controlling speed limit (20 km/hr) and car
kg/d TSP and 327.9 kg/d N02; the construction    overload; efficient operation of equipment;
facilities will emit 339.8 kg/d TSP; the soil transfer   monitoring.
activity will emit 24.4 kg/d TSP; the model indicates
the maximum levels of 0.40-0.42 mg/l N02 and
1,053-1,235 micro g/cu.m TSP which exceed the
standards; these impacts are temporary, however.



- 68 -                                     Annex 13
Page 4 of 5
Potential Impacts                            Proposed Mitigation Measures
* Increased noise levels: noise will be 77-86 dBA at  * Reduce noise generation and distribution by
50 m from the construction site and 71-80 dBA at   limiting work hours (06.00-18.00); attaching anti-
100 m away; these levels also exceed noise standards  noise equipment; pre-notification of blasting to
during construction of 75 dBA.                     residents and carrying out measures to reduce the
noise; temporary installation of noise absorbing
* Increased vibration due to blasting; levels of   walls; monitoring.
vibration at existing stations range from 65-67 dB
and those at a distance of 10-20 m from the tract  * Control vibration by blasting within the allowable
range from 51-57 dB; the standards are 65 dB for   limit of 1 cm/sec; careful construction according to
residential areas and 75 dB for commercial areas.  the design.
* Obstruct traffic flow and increase traffic volume  * Install temporary overpass for pedestrians;
due to equipment and material transport.           dispatch traffic coordinators and install traffic signs;
prohibit the work of heavy equipment and blasting
during rush hours; recover the street surface over
the excavated areas along the line; expand street
surface by procurement of land and/or reduction of
sidewalk.
* Compensation for land acquisition and            * Provide compensation according to the Subway
underground zone use.                              Construction law.
During operation                                   During operation
* Increase levels of water pollution and amount of  * Install a separate wastewater treatment facility at
waste generation: about 770 kg/d of solid waste and   depot (600 m3/d); send the wastewater produced
4.7-23 cu.ml6 months of septic tank sludge will    from the stations to the nearby treatment plants;
come from stations; about 1.52 tlyr specified waste,   contract the services for all waste materials; reuse
77.6 t/yr waste oil, and 11.4 t/yr general waste will   waste oil from the car depot.
come from depot.
* Small increase in air pollutants due to passengers  * Control air into station by filtering; set up plan for
underground; the underground TSP is expected to be   ventilation of underground station; operate automatic
similar to indoor level (300 micro g/m3).          ventilation system.
* In the elevated section, noise will be 75, 71, 68,  * No action since there are no residents within 50 m
and 65 dBA at the points located 10, 20, 30, and 50   from the tract.
m away, respectively; there are no residents within
50 m from the track.                               * Reduce vibration at source by reducing car weight
and improving track smoothness via three methods:
* Vibration will be 65-71 dB, 57-63 dB, and 53-59    Ballast Mat method (reduce 3-5 dB); rail weighing
dB at 10, 30, 50 m away from the tract.            and elastic fastening (rubber pad reduce 3-4 dB); rail
lengthening (reduce 2-3 dB).
14.            Alternatives were also considered in the study for several areas, including the route
design, location of stations, methods of construction, and ventilation system for the underground. An
environmental management plan was established, including monitoring of air, noise, vibration, and water
quality during construction and operation.



- 69 -                                 Annex 13
Page 5 of 5
15.          Requirements for EIA Approval. In approving the EIA, MOE directed PUTA to carry
out the proposed mitigation measures, including the following:
a.     Provide adequate compensation to prevent objections by the people and take adequate
measures to prevent damage due to land subsidence; influence of underground water;
geologically unstable area; and excessive soil.
b.     During construction, comply with the flying dust control regulation; seek advice from
responsible agencies for the use of explosives; minimize amount of blasting near the city
areas; collect and properly dispose of toxic materials such as waste oils, metal slack, etc.;
use piling methods which create less noise and vibration (oil pressure type) in the dense
residential areas; if shock-piling is used, avoid night-time work; quickly install hole
covering in the areas where vehicles pass overhead and taken measures to reduce noise
and vibration; install temporary noise-absorbing walls in the sensitive areas; take
measures to ease traffic congestion.
c.     Prohibit the use of harmful materials such as asbestos in the sound absorbing and
insulation of the underground; install automatic filters in the air conditioners and air
feeder machine of the underground stations and install ventilation facilities using the
ventilation tower method; closely monitor the underground air quality; provide adequate
greenbelt around the depot area; and provide adequate safety measures for the system.
d.     During operation, if air quality in the stations exceeds the standards, take effective
measures to correct it; at the depot area, collect and properly dispose of toxic materials
such as waste oils; install anti-noise barriers in sensitive areas; prohibit the discharge of
wastewater without treatment; close coordination with the agency responsible for the
nearby sewage treatment plants, if the treatment capacity is inadequate, a separate
treatment facility must be installed; at depot, provide an effective treatment (more than
septic tanks) with a separate collection system; install adequate containers for garbage and
set up a plan to promote waste recycles.
16.          MOE also indicated the need to implement and evaluate the effectiveness of the follow-up
environmental management plan and submit the results to Pusan MOE Regional Office once a year from
1991-2000.
EIA Review and Status of Its Compliance
17.          During the appraisal mission, the EIA report and other related documents were reviewed
and found to be satisfactory. Construction of the underground line has been carried out since December
1991 and the mitigation measures are being carried out by the contractors and periodically monitored by
MOE Regional Office. PUTA also complies with the MOE's monitoring requirements. A site visit to
a construction area indicated no serious impact and about 30 % of the construction work in budget terms
was accomplished. Land acquisition is almost completed and no public objection was observed.
18.          It is anticipated that this project would encourage the Ministry of Transportation (MOT)
to introduce a comprehensive project planning/environmental assessment practice for all future urban
subway projects. Active participation of PUTA's staff in this program would be important to strengthen
the capacity to deal with the environmental issues.



- 70 -                                 Annex 14
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Land Acquisition, Compensation & Relocation Program
Policy and Legal Framework
1.         Korean resettlement policy is based on the need to alleviate the economic and social
consequences of compulsory acquisition of land and assets. Fair and prompt compensation for losses
suffered underlie Korean law and practice. Displaced persons are assisted to regain their former living
standards, and income or production levels.
2.         Land Acquisition.  Acquisition proceedings by public agencies including provincial
governments, are governed by the "Special Law on Acquisition and Compensation of Lands for Public
Use", which has been in force since December 31, 1975. Mandatory land purchase for development
projects is covered by this law and is initiated by a public notice of the proposed land acquisition. Under
the law, the responsible project agency makes the initial surveys and investigations, prepares a
preliminary valuation of compensation payable for property, loss of livelihood, relocation expenses, etc
and forwards these estimates to the project implementation office for verification and discussion with the
affected persons. This normally occurs about six months in advance of finalization of the acquisition
proceedings, and is part of a specific development plan that details the relocation needs and compensation
aspects.
3.         Almost simultaneously, the project agency refers these initial surveys to two private valuers,
who are licensed under the law to make independent valuations of compensation payable to the affected
persons. These independent valuations are made in accordance with guidelines framed under the law and
are based on the valuer's professional judgement after taking both market prices and book values into
consideration. The average published valuation of the two independent valuers' assessments form the
basis for final negotiations with the affected persons and, being generally fair and reasonable, are
accepted by the majority of those affected. Where no agreement is reached, the Ministry concerned or
the project agency must negotiate the purchase price with the landowners. In the event these negotiations
fail, the affected parties are entitled to make an appeal to a Land Expropriation Appeals Committee,
which is set up under the Law by the concerned City or Province or the Ministry of Construction as the
case may be, to hear and adjudicate such cases between the parties and determine compensation.
4.         The general experience is that about 10% of affected persons make an appeal to this
Committee mainly to get a reassessment of property values based on anticipated appreciation resulting
from the proposed improvements for which the land is being acquired. In the rare event that the
Committee's findings are unacceptable to the parties concerned, recourse is always available to the Law
Courts under the general laws. These proceedings are seen to be and are accepted as fair and reasonable
and normally take from 6-9 months.
5.         Comnpensation. As stated earlier, compensation is determined by independent professional
valuations. Compensation is payable for both affected movable and immovable property as well as for
loss of crops and other assets, loss of livelihood (on average up to three months of estimated foregone
earnings), loss of house rental deposits of displaced tenants, and relocation expenses. Relocation could
be offered in a resettlement complex. Compensation was paid in cash until 1993 but now an election
could be made to be paid in government securities, which offer some capital gains and tax concessions
to land owners. Assistance is also generally provided to disadvantaged families to relocate, find suitable
accommodation, schooling and health facilities. Poorer families are subsidized for the hardship caused



- 71 -                                 Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
by the relocation. Compensation is also payable to tenants who have lived in the affected house for at
least three months.
6.         Relocation. The Special Law on Acquisition and Compensation of Lands referred to earlier
contains specific provisions on resettlement.  In addition to compensation, where more than ten
households are affected at one site, the project agency is expected to provide housing at a resettlement
site, including basic infrastructure, such as roads, water and sanitation. The criteria for eligibility under
the law is residence on the site to be acquired on the date of approval of the development plan for the
project. The Korean system of residency registration makes verification of eligibility easy. Owner
occupiers have the option to purchase a new plot of land at a discounted price or a price controlled
apartment on a priority basis. Provincial governments usually give first priority to displaced persons in
the allocation of units in public housing programs. Finally, project design aims to avoid or minimize
resettlement.
7.         Institutional Arranzements. To expedite the adjudication of cases in dispute, the law
established a Central Land Expropriation Committee in the Ministry of Construction and Local Land
Expropriation Committees in the major cities and in each Province. These committees have provided an
established institutional mechanism for dealing with land acquisition since 1975, also broadening the scope
of the policy for dealing with involuntary resettlement in the process. The Central Land Expropriation
Committee, which is the highest policy making and appellate body, is chaired by the Ministry of
Construction and includes judges, lawyers, professors of law and high ranking public servants. The
Ministry of Construction is, therefore, charged with the main responsibility for implementing the land
acquisition policy, which in practice is delegated to the appropriate enterprise, provincial or city authority
level.
Past Bank Experience in Korea
8.         Experience with major resettlement and compensation issues in earlier Bank assisted projects
has been good. Despite rising land acquisition costs, the Korean authorities have offered fair and prompt
compensation to affected people. In the completed Chungju multipurpose project, US$172 million was
spent compensating 9,300 families, 7,100 of whom were actually resettled, at a per family cost of over
US$18,000. In the recent Road Improvement project, land acquisition costs totaled US$286 million and
per capita resettlement for over 2,400 people was US$11,740. In the Taegu Urban Transport Project,
the provincial authorities satisfactorily compensated and relocated some 2,370 families. In a recent study,
OED has evaluated the resettlement outcome of the Chungju project and the First Water Supply Project
as satisfactory.
Status of PUTA's Phase I/Line 2 Compensation Program
9.         Though no project funds have been used to support the on-going construction of Line 2, the
land acquisition and compensation procedure followed by PUTA was reviewed. By June 1994, PUTA
had completed all land acquisition and compensation linked with the Phase I/Line 2 construction. A
major portion of this line is underground, hence land acquisition was limited to the station areas and at
the Hopo Depot site. Within the built-up areas particularly where roads are narrow, construction for
station and ventilation ducts necessitated acquisition of properties. A total of 376,547 sq.m of land was
acquired, including 107 houses and 104 graves (see Table 1 for detail). The affected population consisted
of 107 property owner households, 90 renter families and 247 businesses. The land acquisition and
compensation was carried out in compliance with the Korean Laws, which have been generally found
satisfactory. The average rate for property compensation was US$180/sq.m for land and US$68,500 per
building structure. Average resettlement/relocation compensation is estimated to be US$1,500/owner
household, US$4,000/renter household and US$13,000/business.



- 72 -                                         Annex 14
Page 3 of 3
10.   The decision on the level of compensation was made in May 1993 and reconsidered for about 20%
of the affected population that was not satisfied with the compensation level. Following the re-evaluation
of those cases by two new evaluators, a final decision was made in April 1994. Due to some (10%)
decline in property values between 1993 and 1994, the proposed compensation level in 1993 was found
to be higher than the current market value per PUTA officials. The compensation level for a civil
structure was estimated by calculating the cost of building a similar structure at prevailing prices with
adjustment for its age.
Table 1: Status of Compensation Progress for Phase 1 Line 2
(Won mnillion)
category                            Planned           Complete              %
1.    Land/Property Acquisition
a.     Plots (#)                                          436                436              100
Car depot                                   247                247              100
Elevated Section                            159                 159             100
Underground                                  30                  30             100
Area (Sq.m)                                    376,547             376,547             100
Car depot                               358,413             358,413             100
Elevated Section                         16,001              16,001             100
Underground                               2,133               2,133             100
Compensation (W mill.)                          54,225              54,225             100
Car depot                                31,982              31,982             100
Elevated Section                         21,908              21,908             100
Underground                                 335                 335             100
b.     Buildings (#)                                      107                 107             100
Area (Sq.m)                                     25,131              25,131             100
Compensation (W mill.)                           5,871               5,871             100
c.     Cemetery                                           104                 104             100
Area (Sq.m)
Compensation (W mill.)                             124                 124             100
d.     Residual Land (*1)                                  58                  16             100
Area (Sq.m)                                      2,898                841              100
Compensation (W mill.)                             342                 83              100
Total Compensation (W mill.)                           60,562              60,303             100
2.     Affected Population/Business
a.     Resident Property Owners (#)                       107                 107             100
Relocation Compensation (W mill.)                  126                 126             100
b.     Renters (#)                                         90                 90              100
Relocation Compensation (W mill.)                  295                295              100
c.     Businesses (#)                                     247                247              100
Relocation Compensation (W mill.)                2,598               2,598             100
Total Relocation Compensation (W mill.)                 3,019               3,019             100
Total Compensation (W mill.)                    63,581              63,322             100



- 73 -                               Annex 15
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1.           The economic evaluation has been carried out for the modal integration facilities included
as part of the Traffic Demand Management and for the Transportation System Management components.
Separate economic evaluations were carried out for:
a.    each of the modal integration facilities at Nopo and Tongnae; and
b.    for the East-West Bus Lane and traffic scheme between Mandok-ro and Chonyol-ro.
2.           The following sections define the methodology and key assumptions included in the
analysis. Full details are present in a preparation study carried out by Korean consultants'.
Modal Transfer Stations
Traffic Forecasts
3.           The design and economic analysis of proposed modal transfer facilities was based on the
development of future year travel demand estimates "with" and "without" the proposed improvements.
For prediction of 1993, 1997 and 2001 subway boardings by access modes, an extensive network based
modelling procedure was developed using the TRANPLAN software, previous estimates of subway
riderships, survey results of current mode transfer behavior and professional judgement.
Key Inputs
4.           Trip Tables. The main source for the base (1991) and future year (1997 and 2001) travel
demand estimates by mode (auto, bus and subway) has been the trip tables developed by the Korean
Transport Institute (KOTI) under a Comprehensive Transportation Planning Study for Pusan. Since KOTI
trip tables were prepared for 1991, 1996, 1998 and 2003, an interpolation procedure was applied to
generate two new trip tables representing 1997 and 2001. KOTI had developed a traditional four-step
process (trip generation, trip distribution, mode split and trip assignment) using the socio-economic
forecasts for 80 traffic zones and separate networks for highway and transit modes. All future highway
and subway expansion projects were included in the networks at their planned opening years. The
general assumptions on the city-wide demographic and car ownership growth and the estimated values
for trip rates and mode shares for future years are presented in the table below:
'Pusan Modal Integration Facilities and Congestion Management, Final Report, Yooshin Engineering
Corporation, Seoul, January 1994, and a technical memo dated August, 1984.



- 74 -                                Annex 15
Page 2 of 8
Table 1: Demographic Data and Travel Characteristics of Pusan
Year
Characteristics             1991            1997            2001
Population (million)                3.89            4.31            4.54
(1.72)         (1.31)
Employment (million)                1.61            1.81            1.97
(1.96)         (2.14)
Vehicle Population                 346,400        579,200         813,200
(13.71)         (8.85)
Car Population                     213,500         360,900        509,100
(9.10)         (8.98)
Unlinked Trips/Person               1.64            1.82            1.96
(1.74)         (1.87)
Linked Trips/person                 1.48            1.61            1.71
(1.40)         (1.52)
Cars/Person (000)                   54.9            83.7          179.11
(7.25)         (20.94)
Mode Shares (in %)
Cars                              16.8           18.6            17.9
Taxi                              19.9           21.3            16.7
Bus                              51.3            43.7           40.7
Subway                            8.8            13.4           22.5
Others                            3.2             3.0            2.7
NOTE: Numbers in parentheses represent annual growth rates in %.
5.            Supplementary Surveys. The coarse traffic zone system and the adopted network analysis
techniques in the KOTI study placed severe constraints on the prediction of subway boardings by various
access modes. These limitations were resolved by adopting ancillary procedures based on field surveys.
The arrival behavior of transit users at subway stations was analyzed using survey data collected at three
existing subway stations that are considered for modal transfer facilities, and at two inter-city bus
terminals that are planned to be relocated near the Nopo station. In addition, a separate survey on the
existing usage pattern of park-and-ride facilities that are situated near the stations, was also undertaken.
Estimation of "Without" Scheme Traffic
6.            A transit network reflecting the revised schedule for the subway expansion, details of
existing bus services and transfer link characteristics at the proposed modal interchange sites was



75-                                  Annex 15
Page 3 of 8
modelled. Future transit networks assumed the opening of the Phase I of Line-2 in 1997 and the entire
Line-2 in 2001. No change in the existing bus routes was assumed due to the static nature of demand
and services observed in the past. The bus and subway trip tables were combined into transit trip tables
and assigned to 1991, 1997 and 2001 "without scheme" transit networks using "all-or-nothing"
procedures. This procedure allowed allocation of trips between bus and subway to be made independent
of the earlier KOTI allocation but assumed that overall transit trips remained unchanged. Network
parameters, particularly those reflecting transfer penalties at subway station, were successively adjusted
until the resultant subway ridership estimates by the various access modes matched the 1991 control
totals. These control totals were established from the supplementary surveys of subway passengers at
selected stations (Nopo, Tognae and Kyodaep). The magnitude of applied transfer penalties were checked
to see how well they reflected the effects of waiting, walking and additional fare payment in the case of
bus to subway transfer. For the estimation of station boardings on Line-I extended and Line 2, the
control totals were taken from the forecasts prepared under the KOTI study, modified for the revised
construction schedule of above subway lines.
Estimation of "With" Scheme Traffic
7.            The transit networks were updated to reflect the "with scheme" conditions and the
assignment procedure was repeated using the same transit trip tables as for the "without scheme" for each
future year. The difference between "with" and "without" bus/subway transfer volumes at selected
stations represented the impact of proposed modal transfer facilities and associated transit service
improvement. No major bus rerouting was assumed except in the case of the one new station, Hadan,
which is located at the southern end of the Line-l extended. A bus route connecting the Chimhae area
across the river was proposed for rerouting to connect Hadan station.
8.            The share of park-ride passengers was determined on the basis of proposed capacity of
parking facilities near each station and the observed utilization pattern of existing facilities (peak factors,
auto occupancy, etc.). All new park-ride passengers were assumed to be diverted from auto, an
assumption which is reasonable in the context of Pusan. The future volumes of other access modes (bus,
taxi and walk) were estimated by adjusting the existing shares to reflect the city wide mode shifts
predicted by KOTI. Since Hadan station was not open, mode of arrival was estimated on the basis of
an average of the observed shares of access modes at Nopo, Tognae and Kyodaep stations. The park-ride
share was calculated using the observed parking characteristics at Nopo which is the terminal station in
the north.
9.            The above procedure was carried out for each of the four proposed mode transfer stations.
Only in the case of Nopo, where both long and short-distance intercity buses are proposed to drop/pick
passengers under the Phase I plan and terminate after the relocation of their terminals under the Phase
II, the analysis included calculation of additional transfe; volumes generated by intercity bus passengers.
These estimates were based on the observed arrival/departure behavior of intercity bus passengers and
the assumed future growth of intercity bus passenger trips. No change was assumed in the long-distance
bus market following the planned opening of the high speed rail service between Seoul and Pusan, and
the expected increase in future air travel.
Proiect Benefits
10.          The benefits of the proposed modal transfer facilities consist of transfer time savings for
existing subway passengers mainly due to the reduction in walking time within the facility and/or
relocation of bus stops; travel time savings for diverted car and bus users to subway; changes in operating



- 76 -                                 Annex 15
Page 4 of 8
costs of rerouted bus services; and small changes in operating costs of subway for carrying diverted
passengers. Since the impact of car diversion from road to subway is negligible, it was excluded from
the analysis. The following sections define the assumption and methodology for the estimation of benefits
of the modal transfer facilities.
11.          Transfer Time Savings. Transfer time savings at each modal transfer sites were computed
by comparing the impact of physical layouts (e.g., pedestrian bridge, underpass, bus stop location, etc.)
under "with" and "without" improvement cases on the walking time of existing subway passengers. The
walking speed was assumed to be 1.2 m/sec.
12.          Travel Time Savings. Travel time savings were estimated separately for auto users
diverting to park-and-ride and bus users diverted to bus/subway. The difference in vehicle-kms of travel
by each mode was calculated by comparing the "with" and "without" scheme. The change was converted
into time (or vehicle hours) using an average speed of travel for the mode considered. The average speed
for subway and cars was computed from selected major origin-destination pairs; the trip table assisted
in identifying major destination zones. The computation of travel time by subway included walk, wait,
and in-vehicle times. The average occupancy of cars was assumed 12. In addition, it was assumed that
about 80% of park-ride spaces will be utilized once a day and the remaining 20% twice in a day.
13.          Value of Time. Travel time of vehicle users was valued at 30 % of the average wage rate,
for all peak period travel. The analysis assumed the monthly wage of 1.29 million won and 0.85 million
won for car/taxi and bus users respectively. These values translate into hourly time values of 2058 won
(US$2.57) and 1361 won ($US1.7) for an 8-hour work day and 26 work days per month.
14.          Changes in Vehicle Operating Costs. The distance and time (or average running speed)
related vehicle operating costs included the conventional items of fuel, tire, oil, maintenance, driver
wages and vehicle capital costs. The analysis adopted the unit operating cost per vehicle-km for each
vehicle type and speed ranges under an ideal traffic condition as developed by KHRIS. Changes in the
operating costs of modified bus routes and diverted car users to park-ride were computed for each station
site with such impacts. For the estimation of operating cost changes the increase/decrease in peak
vehicle-km of travel for each mode was first annualized (280 days/year) and then multiplied by the
appropriate unit costs.
Economic Evaluation of Intermodal Facilities
15.          Based on the Study assumptions and methodology, the conventional economic indicators
were calculated namely, Benefit/Cost (B/C) Ratio and with a discount rate of 12%, Net Present Value
(NPV), and Economic Internal-Rate-of-Return (EIRR) (see Tables 2 and 3).  Capital costs were
established from the preliminary engineering designs. The life of the scheme was assumed to be 20
years.
16.          The sensitivity analyses were carried out using the basic findings from the Study. The
results are shown in Table 4.



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Comparison of Costs and Benefits of Nopo Intermodal Facility
(unit: million won)
COSTS                         __________    __________          BENEFITS               _______
Year       Construction      P&R Lot         Total   Present  Time Savings     Savings in  Time Savings   Time Savings    Total      Present
Costs      Operating/Maint.   Costs    Worth        by P&R        VOC by       By the Bus    by the Bus  Benefits    Worth of
Costs                 of Total        Users    P&R Users       Bay Users       Layover                Benefts
_______   Cost   _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _                    Space  Users  _ _ _ _
1995         4891.9                        4891.9   4891.9                                                                 0.0          0.0
1996         3261.2                         3261.2   2911.8                                                                0.0          0.0
1997                          236.1         236.1    188.2          450.9          828.8          80.8          133.5   1494.0        1191.0
1998                          236.1         236.1    168.0          534.3          865.4          83.4          152.1   1635.2        1163.9
1999                          236.1         236.1    150.0          633.0          903.1          86.2          175.6   1797.9        1142.6
2000                          236.1          236.1    134.0          728.3         931.6          89.1          207.3   1956.3        1110.1
2001                          236.1          236.1     119.6         840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0        1083.7
2002                          236.1          236.1     106.8         840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         967.6
2003                          236.1          236.1     95.3          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         863.9
2004                          236.1          236.1     85.1          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         771.3
2005                          236.1          236.1     76.0          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         688.7
2006                          236.1          236.1     67.9          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         614.9
2007                          236.1          236.1     60.6          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         549.0
2008                          236.1          236.1     54.1          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         490.2
2009                          236.1          236.1     48.3          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         437.7
2010                          236.1          236.1     43.1          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         390.8
2011                          236.1          236.1     38.5          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         311.5
2012                          236.1          236.1     34.4          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         311.5
2013                          236.1          236.1     30.7          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0        278.2
2014                          236.1          236.1     27.4          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0        248.4
2015                          236.1          236.1     24.5          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0        221.7
2016                          236.1          236.1     21.9          840.4         961.3          92.0          245.3   2139.0         198.07
TOTAL        8153.1          4721.4        12874.5   9378.1        15792.9       18909.7        1811.5         4593.3  41107.4       13072.1
Discountrate = 12%                                                                                                                           x 
NVP = 3694.0 million won
B/C= 1.39389
IRR = 0.17891



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Comparison of Costs and Benefits of Togue Intenoodal Faciity
(unit: million won)
_~~~01 __                                                                                                           BEH1l = = -                                                  ____,==    ;i# 
Yewr      Cououcn    oi M             Total        t    Time         VOC         T1_f:r            Loa( oTne :aat   1kr Tue   Trnser Tom           Tndua       Tmrae Tine     Total     Pmrn Worm
Camts      Cos for      Co      Wt1h of   Saing        Sawinp;    ride Savinp by   by Nqop           SaViogaby     3Svinsc by        rTe          Savas by      Bneft        oToal
P&R                Taul       by PAR      by PAR      Soh of            M*OWY thsr     Noah            South of        Savinp bfy   : ic                        Scfits
Lots               cow        ot Uer    Lot Users   dhto Eig    (WsEast)o                             Cb o            P               Unu
(W~e"ewo                         &*Ml,(F*       BMrwlw ih-
_______                     is            _       _:_:_,_:  W est)   Usrs  East)   .sers  , . __A )_N
1995        3726.0                   3726.0     3726.0                                                                                                                           0.0            0.0
1996        2484.0                   2484.0    2217.9                                                                                                                            0.0            0.0
1997                      154.9       154.9      123.5       288.5       604.4        89.1            -153.4          179.3           62.4         132.8          20.3        1223.9          975.7
1996                      154.9       154.9      110.2       349.4       631.0        92.4            -152.2          186.2           64.7         138.0          20.8         1330.3         946.9
1999                      154.9       154.9      98.4        421.3       658.5        95.6            -150.9          193.3          67.0          143.5          20.8        1449.1          920.9
2000                      154.9       154.9      87.90       490.8       679.4        99.2            -149.5          200.7           69.5         149.1          20.8         1560.0         885.2
2001                      154.9       154.9       78.5       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         853.4     '
00
2002                      154.9       154.9      70.18       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         762.0
2003                      154.9       154.9       62.6       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         680.3
2004                      154.9       154.9       55.9       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         607.4
2005                      154.9       154.9       49.9       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         542.4
2006                      154.9       154.9       44.5       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         484.3
2007                      154.9       154.9       39.8       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         432.4
2008                      154.9       154.9       35.5       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         386.0
2009                      154.9       154.9       31.7       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         344.7
2010                      154.9       154.9       28.3       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         307.8
2011                      154.9       154.9       25.3       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         274.8
2012                      154.9       154.9       22.6       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         245.3
2013                      154.9       154.9       20.1       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         219.1
2014                      154.9       154.9       18.0       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         195.6
2015                      154.9       154.9       16.1       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         174.6
2016                      154.9       154.9       14.3       572.6       701.0        102.9           -148.2          208.4           72.0          155.0         20.8         1684.5         155.9
TOTAL        6210.0      3097.8      9307.8     6977.1     10711.6      13789.3       2022.7          -2977.2        4093.9          1415.6        3043.4        416.0        32515.3       10394.6
Discountrate = 12%
NVP = 3417.5 million won
B/C =  1.48982
IRR = 0.19116
co 



- 79 -                                 Annex 15
Page 7 of 8
Table 4: Sensitivity Analysis Results for the Nopo and Tognae Intermodal Facilities
(based on Study findings)
EIRR
Test Scenarios                         Nopo                 Tognae
1.  Basic study conclusions                             18%                   19%
2.  Without time savings benefits                         5%                   5%
3.  With only 50% time savings benefits                 12%                   13%
4.  With 25 % increase in construction costs            14%                   15%
5.  With 15 % increase in construction costs and        14%                   15 %
15% reduction in time savings benefits
17.   Both the Nopo and Tognae schemes exhibit reasonable levels of return under all likely scenarios.
They fail only under the most pessimistic assumption of no travel time savings benefits. However, the
scheme has a major objective of improving interchange for passengers (bus-subway), and it would be
reasonable to recognize person time cost savings in the analysis.
East-West Bus Lane Schemes
Traffic Flows and "Without" Scheme Case
18. Traffic and bus flows used in the evaluation are based on existing observed volumes. To enable
impacts of the proposed scheme to be assessed, a traffic simulation model (TRANSYT 7F) was calibrated
to replicate the observed existing traffic operations (speeds, delays etc).
"With" Scheme Case
19.   Changes in average speeds and travel times for buses and road users were produced by application
of the TRANSYT 7F simulation model to the "with" bus lane scenario. Total time savings was computed
using the average observed occupancy rates (30 persons for bus and 1.2 for car) and shares of various
vehicles in the existing traffic stream.
20.    The Study assessed the changes in speeds "with" and "without" the bus lanes for both buses and
other vehicles. From a traffic model, the Study assesses that speeds will change as follows:
Without the Scheme          With the Scheme
Buses                14.8 km/h                    19.5 km/h
Other traffic        16.6 km/h                    14.9 km/h
Scheme Benefits
21.    The East-West bus lane scheme will result in the following impacts: changes in travel time for
bus passengers; changes in travel time of car users; changes in operating costs of all road users including
bus, car, taxi and truck traffic. The changes were quantified in economic terms using similar key inputs



- 80 -                                 AnX  1S
Page 8 of 8
to the evaluation (value of time, vehicle operating costs and so forth) to those employed in the modal
transfer facilities evaluation.
22.    A number of sensitivity tests were carried out using the basic outputs of the Study. The results
of the sensitivity tests are shown in Table 5.
Table 5: Economic Evaluation of East-West Bus Lanes
1.  Basic study conclusions (corrected)                65.7%
2.  As 1 but with running costs of the facility excluded;  73.4%
physical maintenance costs included
3.  As 2 but with VOC benefits only                     NA
4.  As 2 but with only 50% of travel time savings      38.2%
5.  As 4 but with costs increased by 25%               24.9%



- 81 -               Annex 16
Page 1 of 19
ANNEX A:
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BASE CASE SCENARIO



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                          Page 1 of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMEENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Table 1: Actual & Forecast Income Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
Base Case Scenario
(in mnillions of current won)
_________     ~~ACTUAL           _______________ _____FORECAST
ITEM                       1990         1991        19921        1993        1994         1995         1996         1997        1998         19991       2000
UNIT VOLUMES
Riderh 000OsJ  -                  176,060      181,877     192,084      203,704 _ 208,737        230,222 _ 232,768   _241,389          335.421      441,471     446,383
Track Kilomneters   __26.1                        26. 1       26 1 __      261 1        30.5       -325  _       32,5  _      32.5        32.5          495.
Riesi 90yeTakK                      6,746        6,968       7,360        7,805        6,834       7,084        7,162        7,427      10,321-       8,041        8,131
9p  rainncorne pe_ Aider            (0.10)       (007)_ (09) (0.09          _     _8  ff0.04) __- (00).0   0.00                     0.00               (20  -      (004
Op Income (mil.) per Track Km        (672r        (501)       (640)J~      (61)         (272)       (2051          (51        (17j1        (17)        (409)        (286)
OPERATING REVENUE"S (1)                       _--_  --                                             _
Passenger Fares    - --29,578                   38,376      41,375       44,000       67,005      73,901       82,400       85.452     130,814 _ 172,174 __191,945
Other Revenue                       1,263        1,781       2,212        5,474        3,825       4,683        5,326        4,954       5,262        8,680        8,824
total revenues    30,841      40,157       43,587       49,474       70,829      78,584       87,726       90,405     136,076      180,854     200,769
6P-ERATiNG ExPiNsESj'2)                  _ _ -                          _       _                                    --_     -                         -
Labor          __22,356 _    2-6,543                        26, 183 _    31,954       37, 820  _ 42,210        4-4,320 _    46,536   _48.863         91,160-      97,673
Materials 8.Suppl ies  -1,9 70                   2,420       1,477        2,702        3,214       3,4-44       3,461      -3,556        3.654        7,195      -7,766
Electric Power ____4,169   -3908                             4,325    _4,399 _         7,557 _     8,081        8,081        8,283       8,490       17,626       19,182               0
Other Expenses &Claimns               430         337        8,327        4,826        6,117       6,897        7,242        7,604       7,984       18,274       20.068
subtotal: working costs  28,925       33,208       40,312 ,    43,881       54,708       60,631      63,104       65,979       68,992     134,255      144,689
Depreciation:___
RollingTSock (2A) ___           4,380       5,132        5,245        5,824       7,878  _     8,052        8,229  __ 8,410         20,028       21,460 _    24,170
Facilities & Equipment         15,070      14,893       14,72        15842        16,559      16,559       16,59559        59       4,67         47,617      4,1
subtotal, depreciation  19,450       20,025       19,966      21,666       24,438      24,611       24,788 1     24,969       67,645      69,077       71,787
total operating expenses   48,375      53.233       60,278       65,547      79,146       85,243       87,892       90,949     136,637      203,332     216,476
OPERATING INCOME / (LOSS)              (17,534)    (13,0761 -   (16,691)    _1_03)         8,317) . . 6,6585) _ __1"6   ___53                  560) - (22,477j -   (15,707)
NON-OPDERATING_INCOME t)___         -31,357 _       37,316      37,718       11,052  ___       0 _         0-          -0       0-               0 _0                      0
NON-OPERATING EXPENSES (4)                        -
Interest (net)    ____64,300                    64.314      64,423       47,518       77,515  _109,962 _ 143,363           171,284     207,373      239,873      281,543
Others                             68,071       34,632      22,039       19,503            0           0            0            0           0            0            0
total non-operating expenses  132,371      98,946       86,462       67,021      77,515      109,962      143,363      171,264     207,373      239,873     281,543
EXTRAORDINARY INCOME (5)_  .~               9)           3         139 ___        0 _          0 _         0 ___        0       _    0           0            0  _         0
NET INCOME/ (LOSS)                   (118,557)     (74,703)    (65.296)    (72,042)      (85,832)   (116,620)   (143,529)    (171,827)   (207,933)    (262,351)   (297,250)
INDICATORS!                                                                                                                                                         -------_  _  __
Working Ratio (6)                       93.8% __-82.7% ___92.5%               68.7%        77.2%        77.2%   __71.9%          73.0%   _ 50.7%          74.2%,'      72.1%
O2eratin  Ratio (7)          ~~~~156.9% __132.6%       138.3%      132.5%       111.7%       108.5%/     100.2%       100.6%       100.4%      112.4%  _ 107.8%/
Rate_of_Rieturn on Net Fixed Assets (8)  --2.3% _- -1.7%/         -2.2%/       -2.1%        -1.1%       -0.9%/       -0.0%       -0.1%  ... . 0.0%     -.1.3%           -0.9%           0
Recovery of Working Costs                                                                                                                                                                -
& Rolling Stock Depreciation (9)     92.6%      104.7%        95.7%        99.5%      113.2%/o     114.4%1      123.0%/     121.5%1      152.9%1      116.1%      118.9%l            Oc



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                         Page 2 of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Table 1: Actual & Forecast Income Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
Base Case Scenario
(in millions of current won)
FORECAST                                               Average Annual Growth
TOTAL:       Actual     Forecast
ITEM                      2001         2002        2003         2004        2005        2006         2007  1994-2007   1989-1993   1993-2007
UNIT VOLUMES
=Ridrship(0s)          _         528,912     600,285      620,076     624,404      644,998  _  649,512      670,941          NA  ___  5.0%          8.9%
Track Kilometers       _ _       _ 54.9          71.6  _     71.6        71.6         71 6        71.6         71.6          NA  _    0.0%         7.5A
_Ridership(0005)per Track Km       9,634       8,384        8,660       8,721        9,008  _    9,071        9,371   __    NA          5,0%        1.3%
Operting Incomeper Rider06 (006)                            (0.06i       (0__ 0 0J   N903)        0.01        0.00           NA _        NA           NA
Op Income (mil.) per Track Km       (602)        (512)       (542)       (256)        (283)         53          30           NA          NA           NA
OPERATING REVENUES (1)            _   ___                         _        _                           _                   . ___
PassgeFares                      227,432     284,535      293,916     326,563      337,334     374,768      387,133    3,035,373       14.2%       16 8%
Other Revenue                      9,134       12,317      12,669       13.039      13,372       13,743      14,121     129,949        63.0%        7.0%
total revenues    236,566    296,852     306,585      339,603     350,706      388,512     401,254    3,165,322       17.1%        16 1%
OPERATING EXPENSES (2)   _                                     __
Labor              0             106,728      149,004  _  156,454      164,277     172,491 _   181,115      190,171    1,528,823       12.6%       13.6%
Materals & Supplies                8,605       11,952      12,549       13,177      13,836      14,527       15,254     122,188        11.1%       13.2%
Electnc Power       ___           21,582      30,054       31,557      33,135       34,792      36,531  _ 38,358        303,310         1.8%       167%
Other Expenses & Claims           22,950      32,023       33,624      35,305       37,070      38,924       40,870     314,950       123.9%       16.5%1
subtotal: working casts    159,865  223,032     234,184      245,893     258,188      271,097     284,652    2,269,271        14.9%       14.3%
Depreciaion:_ __-_ _   _                                       - --          -  _-- T___                      -        -- .    __ _  _ _    
_Ro         tock (2A)     _   _   33,945        34,691      35,455 _    36,235       37,032 _     37,846  _   38,679     352,109    -10.0%          14.5%/6
Facilities & Equipment        75,779      75,779       75,779      75,779       75,779      75,779       75,779     739,540         1.7%       11.8%
subtotal: depreciation  109,723    110,470      111,233     112,013     112,810      113,625     114,458    1,091,649        3.7%        126%
total operating expenses  269,588    333,503      345,417     357,907      370.998     384,723      399,110    3,360,919       10.7%       13.8%
OPERATING INCOME I LOSS(33,022) _  (36,65i)  _38                     =L  304L-_    92              3,789       2,144  _5 95,597            NA          NA
NON-OPERATING INCOMEj3)                          0            0                 0            0           0 _              _  _  0  __    NA             NA
NON-OPERATING EXPENSES 41                __        _ =                   .                            ___ =__ =___ =                           --      _
InterestneQ       __             313,382     331,290      344,122     356,647      368,769  _  380067       390,221    3,715,409          NA _        NA
Others                                 0           0            0           0            0           0            0           0           NA          NA
total non-operating expenses  313,382    331,290      344,122     356,647      368,769     380,067      390,221    3,715,409         NA           NA
EXTRAORDINARY INCOME (5)_                  0           0            0           0    __      0           0       _   0       _                N __   __  _NA
NET_INCOME / (LOSS)                  (346,404)   (367,941)   (382,954)   (374,951)   (389,061)    (376,278)   (388,077)  (3,911,007)          NA          NA
INDICATORS                          _        i             _      _    ____
WongRatio (6) -                -       67.6%/   = 75.1%  =    76.4%          72.4%       73.6%   =    69.8%      709% 
Operating Ratio (7)                    114.0%      112.3%      1t2.7%       105.4%/_  105.8%          990%        995      .
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets (S) -  1.2%      -1.4%        -1.5%       -0.8% __    -0.9% _      0.2%         0.1%0'
Recovery o1 Working Cots                                                                                                                                                         >
& Rolling Stock Depreciation (9)   122.1%,    115.2%        113.7%      120.4%      118.8%       125.8%      124.1% 
 I
-. I_



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                            Page I of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Table 2: Actual & Forecast Funds Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
Base Case Scenario
(in millions of current won)
_________________                  ~~~~~ACTUAL                                 _________FORECAST  ____
ITEM                       1990         191"         19921        1993         1994        1995         1996         1997         19981        1999         2000
SOURCES OF FUNDS                   ____
__Net-Income                      _l1i8.55   __(74,703) _ (65,2SO6) - (72,042)          85,832 _(116,620t    (143.529) __  1187            207,934    (262,351)    (297.250)
Depeiain19,450                                  20,025       19,966       21,686       24,438   - 24,611        24,788       24,969       67,645       69,077       71,787
Intereton  -Trm Debt           64.3100      64,314       64.423      _477,518     82,299      115,440      144,9864     172.501-    2086,20      241,417      283,542
Other Non-Cash Items                18.356       7,759        (312)        9,3T77                                           0                        0                   0
totat -intemat    (18,451) ___17,395        15,966        6,519      20,905       23,431       26,245       25,644       68,332       48,144      58,079
Pre-94  orrowigs (aggegate) 285,268   134.730      131,622      250,000            0  __        0            0            0           0            0            0
BAD                       0            0           ~~~~                ~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~0  0  ___0  27,438 2748 1,9000
Ot_QherPr-et-Retated Debt                 0                ____00                      163,631      187,119      137,361      150,359      182,039     190,970      182,178
SubwayBonds                  ~~           ~~           ~      ~~0  0  0  -0   118,000    131,200     144,320      158,752      174,627      192,090      211.299
Misc. Short-Termn Deb                   0            0            0 _____0                  0      131,215      68,799       92,402      184,268      283,088      456,952
total borrowings   265,268     134,730      131,622      250,000      281,631      476,972      397,919      415.232     540,934      666,147      850,428
Government Subsidies1)    
National Government                29,637       20,000       40,'000      60,000   _147,038   _159,531          125,866 _   126,757      149,038   _152,836        145,683                0
City ot Pusan                        4,000       5,0030      20,00        30,000       60,000       65,000       70,000      68,000       60,000       60,000       60,000
totat subsidies   33,637       25,000       60,000       90,000     207,038      224,531      195,866      194,757      209,038      212,836      205,683
TOTAL SOURCES         280,454     177,125      207,588      346,519      509,573      724,935      620.030      635,633     818,303      927,127    1,114,191
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS              ____
Capital Projects (1 1)                  10,220       53,423      84,000      222,982      348,150      398,125      263,465      267,029      356,150 --371.344  _ 342,733
tncrasl(Decrease) in Working Capital ___    0  ___~54)  __11,343)               1,500      (30.8961     12,700)      30031        (146)        20,932)       829J         4,129
hInterest Paymnents:
On Pre94 Debt                   64,300      64,314       64,423       47,518       72,725       76,148       70,91        68,625       87,347       18,215       15,430
IBRD                    0            0    __     0            0     ~     ~~         ~~~~ ~~ 0  995  -29684   4,476        4,973        4,973       4,973
Prote-Related Debt                  0            0            0-           0        9,574_      30,097       49,136       66,124    -85.730    -98,541         100.934
SubwayBonds               ~~           ~      ~~0  0  0  ___     0            0            0    _       0            0            0       39,911  _ 44,375
Misc. Shont-Term, Debt              0            0            0I          0            0         8,201      2195         33,277       50,569       79,778      117,830
total interest payments   64,300      64,314       64,423       47,518       82,299      11,4         144,986      172,501     208,620      241,417      283.542 
On Pre94 Debt     .     .      166,737       76,539       53,380      70,45       10,6          7,7          892         197,177  __270,500        62,350       53,320
lBAD                                0            0            0           0             0           0            0            0                                      0
PratRltdDebt       ___       0            0  __        0____ 0_ __              0_     __ 0               0__O         0            0      146.223     -168,373
SubwayBonds                 -       0_  0                     0           0             6__ 0__     0            0            0            0      118,000      131,200
Misc. Shont-TerrmDebt               0            0            0           0l            0           0            0            0            0            0      131,215
total principal payments  1 68,737     76.539       53,380       70,454      100,763      275,471      186,952     197,177      270.500      326,573      484.108
total debt service  231,037      140,853      117,803     117,972      18a3,062     390,911      331,938      369,679     479,120      567,990      767,651
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS          241.257      193,729      190,460     342,454      500,315      776,337      625,435      635,245      814.338      921,055    1,114,513
-increase ~Decreasej In Cash     39,197      (16,604) __  17.128   _   4,065         9,258     _(51,4029 ____  5.405) __    388          3,964       6,072         (323)          1
_Cash at B inn gfler            20,000       59,197       42,593       59,721       63,786       73,044      21,641        16,236      16,624 _    20,589        26,661
Cash at Endof Year      59,197       42,593       59,721       63,786       73,044       21,641       16,236       18,624      20,589       26,661       26,338          rt 
INDICATORS                                                     ___ _____4~,
Debt Service Coverager (13                1.17         0.6          1.15         1.3         10            .709                      .010                      0      _ 100
Self-Financing Ratio (14)                    00000                                                           0            0           0            0            0,           0           --



REPUBUC OF KOREA                                                                         Page 2 of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pl n Urban Trast  Autority (PUTA)
Table 2: Acual & Forecast Funds Statements for Years Ending 1910-2007
BRs  Case Scenrio
(in millions of current won)
FORECAST
TOTAL:
fIEM                      2001        2002         20031       2004         200         2           2007  1194-207
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Not Incorne               _      348,404) __91           382,954    (374 951    (3) _  61)   (3.278) -          7, (3,911,007
Dopedaion_  109,723                          110.470  _  111,233  _112,013         112,810 _  _113,625 _114,458    1,091649
Interest on Lng-Te             _ 315,357     332,442      345,516     358,110     370,305      381,680     391,915    3,744,132
Other Non-Cash Items                   0           0           0            0           0            0           0           0
total - intemal  78,676       74,971      73,795      95,173       94,055     119,028      118,296     924,774
Pre-'94          a      to             0                                                0            0           0 
IBRD                                   0           0           0            0           0            0           0       68,595
__Other Proect-:elated Debt      _         0           0           0            0_         - 0           0           0    1,193,656
Subway Bonds                     232,429     255,672      281,239     309,363      340,299     374,329     411,761    3,335,380
Misc. Shon-Term Debt             360,302     303,368      427,719     515,494     685,615      398,481     338,231    4,265,933
total bonuwings    592,731    559,040     708,958      824,857    1,025.914     772,809     749,992    8,863,563
Government Subsidies (10)
National Govemment _      _       72,184      60.000       60,000      60,000       60,000      60,000      60,000   1,438,933
City ol Pusan                     60.000      60,000       60,000      60,000       60,000      60,000      60,000      863,000                             oo
total subsidies    132,184   120.000     120,000      120.000     120,000     120,000      120,000   2,301,933                             LA
TOTAL SOURCES       803,591      754,011     902,753    1,040,030    1,239,969    1.011,837    988,288   12,090,270
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS        ..                                                __   -          ___  -       ._ .
9!pitatPro,ec  _11                    48,736           0           0            0           0            0  ____    0    2,395,732
Increaset(Decrease in Wrlr ing Ca its  63,345  _       9        2.534       2660) _  __    93___(2,933)          (3,080    _  4,042
Interest Payment: ____
On Pre'94 Debt                 13,007_     tt,704   _10,461-         9,098 __7,795_   _6,492              5,t89 _453,092
IBRD                  __ 4,973 __ 4,.774                4,376       389          3,382    _2,884         2,387       50,030
P     RelatedDebt             93,467      76,957 3     571962 _38 ,709          15,391       4,742  _   72351       729,654
Subway Bonds             1_48,83          58,694      159,0638     1920    71,467           78,6132    286,475 2   ,547,381
Misc. Short-Term Debt        155,157     185,312     213,713      243,454        272,271     288,948   293,514    1,963,976
total interest payments    315,357  332,442     345,516      358,110     370,305     381,680      391,915    3,744,132
PrinciplRepayrnent:  _ _  .___
On  Pre'94 Debt    se_v 24c600            724,600    924,630        24,600 41,71  21,737    1 ,64        9600    1,318,733
_OTAL APPICATIR NS OF FUNDS        814,576      750,778     901,824    1,039,055    1,230,944   1,010,761     98186590  6  12,1
Prcject-Related Den t f      126,676     140,373      168,587     196,51       2041         21 _7,123   2,823    1,14,468
CSubway    a B nds     o     144,320 _ 158,752        174,627     192,090     211,299      232,429     255,672    1,618,389
Misc. Short-Terrn Debt        88,799      92,402      184 ,268    283,088     4 56,952     360,302     363,368    1, 9o6,393
total principal payments    387,139  421,615     558842      683,604      871,432     632,014      598,323    5,994,512
total debt service    702,496  754,056 _ 904,357    1,041,715    1,241,737    1,013,694      990,238    9,738,644.
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS        814,576      750,778     901,824    1,039,055    1,238,944    1,010,761    987,159   12,130,335
Increase (Decrease) In Cash    (10,985)     3,233        _929          976       1,025   _1,076           1,130            
Cash at Beginning of Year|   26,338      15,353  _ 18,586   __19_,515    _20,491           21,51_6  _22,591                                         Q;
-Cash at End of Year    15,353      18,5306     19,515   _20,491         21,516   =22,591         23,721 I|tr 
INDICATORS                          ____
Debt Sermce Covger                      0.98         1.00 C       0           100         1.00        1.O         1i00 6                                     ,-.O
,Self-Financing Ratio (14)                 0,          0,           0                        0                                                               _



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Notes Supporting the Financial Statements
NOTES:
Income Statement:
(1) Forecasted Operating Revenues are documented in reports from the Operating Revenue Model'.
(2) Forecasted operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation, are documented in reports from the "O&M Model'.
Depreciation costs are documented in reports from the 'Construction' model.
(2A) Rolling stock depreciation is calculated on a replacement-cost basis. Data for 1990-1993 are estimated from actual unit costs.
(3) Non-operating income estimates were supplied by PUTA and appear for the 'actual' period only. It consists prmarily of amortization of
deferred foreign exchange gains.
(4) Forecasts of the interest portion of Non-operating expenses are documented in reports from the 'Cash Flow" model (see appendix).
'Other' non-operating expenses consists primarily of foreign exchange losses, and appear only for the 'actual' period.
(5) Extraordinary income was provided by PUTA for the 'actual' period.
(6) The working ratio is total operating expenses less depreciation, divided by total operating revenue.
(7) The Operating Ratio is total operating expenses divided by total operating revenue.
(8) The Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets is net income divided by net fixed assets in operation.
(9) Recovery of Working Costs & Rolling Stock Depreciation is the percentage of these expenses covered by operating revenues.            00
Funds Statement:
(10) Borrowings and Govemment Subsidies are documented in the reports from the "Cash Flow' model.
(11) Capital projects costs are documented in the reports from the "Construction" model.
(12) Debt service costs are documented in reports from the "Cash Flow' model.
(13) Debt service coverage is the ratio of total sources, less capital project outlays, to total principal and interest payments.
This reflects PUTA's receipt of some debt service assistance from the National Govemment, and the use of Subway Bonds to roll over debt.
(14) The Self-Financing Ratio is the ratio of intemal cash (after debt service payments) to capital projects expense. PUTA's intemal sources
are insufficient to pay any portion of capital costs.
CD >
_N _
0 



- 87 -             Annex 16
Page 7 of 19
ANNEX B:
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HIGH FARE SCENARIO



-88 -                                    Annex 16
Page 8 of 19
Scenario: The fare strategy rests on the maximum passenger fare revenue that can be generated, given
the ridership forecasts presented in Annex 4 and a fare elasticity of -0.177. The maximum fare revenue
occurs at the point where a further increase in fare would yield a loss in revenue. The method for
calculating maximum fare is presented below. Higher fares were calculated for 1995, 1999 and 2002.
These years were chosen because each is the first full year following an expansion of the subway system.
Fares are assumed to be constant between these years. Government subsidies were set to zero beginning
in 1995.
Calculation of Maximum Fare:
INPUTS:                                           1995            1999            2002
QO = Existing Ridership [000s]         245             469             646
P0 = Existing Fare [nominal won         240             292             338
C= Cost [nominal won mil.l     115,000         265,000         425,000
E = mid-point elasticity     (0.177)         (0.177)         (0.177)
BREAK-EVEN FARE CALCULATION
Quadratic formula arguments:
a = EQO                 _          (43.37)         (83.01)        (114.34
b = (1 -E)Q-0*PO                69,207.60      161,187.80      256,995.60
c = -C-PO                     (27,600,000)    (77,380,000    (143,650000
Breakeven fare (low):      _
Fare (P1) [nominal won]            780.88          868.76        1,042.48
Passengers (01) [000s]               147             305             408
Revenue [nominal won mil.]        115,000        265,000          425,000
Ridership Loss %                   -39.9%          -35.0%          -36.9%
Breakeven fare (high)
Fare (P1) [nominal won]            815.05        1,072.95        1,205.12
Passengers (Q1) [000s]               141             247             353
Revenue [nominal won mil.]        115,000        265,000          425,000
Ridership Loss %                   -42.4%          -47.3%          -45.4%1
Passenger Fare Revenues vs. Costs for Base Case and Maximum Fares
700,000
600,000
5W,u000   _                                                         =   Constnjcton & Debt SerMC
E          _                                                               Operating Costs (ind. depf.)
400, O-f-    Pass. Revenue - Max Fare
300,000                                                          O- 0- Pass. Revenue - Base Fare
200,000                                                        Based on Fte lowing fares in nomnal won:
1995: 240Base; 781 Max
100,000                                                        1999: 292 Base; 69 Max
2002: 338 Base 1tO42 Max
0
1995             1999             2002



-89 -                                            Annex 16
Page 9 of 19
Results of Cash Flow Analysis: The cash flow modal calculated the borrowing requirements for
construction and other short-term borrowing needed to sustain a positive cash flow. Financial projections
for the high-fare scenario are shown below and the cash flow statements are attached.
Under this scenario, fare revenues could potentially cover all operating costs, and could go a long
way toward covering debt service, as well. However, cash shortfalls during the construction period will
necessitate additional borrowing. Thus, the debt and associated interest payments would far exceed
passenger revenues in the long run. Also, the impact on ridership is rather extreme: In 2002, the fares
(W1,042) would be roughly three times higher than in the base case (W338), and would produce a 37%
loss in ridership. Thus, while higher fares could contribute to improving PUTA's financial position, they
are not the sole solution and would have to be considered in light of their impact on ridership.
Annual Debt Service Payments vs. Available Cash
1,400,000
1,200,000
1,000,000                                                                             Short-Term Debt
80,0                                                                                  Subway Bonds
Construction Debt
600,0000
k                                                         **     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Exisflng Debt
400,000                                                                   *f*~~Available Cash
200,000                                 ,                                 'Available Cash is the amount
remaining from all sources,
except short-term debt, after
0                                                                  operating A capital outlays
e*  LO   x   P-  X   0   0               en N   X'   have been made.
CD   0   0   03  0)  0   o   O           o    O   o   O
Y _ _ _ N N Ncm   C   N   cm  cm  CNI 4   N



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                          Page 1 of 2
PusAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMEENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Table 1: Actual & Forecast Income Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
High Fare Scenario
(in millions of current woni)
____________                            ~~~~~~~           ~~~~~ACTUAL  _____FORECAST
ITEM                       1990        1991         19921        1993        19914        1995         1996        1997         1998         19991       2000
UNIT VOLUMES                         -V7
Ridersh,ip_(000s)  __-  -       176,060   -181,877  _ 192,084           203,704   -208,737       147,503  _157,89-7  __1-68,371   _245.849 __307,860            327170O
Track Kilometers                     26.1  __ 26.1   _    26.1           26.1           30.5        32    32.5 - -     32.5 ______  32.5  32.          54.9   _54.9
R1idership (000s) per Track Km    __ 6,746       6,968       7,360        7,805        6,834  ___41,539         4.858        5,181  _7,565            5.808   __ 5,959
9p~ratii~jtncorne per ftder  _____(~.1  007)    ,(99)         001      ,i9    l        02           026          0.27        0,25         0.23   _    02
Op Income (mnil.) per Track Km       (672)        (51         (640)       (616)         (272)      1,061        1,249        1,395       1.858        1,277        1,343
OPERAT1NG REV~ENUESIl1______,, __                            _ - -           - -_   ---__-------                                              _  
asse nger Fares         _         29,578      38,376       41,375       44,000      67,005  1_ 115..052      123,160     131,330      191,762     264,760      281,366
Other Revenue                       1,263        1,781       2,1          5,474        3,825       4,683        5,326        4,9.54      5,262        8,6808,2
total revenues    30,841      40,157       43,587       49,474      70,829      119,735      128,486      136,283     197,024      273,440     290,190
OPERATING EXPENSES 2)               ___ __                     __       ____-                              - __                 -_                            -
Labor                              22,356      26,543       26,183    _31,954        -37,820      42,210       44,320       46,536      48,863       91,160       97,6173
Materials & Supplies                1,970       2.420        1.477   _ 2,702           3,214       3,444      -3,461   _ _3,556   __3.654             7,195        7,766
ElecrcPwer                          4,169       3,908   __4,325 __ 4,399              7,557        8,081        8,081 ___8,283  __ 8,490  __17,626                19,182
-Other Expenses & Claims                430         337         8,327       4,826        6,117        6,897 ,     7,242        7,604        7,984      18,274       20,068
subtotal: wor*(ing costs  28,925      33,208      40,312       43.881       54,708       60,631      63,104       65,979      68,992      134,255      144,689
Depreciation:    --~   ___                       ___        --
___RollingStock (?A)_              4,380         5,132        5,245   __5.824   __7,878 __         8,052       8,2           ,1         002          140         2,7
Facilities & Equipment         15,070      14,893       14,721       15,842      16,559       16,559       16,559      16,559       47,617      47.617       47,617
subtotal: depreciation  19,450      20,025        19,966      21,666       24,438      24,611       24,788       24,969      67,645       69,077       71,787
total operating expenses   48,375      53,233       60,278      65,547       79,146       85.243      87,892       90,949      136,637     203,332      216.476
OPERATING INCOME/ I  OSS)I.           _17,5341      13,076)     (1,91_t03) -    8,3171                 442         4,9           535        6,8          70,109       73,715
___________   I-NCOME_[3               3137         3,1          778         1,5              -000    -                              0           0            0            0
NSON-OPERATING  EXPENS  ES(4)      _ __ _ _~ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                           _ -_    _         _ _          _ _
_Interest 6nt                -      6,0           4,314       64,423      47,518 ___80,996 ___114,807  _155,779             193,171 _237,259         274,204     _320,696
-Others                              68,071       34,632      2-2,039      1950              0           0            0            0           0            0            0
total non-operating expenses  132,371      98,946       86,462       67,021      80,996      114,807      155,779     193,171      237,259     274,204      320,696
EXTRAORDINARY INCOME (5).    _         _ .f9)           3  _       139       00               _0    _      0  __        0  _         0   _       0            0 _0
NET INCOME I(LOSS)                   (118,557)    (74,703)      (65,296)    (72,042)     (89,3131     (80.3151    (115,1851    (147,836)   (176,871)   (204,095)    (246,981)
INDICATORS 
WoknRto(6)     __93.8%/                        82.70/      925          B 8.7% _     77.2%       50.6%        49.1%        48.4%       35.0%       -49.1%       49.9%
WOprkiatio 
OrtngRatio (7)              - . 156.9%/    _132.60/o        138..3%/     132.5%      111.7%        71.2% ___68.4%           66.7%        69.4%  _    74.4%        74.6%
Rate of Returnl on Net Fixed Assets (8)  -2.3%        1.70/%      -2.2%        -2.1%     -1.%    _4.8%/             _5.80/o       6.7%         3.3%,1      3.9%         4.2%0
Recovery of Working Costs
& Rolling Stock Depreciation (9)    92.6%,      104.7%/       95.7%       99.5%       113.2%,      174.3%1    180.1%        183.2%1    221.3%1        175.6%1     171.9%          -.



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                        Page 2 of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Table 1: Actual & Forecast Income Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
High Fare Scenario
(in millions of current won)
FORECAST                                              Average Annual Growth
TOTAL:       Actual     Forecast
ITEM                      2001        2002        2003         2004        2005        2006         2007  1994-2007   1989-1993   1 993-2007
UNIT VOLUMES
Rictership (000s)    _  _  _     396,074     408,893     434,152      459,428     484,736     510,089      535.502          NA        5.0/h       7.1%
Track Kilometers                 _54.9          71.6_       716          71.6        716         71.6         71.6          NA       00%         7.5%
_ _ Ridership (000s)[per Track Km     7,214        5,711       6,064       6,417        6.770       7,124       7,479          NA         5.00/h     -0.3%
Operating Income per Aider          0.20  _    0.25  _        0.27       0-29        0.30        0 31         0.32          NA          NA  _    _  NA
Op Income (mil.) per Track Km      1,460       1,453        1,659      1i,857       2,046       2,228        2,401          NA          NA          NA
OPERATING REVENUES (1)  -                        _          ___|__
Passenger Fares                  340,624     425,248     451,518      477,805     504,125     530,493      556,923    4,461,171      14.2%        19.9%
Other Revenue                      9,134      1 2,317      12,669      13,039      13,372       13,743      14,121     129,949       63.0%         7.0%
total revenues    349,758   437,565      464,187     490,845     517,498      544,236     571,044    4,591,120       17.1%       19 1%
__.A . __ __X_  _         _  __  _-
OPERATING EXPENSES 2)                                                                             ____
Labor                            106728      1 49,004     156,454     164,277     172,491     181!115      190,171   1,528,823       12.6%        13.6%
Materials & Supplies               8.605      11,952       12,549      13,177      13,836      14,527       15,254     122,188        11.1%       13.2%
Electric Power                    21,582      30,054      31,557       33,135      34,792      36,531       38,358     303,310        1.8%        16 7%
Other Expenses & Claims           22,950      32,023      33,624       35,305      37,070      38,924       40,870     314,950       123.9%       16.5%_/
subtotal: working costs    159.865  223.032     234,184     245,893     258,188      271,097     284,652    2,269,271       14.9%       14 3%
Depreciation:
Roaing Stock (2A)            33,945       34,691      35,455      36,235       37,032      37,846      38,679      352,109       10.0%        14.5%
Facilities & Equipment       75,779       75,779      75,779      75,779       75,779      75,779      75,779      739,540        1.7%        11.8%
subtotal: depreciation  109,723    110,470     111,233     112,013     112,810      113,625     114,458    1,091,649        3.7o/      12.6%
total operating expenses    269,588  333,503     345,417     357,907      370,998     384,723     399,110    3,360,919       10.7%        13.8%
OPERATING INCOME/ (LOSS)              80,169     104,063     118,769      132,938     146,499     159,514      171;934    1,230,201         NA          NA
NON-OPERATING INCOME 3  _                 0            0           0           0            0   _       0           0            0          NA          NA
NON-OPERATING EXPENSES (4)
Interest (net) .   ..- __361,493             389,230     410,248     432,068      455,717     480,933      506,354    4,412,954         NA          NA
Others                                 0           0           0           0            0           0           0            0          NA           NA
total non-operating expenses    361,493  389,230     410,248     432,068      455,717     480,933     506,354    4,412,954          NA          NA
EXTRAORDI-NARY INCOME L5)__               0      0                 0           0o       0               0           0 ___NA_NA
NET INCOME / (LOSS)                 (281,324)   (285,168)   (291,478)   (299,130)   (309,218)   (321,419)   (334,420)  (3,182,753)          NA          NA
INDICATORS   _        ____         _____ ________._.______
Working Ratio (6)                      45.7%       51.0% _      50.5%       50.1%       49.9h      49.8%        49.8%              ,      .  .
OperatingRatio (7)                     77.1%       76.2%        74.4%       72.90/_    71.7%/       70.7%        699%/.                    ...  ,.                         nq
Rate of Retum onNet Fixed Assets LEI) -  .%         4.0%r        4.7%  ___  5.5%/        6.4%        7.3%/        8.4%                                                      -
Recovery of Working Costs        _1 2_8
& Rolling Stock Depreciation (9)  180.5%       169.8%      172.2%1    174.0%        175.3%      176.2%      1766% g
'.008



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                        Page I of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Table 2: Actual & Forecast Funds Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
High Fare Scenario
(in millions of current won)
ACTUAL                                                            FORECAST
ITEM                      1990        1991         1992        1993        1994         1995        1996        1997        1998         1999        2000
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Sucs
NetIncome                       (118,557)     (74.703) _ (65,2961    (72.042)    (89,313)    (80,315)   (115,185)   (147,836)   (176,871)   (204,095)   (246,981)
Depreciatign   -_________   __ 19,450         20,025       19,966      21,666      24,438      24,611       24,788      24,969      67,645       69,077      71,787
Interest on Long-Term Debt        64,300      64,314      64,423       47,518      85,780      122,836     157,402     194,389 _   238,506      275,748     322,695
Other Non-Cash Items              16,356       7,759       (3,127)      9,377           0           0           0            0           0           0            0
total - intemal    (18,451)   17,395      15,966       6,519      20,905       67,132      67,005      71,522      129,279     140,730     147,501
torrowings (10)
Pre-'94_Borrowings (aggregate)    _265,268   134,730
IBRD                                   0           0           0  ___      0            0      27,438       27,438    13,719    ___   0              0            0
OtherPrcjecI-Related Debt              0           0 _ 0       0     _      0     348,150     398, 125     254,854     251,212     346.829      360,883     329,311
SubwayBonds               _            0           0           0  .         0     118,000 --- 131,200      144,320  -- 158,752      174,627 _ 192,090       211,299
Misc. Shorn-Term Debt                  0           0           0            0           0      74,434      138,829     162,315      197,454     121,531     263,289
total borrowings    265,268   134,730     131,622      250,000     466,150     631,198     565,441      585,998     718,910     674,504      803,899
Govemment Subsidies (10)
National Govemment                29,637      20,000      40,000       60,000      60,000           0           0            0           0           0            0
Cityol Pusan                       4,000       5,000      20,000       30,000           0           0            0           0           0           0            0
total subsidies  33.637       25,000      60,000      90,000       60,000           0           0           0            0           0           0
TOTAL SOURCES        280,454     177,125     207,588      346,519     547,055     698,330     632,446      657,520     848.189     815,234      951,400
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Projects (I 1)                10,220      53,423     84,000       222,982     348,150      398.125  _  263,465     267,029      356.150     371,344     342,733
Increase/(Decrease) in Worng Capital      0         (547)     ( 11,343)     1.5009  _ 30,896)      (12,700)     30,031       (1,463)    (20,932)    (18,279)      4,129
Interest Payments:
On Pre'94 Debt                64,300       64.314      64,423      47,518      72,725       76,148      70,914      68,625       67,347      18,215       15,430
IBRD                              0           0_  9        0           0            0         995        2,984       4,476       4,973        4,973       4,973
Project-Related Debt              0            0    ___    0     _    0        13,056      41,041       65,523      84,485     106,897      133,424     159,292
Subway Bonds                       0           0  _        0           0            0           90          0            0           0       39,911      44,375
Misc. Short-Term Debt             0            0           0           0            0       4,652       17,981      36,803      59,288       79,225      98,624
total interest payments  64,300      64,314      64,423      47,518       85,780     122,836     157,402      194,389     238,506     275,748      322,695
Principal Repayment:                                                                                             _ _
On Pre'94 Debt               166,737      76,539  _   53,380       70,454 _ 100,763        275,471     186,952      197,177     270,500      62,350      53,320
IBRD                              0            0           0           0            0           0           0            0           0           0            0
Project-Related Debt              0            0           0                        0           0           0            0          _ 0          0       23,210
SubwayBonds         ___ 0         0            0           0           0            0           0           0_=0         0           0      118,000     131,200
Misc. Short-Term Debi             0            0           0           0            0           0           0            0           0           0       74,434
total principal payments    166,737  76,539       53,380      70,454     100,763      275,471     186,952     197,177      270,500     180,350     282,164
total debt service  231,037    140,853     117,803      117,972     186,543     398,307      344,354     391,566     509,006      456,098     604.860
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS        241.257      193,729     190,460     342,454      503,797     783,732     637,851      657,132     844.224     809,163      951,722
Increase (Decrease) In Cash   39,197      (16,604)     17.128       4,065       43,258     (85.403)      (5,40z        388        3,964       6,072         (323)
Cash at Beginning of Year    20.000      59,197      42,593       59,721      63,786      107 044      21,641      16,236       16,624      20,589      26,661
Cash at End of Year    59,197       42,593      59,721      63.786      107,044      21,641      16,236       16,624      20,589      26,661      26,338
INDICATORS
Debt Service_Coverag (3                 1.17        08           1.15  =     1.03         1.23        0.79        0.98        1.00         1.01        1,01        1.00
Self-Financing Ratio (14)                  0           0            0           0           0           0            0           0           0            0           0



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                        Page 2 of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Table 2: Actual & Forecast Funds Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
High Fare Scenario
(in millions of current won)
FORECAST
TOTAL:
ITEM                      2001        2002        2003         2004        2005        2006         2007  1994-2007
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Sources
Net Income                      (281,324)   (285,168)   (291,478)  _ (299.130)   (309,218)   (321,419)   (334,420)  (3,182,753)
Depreciation                     109,723     110,470     111,233      112,013     112,810     113.625      114,458    1,091,649
Interest on Long-Term Debt       363,469     390,382     411,642      433,532     457,254     482,546      508,048    4,444,226
Other Non-Cash Items                  0            0           0            0           0           0           0            0
total - intemal    191,868  215,664      231,397     246,415     260,846      274,753     288,086   2,353,122
B  oings(0  
Pre- 94 Borrowings (a gate)           0            0           0           0            0           0        _o 0 _  
IBRD                                  0         0              0            0           0           0           0       68,595
Other Project-Related Debt             0           0           0            0           0           0            0   2,289,363
SubwayBonds        _          - 232,429      255,672     281,239      309,363     340,299     374,329      411,761    3,335,380
Misc. Short-Term Debt            400,512     336,877     384.432      319,253     491,057     648,633      582,864    4,121,500
total borrowings    632,941   592,549     665,671     628,616      831,356    1,022,961     994,645    9,814,838
_ioemment Subsidies (1Ql__                                                                                                _
National Goverment                     0           0           0            0           0           90           0      60,000
City ol Pusan                          0           0           0            0           0           0            0           0
total subsidies       0           0           0            0           0            0           0      60,000                                 '
TOTAL SOURCES       824,809      808,233     897,067     875,031    1.092,203    1,297,714    1,282,731   12,227,960                               w
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Cpital_Projects (11)                  48,736 __        0   -       0 ____       0           0           0            0    2,395,732
Increase/(Decrease) in Working Capita  63,345     (3,279)      (2,534)     (2,660)   _2,793)        (2,933)     (3,080)     (4042)
Debt Service(11 ____
Interest Payments:
On Pre94 Debt                 13,007       11,704      10,401       9,098        7,795       6,492       5,189 _  453,092
IBRD                           4,973       4,774       4,376        3,879       3,382       2,884        2,387      50,030
Project-Related Debt         169,893     166,161     161,157      154,897     147,329     137,532      126.090    1,666,777
Subway Bonds                  48,813      53,694      59,063  _   64,970       71,467      78,613       86,475     547,381
Misc. Short-Term Debt        126,783     154,048     176,644     200,688      227,281     257,024      287,907    1,726,946
total interest payments    363,469  390,382     411,642     433,532     457,254      482,546     508,048    4,444,226
Principal Repayment             __                                                           
On Pre94 Debt                 24,600      24,600       24,600      24,600      24,600       24,600      24,600    1,318,733
I- lBRD                    _2,744          5,!488      6,860        6,860       6,860       6,860       6,860     42,529
Pmfect-RelatedDebt           49,752      66.742      83,489       98,102     130,670  -  152,624      152,624     757,214
Subway Bonds            _ 144,320        158,752     174,627      192,090     211,299     232,429     255,672    1,618,389
Misc. Short-Term Debt        138,829     162,315     197,454      121,531     263,289     400,512      336,877    1,695,242
total princidal payments    360,245  417,897     487,030     443,183     636,718      817,024     776,633    5,432,108
total debt service    723,713  808,279     898,671     876,715    1,093,971    1,299,571    1,284,681   9,876,334
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS        835,794      805,000     896,138     874,055    1,091,178    1,296,638    1,281,601   12,268,025 
increase (Decrease) In Cash   (10,985)      3,233         929         976        1,025       1,076        1,130
_     Casha Bginningof Year __  26,338            15,353      18,586       19,515      20,491      21,516       22,591            -                             rD ->
Cash at End of Year    15,353       18,586      19,515      20,491      21,516       22,591      23,721        ts -
INDICATORS   _ _                 ____O_
Debt Service Coverage_(13)              0.98      1.00   - 1.00             1.00      =1.00           1.00  1.00 
Self-Financing Ratio (14)                  0           0         0            O           O           0           0



- 94 -          ~~~~~Annex 16
Page 14 of 19
ANNEX C:
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SUBSIDY SCENARIO



- 95 -                                   Annex 16
Page 15 of 19
Scenario: The subsidy scenario uses a combination of long-term debt and additional government subsidies
to improve PUTA's financial position. As in the base case, the Government and PCG would help cover
construction costs as described in the December, 1993 debt management strategy. In addition, this
scenario assumes annual payments by the Government or PCG as follows: W170 billion in 1995; W40
billion in 1996; W50 billion in 1997; and WI 10 billion in 1998. This would allow PUTA to emerge
from the construction period in relatively good financial condition and avoid approximately W600 billion
of the W966 billion accumulated shortfall.
Results of Cash Flow Analysis: In the subsidy scenario, the principal improvement relative to both the
base case and the high-fare scenario is in debt management. At 2007, this scenario shows a reasonable
debt service coverage (see Annex C) and the cash flow is also positive. Although the Government and
PCG outlays are higher in this scenario than in the base case, total outlays are substantially lower--
W8,063 billion in this scenario versus W12,130 billion in the base case. This reflects the avoidance of
interest costs associated with borrowing to meet cash flow needs, as well as the lower interest costs
associated with long-term construction financing. These results would improve slightly if the sale of
long-term public bonds were complemented with use of the Government Financing Fund, which provides
below-market interest rates for long-term financing of public projects.
The figure below depicts the results of the cash flow analysis.
Subsidy Scenario: Annual Debt Service Payments vs. Available Cash
700,000
600,000
500,000                                                                     Short-Term Debt
Subway Bonds
, 400,000
-     \ Construction Debt
300,000
.                                                  opEnting &pExisting Debt
200,000     '-*                                                             Available Cash
100,000                                           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AvaIiable Caah is Me amount
exceptsto-tm debt, after
0                                                               -  g A n  e   cap,i outlays
_   _   _   _   _  _   O   N    4  cm  N   N   cm



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                        Page I of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Table 1: Actual & Forecast Income Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
Subsidy Scenario
(in millions of current won)
ACTUAL                                          .                 FORECAST
ITEM                      1990        1991         1992        1993        1994         1995        1996        1997         1998        1999        2000
UNIT VOLUMES
Ridership (000s)                 176,060     181,877      192,084     203,704  _  208,737     230,222      232,768     241,389     335,421      441,471     446,383
Track Kilometers                    26.1 t      26 1      _ 26.1         26 1  ___  30.5          32.5        32.5    --- 32.5      32.5           54.9        54.9
Ridership (oOOs) per Track Km      6,746       6,968        7,360       7,805   _  6,834        7,084        7,162       7,427       10,321       8,041       8,131
Operating Income per Rider         (0.10       (007)    _|09)           (08)    _ jO.04)         (0.03)       0.00        0.00        0.00        (005)       (0.04)
Op tncome ( mil .) per Track Km     (672)       (501)        (640)       (616) j     (272)        (205)         (5)        (17)         (17)       (409)       (286)
OPERATING REVENUES (1)  --            ____
Passenger Fares                   29,578      38,376       41.375      44,000      67,005       73,901      82,400      85,452      130,814     172,174     191,945
Other Revenue                      1,263        1,781       2,212       5,474       3,825        4,683       5,326       4,954        5,262       8,680       8.824
total revenues   30,841       40,157      43,587      49,474       70,829      78,584      87,726       90,405     136,076     180,854     200,769
OPERATING EXPENSES (2)                 _
Labor                             22,356      26,543       26,183      31,954      37,820       42,210      44,320      46,536      48,863       91.160      97,673
Materials & Supplies               1,970       2,420        1,477       2,702    _  3,214        3,444       3,461       3,556        3,654       7.195       7,766
Electric Power                     4,169       3,908        4,325       4,399       7,557        8,081       8,081       8,283        8,490      17,626      19,182
Other Expenses & Claims              430         337        8,327       4,826       6,117        6,897       7,242        7,604       7,984      18,274      20,068
subtotal: working costs  28,925      33,208      40,312       43,881      54,708      60,631       63,104      65,979      68,992      134,255     144,689
Depreciation:
Rolling Stock (2A)             4,380       5,3          5,2 45      5,824       7,878        8,052       8,229       8,410      20,028       21,460      24,170
Facilities & Equipment        15,070      14,893       14,721      15,842       16,559      16,559      16,559      16,559       47,617      47,617      47,617
subtotal: depreciation  19,450      20,025      19.966      21,666       24,438      24,611      24,788       24,969      67.645      69,077       71,787
total operating expenses  48,375      53,233       60,278      65,547      79,146       85,243      87,892      90,949      136,637     203,332     216,476
OPERA1ING ~ ~iNOEA LO            ___1_3)      1,069)a                                                          16)350
__________       C    i(LOSS ) 0     (17.534) -    13,076J 16,691y _(A16,073) __1(8,317__        (6,6) -q 266}837} _____- 05_)  __ _22,477)  ___(15,707)
NON-OPERATING INCOMEJ3J           _31,357         37,316       37,718      11,052           0 _         0            0           0           0            0           0
NON-OPERATING EXPENSES (4) _             __         ._ _            _            _     .__
Interest (net)    6_ 4,300                    64,314       64,423      47,518   _  75,687       95,878     107,921     122,253      136,788     145,286     170,924
Olhers                            68,071      34,632       22,039      19,503           0           0            0           0           0            0           0
total non-operating expenses  132,371     98,946       86,462      67,021      75,687       95,878     107,921     122,253      136,768     145,286     170,924
EXTRAORDINARY INCOME (5)          _.=..(9)             3       139   _          0 _         0           0            0           0          0            0           0
NET INCOME / (LOSS)                 (118,557)    (74,703)    (65,296)    (72,042)    (84,004)   (102,536)   (108,087)   (122,796)   (137,348)   (167,763)   (186,631)
INDICATORS                                                   _     _               __-_   _                                                                                       -o
Working Ratio (6)                      93.8%        82.7%       92.5%       88.7%        77.2%       77.2%   =_71.9%         73.0% .50.7%             74.2%       72.1%
O~peratin_q Ratio 7)    -              5.~o_ 132.6%            138.3% _ 132.5%          111.7%1     108.5%      100.2%/      100.6%      100.4%      112 4% __107.8%
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets (9)  __-2.3%  _    -1.7%  _    -2.2%     -2.1%        -1.1%       -0.9%        0.0%/       -0.1%  _     0, 0o/ 1/I 3%.          0.9%              Z
Recovery of Working Costs
&Rolling Stock Depreciation (9)     92.6%      104.70       95.7%       99.5%       113.2%      114.4%       123.0%      121.5%      1529%        116.1%      118.9%



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                         Page 2 of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Table 1: Actual & Forecast Income Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
Subsidy Scenario
(in millions of current won)
____  __________                            FORECAST                                                Average Annual Growth
TOTAL:       Actual     Forecast
ITEM                      2001         2002        2003         2004        2005         2006        2007  1994-2007   1989-1993   1993-2007
UNIT VOLUMES
Ridership (O00s)                 528,912      600,285     620,076  -  624,404      644,998      649,512     670,941  _        NA         50%           9 8.9%
Track Kilometers                     54.9        71.6         71.6        71 6         716         71.6         71 6          NA         0 0%        7.5%
Ridership (090s)_per Track Kmr     9,634        8,384       8,660        8,721       9.008  _X 9,071          9,371           NA         5.0%        1 31 3%
Operating Income perRFtider         (0.06)      (0.06) __    0.06)-     _ ( __ 1 03)  (_)          0 01         0.00          NA_         NA           NA
Op Income (mil.) per Track Km       (602)        (512)       (542)        (256)       (283)          53          30           NA          NA           NA
OPERATING REVENUES (1) -               _       =______ _
iPassenqer Fares         __      227,432      264,535     293,916      326,563  __337,334       374,768     387,133    3,035,373 _      14.2%/      16 8%
Other Revenue                      9,134       12,317      12,669       13,039      13,372       13,743       14,121     129,949        630 %        7016%
total revenues    236,566    296,852      306,585     339,603      350,706     388,512      401,254    3,165,322       17.1%        16.11%
OPERATING EXPENSES (2)                                                          =
Labor                             106,728     149,004     156,454      164,277     172,491      181,115      190,171    1,528.823       12.6%       13.6%
Materials & Supplies               8,605       11,952       12,549      13,177       13,836      14,527       15,254     122,188        11.1%/e     13.2%
Electric Power                    21,582       30,054      31,557       33,135      34,792       36,531       38,358     303,310         1.8%       16 7%
Other Expenses & Claims           22.950       32,023       33,624      35,305       37,070      38,924       40,870     314,950       123 9%       16 5%
subtotal: working costs    159,865  223,032      234,184     245,893      258,188     271,097      284,652    2,269,271       14 9%        14 3%                     D
Depreciation:
Rolling Stock (2A)  .33,945               34,691       35,455       36,235      37,032       37,846      38,679      352,109        10.0%       14.5%
Facilities & Equipment        75,779      75,779       75,779       75,779      75,779       75,779      75,779      739,540         1.7%       11.8%
subtotal: depreciation  109,723    110,470      111,233     112,013      112,810     113,625      114,458    1,091,649        317%/o      12 6%
total operating expenses    269,588   333,503     345,417      357.907     370,998      384,723      399,110    3,360,919       10 7%        13 8%
OPERATINGINCOME/I(LOSS)          _   (33,022)     (     I36,61) -   (38,833)  (18.304)  (20292)  =   3,789    _  2,144   _(195,597)            NA        NA
NON-OPERATING INCOME (3           _        0            0           0            0            0_0                      0 _         0           NA          NA
NON-OPERATING EXPENSES (4) -   __= __=_
Interest (net)                    186,843     191,437      189,023     186,198      177,601    1699,543     160,933    2,116,315         -NA          NA
Others                                 0            0           0            0           0            0           0            0           NA          NA
total non-operating expenses  186,843     191,437     189,023      186,198     177,601      169,543      160,933    2,116,315         NA           NA
EXTRAORDINARY INCOME (5                    0            0  __ o _   0o _                  _  O 0          o 00  _=                 0           NA           NA
NET INCOME / (LOSS)                  (219,866)   (228,088)    (227,856)   (204,502)    (197,893)    (165,754)   (158,789)  (2,311,913)         NA          NA
INDICATOS                                          <                                         0<_ _                       _                                                     -    =  0Xt
Working Ratio (6)                       67.60/o     75.1%       776.4        72.4%        73.6% V     69.8%/.      70.9%                           .
Operating Ratio (7)                    114.0%      112.3%       112.7%      105.4%/_   105.8%    124. 990/%-    99.5%
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets (8)  -1.2%        -1.4%/      -iS0!        -0.8%   __0.9%           0 20/o    -. M 
Recovery ot Working Costs
&Rolling Stock Depreciation (9)   122.1%       115.2%,     113.7%       120.4%      118.8%,      125~8%       124.1%       



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                         Page 1 of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTA)
Table 2: Actual & Forecast Funds Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
Subsidy Scenario
(in millions of current won)
_________     ~ACTUAL           _____FORECAST
ITEM                       1990        1991         1992        1993         1994        1995         19961       1997         1998        1999         2000
SOURCES OF FUNDS
____                             ___               __~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  ~        ~~__A84_0 4_ ______ (I6776)  816,61
Net Incme  -  18,5571 74,703  ___~65296)    j2,042)_J84,04)    (102536)   _(10868) _   12,796(I_087,34____1367.748
Depreci ation                      19,450      20,025       19.966      21,666       24,438      24,611       24.788 _ 24,969          67,645      69,077       71,787
_Interest on LongJerm Debt __        64.300  __64,314         64.423      47,518       80,471     101,493      113,646     126,571      141,632     150,151      173,074
Other Non-Cash Items               16,356       7,759       (3,127)1     9,377           0            0            0           0            0           0            0
totalt-intemal    (18,451)    17.395       15,966       6,519       20,905      23,568       30.348      28,744       71,929      51,465       58,230
Pre-'94 Borrowvings (aggregate)  265,268      134.730      131,622     250,000           0            o___  0     0  _____   0             0            0            0
OBIAD                                    0                        0            0  __       0       27,438      27,438       13,719 ___                    0           0
Other Proect-Relsied Debt  0  0           0  _         0      163.~~~~~~~~631  187,11A9  137,361    15039       182,039      190,970     182,178
-SubwayBnd                                0           0 _   _      0  _        0      118,000      131,260     144,320      15,5        1467          9,9    211,2499
Misc. Short-Ternm Debt                 0            0           0            0           0            0           0            0            0           0       55,645
totaltborrowinqs    265,268    134,730     131.622     250,000      281,631      345,757     309,119      322.830     356,666      383.060     449,121
Govermment SubsidiesI (10)
National G-overnment              29,637       20.000      40,000  __60,000         147,038     329,531      1586        1,77         259,038     15,3         1468
City o Pusan                        4,000       5,000       20,000      30,000       60,000      65,000       70.000      68,000       60,000      60,000       60,000
total subsidies   33,637      25.000       60,000      90,000      207,036     394,531      235.866     244,757      319,038     212,836      205,663
TOTAL SOURCES        280,454      177.125     207,588     346,519      509,573      763,856     575,333      596,332     747,633      647,361     713,035
_____             ~~~00
APPLICATIONS OFFUD__
Capital Projects (1 1)                 10,220      53.423       8.4.000    222,982      348,150     398,125      263,465     267,029      356,150      371,344     342,733
Incrase/Decrase)in Working Cpt0                   54)      1,3)_    1.500  (_30,896) _ (_12,700)              30,0O31 ___1,463)    (20,932)   (_18,279)          4,129
Interest_P ayrnents:                     _________
On Pre94 Debt                  64,300      64,314       64,423      47,518       72,725      76,148       70,914    _68,625        67,347       18,215      15,430
BAD                   0           ~~           ~~~~~~                             ~~~~0  0  0    995i  2,984  4,476    4,973        4,97        4,973
Project-Related Debt      __       0            0           0            0       7,746       24,351      39,748       53,471      69,312       87,053      104,818
Subway Bonds              ____0                 0           0            0           0            0           0            0  __       0_ 39,911            44.375
Misc. Short-TeffnDebt              0            0           0            00                       0     0                  0           0            0        3,478
total interest payrnents  64,300     64,314       64,423      47,518       80,471      101,493     113,646      126,571     141,632      150,151      173,074
Prn ipa  eayffent:                    _____
On Pre94 Debt                 166,737      7659         53,380      70,454   _00,763   _2541              8692         9777- 700                6,30         330
_ _ __3RD_ _ _0                                   0   _   _   0           -0           0            0           0            0            0           0   __      0
~~~~~~eae  Debt__                            0                  0            0  ____                              0            0           0            0       10,909
Subw  Bonds        _                            0                 0            0           0                  0 __                             1,0         131,200
Misc. Short-TermnDebt              0            0                                                         0                      0                  0            0
total principal payments    166,737   76,539       53,380      70,454      100,763     275,471      186,952      197,177     270,500 1    180,350     195,429
total debtiservice  231,037     140,853     117,803      117,972     181,234      376,964     300,598      323,749     412,132      330,501      368,503
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS         241,257      193,729     190,460      3.42,454    498,488      762,390     594,095      569,315     747,351      683.566     715,368
I-  ncrease (pecraa  nCah            39,197  1j6,04            7,128       4,065       11,085        1,466     18762)        7017           282       36206)       (2,331)
-Cash at Beinn   fYear         20,000       59,197      42,593       59,721      63,786       74,871      76,338       57,576      64,593       64,875       28,669
Cash at End tYer        59,197      42,593       59,721      63,786       7481        76,338       57,5~76      64.593      64,875      2869          6,3
INDICATORS__                          _  _  _  _  _  _ _    _ _  _ _       __  ___                                 _ __-
DeiriceC-overage 131.17                          0.88         1.15        1.03         1.06         1.00        0.94         1.02        1.00         089         0.99
Seff-Financing Ratio (1 4)       1         0            0            0           01           0           01           0           01           01          0            0



REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                      Page 2 of 2
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pusan Urban Transit Authority (PUTTA)
Table 2: Actual & Forecast Funds Statements for Years Ending 1990-2007
Subsidy Scenario
(in millions of current won)
FORECAST
TOTAL:
ITEM                     2001        2002        2003        2004         2005        2006        2007  1994-2007
SOURCES OF FUNDS
*tpternal Sources__
Net Income                 |   t219,866- (228,088)    227,856)   (204,502)   (197,893)   (165,754)   (158,789)  t2,31i,913)
Depreciation                    109,723     110,470     111,233     112,013     112,810     113,625     114,458  _ 1,091,649
Interest on Long-Term Debt      188,818     192,588     193,171     193,234     189,298     182,153     178,043   2,204,347
Other Non-Cash Items                 0            0           0           0           0           0           0           0
total - intemal  78,676      74,971      76,549     100,745     104,216     130,025     133,712     984,083
Blorrowings (10j 1 
Pre-'94 Borrowings (aggregate)       0            0   . .    0            0           0           0           0       _   0
IBRD                                 0            0           0           0           0           0           0      68,595
Other Project-Related Debt           0            0           0           0           0           0           0    1,193,656
Subway Bonds                    232,429     255,672     281,239     309,363     340,299     374,329     411,761    3,335,380
Misc. Short-Term Debt            41,672           0           0           0           0           0           0       97,316
total borrowings    274,101  255,672     281,239     309,363      340,299     374,329     411,761    4,694,947
Govemment Subsidies (101
National Govemment               72,184      60.000      60,000      60,000      60,000      60,000      60,000    1,808,933
City of Pusan                    60,000      60,000      60,000      60,000      60,000      60,000       60,000     863,000
total subsidies    132,184  120,000     120,000     120,000     120,000     120,000      120,000   2,671,933
TOTAL SOURCES       484,961     450,643     477,788     530,108     564,515     624,353      665,473   8,350,963
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capitl Projects 11)_ __             48,736            0 _         0           0    X      0           0     =    0   2,395,732
Increase/(Decrease) in Working Capital  63,345   (3,279)      2,534)      2660)      (2,793)      2,339        3080       (4042
Deb Sevc (1208 .
Interest Payments:                 -- _-.
On Pre'94 Debt                13,007      11,704      10,401       9,098       7,795       6,492       5,189  _ 453,092
IBRDO  __                     4,973       4,774       4,376       3,879       3,382       2,884       2 ,387      50,030
P Loect-Related Debt    _ 112,465      110,251     107,166     103,122      97,968      91,559      83,992    1,093,021
Subway Bonds                 48,813      53,694      59,063      64,970      71,467      78,613      86,475      547,381
Misc. Short-Term Debt         9,560      12,165      12,165      12,165       8,687       2,604           0       60,823
total interest payments    188,818  192,588    193,171     193,234     189,298     182,153     178,043    2,204,347
Prncipal Repayment:                _                                      .
On Pre'94 Debt               24,600      24,600       24,600      24,600      24,600      24,600      24,600    1,318,733
IBRD                          2,744       5,488       6,860       6,860       6,860       6,860       6,860      42,529
Proect-Related Debt           23,383      32,541      42,565      53,822      67,432      79,577      79,577     389,806
Subway Bonds                144,320     158,752     174,627     192,090     211,299     232,429     255,672    1,618,389
Misc. Short-Term Debt            0            0           0           0      55,645      41,672           0       97,316
total principal payments    195,047  221,380    248,651     277,372     365,835     385,137     366,709   3,466,773
total debt service    383,866  413,969    441,822     470,605      555,133     567,291     544,752    5,671,120
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS    495,946        410,690     439,289     467,945      552,340     564,358     541,672    8,062,811            r
Increase Decrease) In Cash    (10,985)    39,953      38,499      62,162      12,175      59,995     123,801     E
Cash at Beginning of Year      26,338   15,353      55,306      93,804      155,967 _168,141       228,137
Cash at End of Year    15,353      55,306      93,804     155,967     168,141     228,137     351,938                                            >
INDICATORS 0
Debt Service Coverage (13)             0.97        1.10        1.09        1.13         1.02        1.11        1.23                                        0
Sell-Financing Ratio (14)                O            0 O         O           O       _        O  _        O                                                    -



- 100-                                  Annex 17
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Name of Document                       Prepared By                    Date
1.   Pusan Modal Integration Facilities   Pusan City Government       Jan. 1994
and Congestion Management        Republic of Korea
2.   East-West Highway Plan            Pusan City Government          July 1992
3.   Basic Plan for the Establishment of  Korea Transport Institute   October, 1990
East-West Urban Rail Transit in  (KOTI)
Pusan City
4.   Economic Analysis of Modal        Yoo-Shin Engineering           August, 1994
Integration Facilities (Nopo and  Corporation
Tognae): Technical Memo
5.   Environmental Impact Assessment   Yoo-Shin Engineering           April, 1991
Report for Line 2 in Pusan       Corporation
6.   Comments on the EIA Report by     Ministry of Environment        February 1994
MOE                              (MOE)
7.   PUTA's Response to MOE's          Pusan Urban Transit Authority   February 1994
Comments                         (PUTA)                         May 10, 1994
8.   EIA Supplementary Report                                         July 1991
9.   Results of MOE Monitoring of                                     February 19, 1994
Lines 1 and 2 Construction



IBRD 25727
DEM PEOPLE'S  _ 
REPOF KOREA                     \                      126'00' TO Tregu   KiYUNGSANG    -
* SEOUL         st                                                         /    PUSAN 
sct,  X  >  HOPO  v  SPECIAL CITY           Epresswoy
REP OF
YeUc'w      KOREA
Seo                                                              I 
Pusan     3515                         //                                                              35'I 5
Cheju 1.                                       /
_  >      . . _ _ / ~~~~~~~~~ -  ^  1       2 ~~~~ Line 2                              TOGAN 
r  ~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ;      Z                :~~~~~~~~a~u  ONCHON        /
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c  /\ KPEot WestJ
%              /    ti/lQMNAK                                 ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~KYODAEA? < 
U ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~YY
KIMHAE                                                           /             UO          \
|  w   INTERNATIONAL         1                                     1l //  \            \ / UN
If               AIRPORT                                              (                                                  /~T. Ul-o
- 35U1>\ s   lEXISTIgAMJON   CON TSt/T/O .OPOSE
Moson-Pusrn E.pesry_MOy 'R      
South  /e                                                   CONGESTED CBD PARKINN    D C POMILT
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                MODA TRANSFE FACILITIES
/  t/   \                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~CHWACHON                  asnO e 
The bondris (oos                                                                E/XPESA '(TOL
denominations and  any~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in 
on thi  map   o o
The World anGropPusai 
_35'05'                                     J7~J') 1 0                                                                       351055-
)  REPUBLIC OF KOREA
S ~PUSAN URBAN TRANSPORT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
/                      ~~~~~~~~UNDEP
;              ~~~~~EXISTING CONKREFION PROPOSED
-              - ~~~~~~ SUBWAY SYSTEM
South Sea                                                               .CONGESTED CBD PARKING DISTRICT
*MODAL TRANSFER FACILITIES
The. boundaries. colors,                                                                          XRSWY(OL
denominotions ond any                                                                             XRSWY(OL
other information sho-wnN OD
an this mop  d.  not                                                                              AN OD
The World Bo0nk Group,                                                                           RAILROADS
onyatus ofeatnoy terrltory,               Bll         2    1                                      UILT-UP AREAS
or any endorsement                                   KILOMETEIRS                                 DISTRICT (GU) BOUNDARIES
boundaries.                                                                            _ _       CITY LIMIT
1 25-55'                               1 26 00'                                  12505'
MAY 1994'



