Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3828 KO
                              Loan Agreement
                (Pusan Urban Transport Management Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated March 3, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3828 KO
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    (B) Parts A and C (ii) of the Project will be carried out by
Pusan City with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Pusan City a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
    (C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by Pusan Urban
Transit Authority (PUTA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
PUTA a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Pusan City Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and Pusan City and in the PUTA Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and PUTA;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
    "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
          under which any further withdrawals under the
          Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
          Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
          Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a) "MOT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport;
    (b) "Pusan City Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and Pusan City of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Pusan City
Project Agreement;
    (c) "Pusan City Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Pusan
City pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Pusan City Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
the term Pusan Subsidiary Loan means the loan provided therein;
    (d) "PUTA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and Pusan Urban Transit Authority of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the PUTA
Project Agreement;
    (e) "PUTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PUTA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
PTUC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term PUTA Subsidiary
Loan means the loan provided therein;
    (f) "PUTA" means Pusan Urban Transit Authority, established
and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No 3960 dated
November 28, 1987 (hereinafter the "PUTA Legislation"), and its
Articles of Incorporation dated July 1, 1988 (hereinafter the
"PUTA Charter"); and
    (g) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Page  3
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
in the Korea Exchange Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c) For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
       (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or
Page  4
                the second six months of a calendar year.
    (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)   shall carry out Parts A and C (ii) of the Project
                through Pusan City, Part B thereto through PUTA
                and Part C (i) thereto through MOT, all with due
                diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                appropriate administrative, engineering,
                transport, environmental and financial practices
                and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                facilities, services and other resources required
                for such Parts of the Project; and
          (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its
                other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
                Borrower shall cause Pusan City and PUTA to
                perform all their obligations set forth in the
                Pusan City Project Agreement and the PUTA Project
                Agreement, respectively, shall take or cause to
                be taken all action, including the provision of
                funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                necessary or appropriate to enable Pusan City and
                PUTA to perform such obligations, and shall not
                take or permit to be taken any action which would
                prevent or interfere with such performance.
    (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall on April 30 of each year,
commencing on April 30, 1995, and thereafter, furnish to the
Bank annual progress reports on the carrying out of the
training programs for MOT staff under Part C of the Project.
Page  5
    (c) The Borrower shall relend to Pusan City the equivalent
in Dollars (determined on the date or respective dates of
withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency
or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
expenditures for Part A of the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Categories 1, 2 and 4(a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $17,500,000 equivalent, under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Pusan City, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank including the principal terms
and conditions specified in paragraph (e) of this Section;
    (d) The Borrower shall relend to PUTA the equivalent in
Dollars (determined on the date or respective dates of
withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency
or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost
of goods and services for Part B of the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Categories 3 and 4(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $82,500,000 equivalent, under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and PUTA, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank including the principal terms and
conditions specified in paragraph (e) of this Section:
    (e) Each of Pusan City and PUTA shall:
          (i)   pay interest on the principal amount of its
          Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
          time, at a rate per annum equal to the rate applicable
          from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05
          of this Agreement;
          (ii)  pay a commitment charge on the principal amount of
          its Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time
          equal to the charge applicable from time to time to the
          Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement;          and
          (iii)   repay the principal amount of its Subsidiary
          Loan within 15 years, including five years of grace.
    (f) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Pusan
City Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the PUTA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive either the
Pusan City Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the PUTA Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of: (a) Part A of the Project shall be carried out by
Pusan City pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Pusan City Project
Agreement; and (b) Part B of the Project shall be carried out
by PUTA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the PUTA Project Agreement.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
    (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
Page  6
    (c) thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Pusan City shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Pusan City Project Agreement.
    (b)   PUTA shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the PUTA Project Agreement.
    (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that either Pusan
City or PUTA will be able to perform its obligations under the
Pusan City Project Agreement or the PUTA Project Agreement,
respectively.
    (d)   Either the PUTA Legislation or the PUTA Charter shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of PUTA to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of either Pusan City or PUTA or for the
suspension of their operations.
    Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower;
    (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   the Pusan City Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and Pusan City; and
    (b)   the PUTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PUTA.
    Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
    (a)   that the Pusan City Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Pusan City, and is legally binding
upon Pusan City in accordance with its terms;
    (b)   that the PUTA Project Agreement has been duly
Page  7
authorized or ratified by PUTA, and is legally binding upon
PUTA in accordance with its terms;
    (c)   that the Pusan City Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Pusan City and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and Pusan City in
accordance with its terms; and
    (d)   that the PUTA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PUTA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PUTA in accordance with its
terms;
    Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Kwachon
          Korea
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                MOF                            K23243
                Kwanchon, Korea
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                       By /s/ Shin Myoung Ho
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  8
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                   East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.        The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1) Civil works                    16,000,000      32%
    under Part A
    of the Project
(2) Traffic Management                500,000      100% of foreign
    equipment under                                expenditures,
    Part A of the                                  100% of local
    Project                                        expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 65%
                                                   of local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items
                                                   procured locally
(3) Rail cars for                  82,000,000      100% of foreign
    Phase I/Line 2                                 expenditures,
    under Part B of                                100% of local
    the Project                                    expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 65%
                                                   of local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items
                                                   procured locally
(4) Technical
    Assistance:
    (a) under Part A
    of the Project                   1,000,000      100%
    (b) under Part B
    of the Project                     500,000      100%
                                   ___________
          TOTAL                    100,000,000
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
Page  9
the territory of the Borrower.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.        The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods not exceeding
$200,000 equivalent; (b) services not exceeding $100,000
equivalent; and (c) civil works not exceeding $2,000,000
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to
promote the effectiveness of an urban rail transit system in
Pusan City, through demand management measures and modal
integration and policy reforms in areas of public parking and
transit pricing.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Congestion Management
(i)       Development and implementation of a transport demand
management strategy and a policy of modal integration to
encourage the use of public transport to and from the congested
central areas of Pusan City, including the construction of
passenger interchange and park-and-ride facilities in selected
subway stations including those located at Nopo and Tongnae,
and enhancing the performance of the existing bus system
between Mandok-ro and Chungyol-ro.
(ii)      Carrying out of a study of transport demand management
and transport system management in Pusan City for the period
1996-2001.
Part B: Expansion of Pusan Urban Transit System Capacity
(i)       Enhancement of the capacity of Pusan City Subway System
through the provision of about 52 subway cars for Line 1 and of
about 258 subway cars for Phase I/Line 2.
(ii)      Carrying out of a study of an appropriate bus and
subway fare structure for Pusan City.
(iii) Carrying out of a study to identify alternative long-term
financing strategies for undertaking subway projects in Pusan
City.
Part C: Institutional Development
    Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Borrower's
central and local transport agencies through:
    (i)   the carrying out of training programs, including (A) a
national training program on transport planning, transport
economics and finance, investment planning and project
appraisal, project management and monitoring, public transport
operations, transport demand management and legal and
regulatory framework for transport; (B) an overseas training
program to master degree level in transportation; and (C)
training of MOT staff in transport management practices and
procedures; and
Page  10
    (ii)        provision of technical assistance to the
Transportation Planning Division of Pusan City.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
    beginning June 15, 2000
    through June 15, 2009                      $5,000,000
    and on December 15, 2009                   $5,000,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
Page  11
More than six years but                        0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories
1, 2 and 4(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                   requests for deposits into the Special
                   Account at such intervals as the Bank
                   shall specify.
          (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such
                   request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                   Bank the documents and other evidence
                   required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                   Schedule for the payment or payments in
                   respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such
Page  12
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
                   and deposit into the Special Account such
                   amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been
                   paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for Part A of the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Part A of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for Part A of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  13
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund
to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
