Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24715
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 95 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR THE
SECOND RURAL EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
March 27, 2003
Water, Environment, Rural and Social Development
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 6, 2002)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DA)
DA 1 = US$0.0125
US$1 = DA 79.915
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AER         Agricultural Expenditure Review
ANRH     :  Agence National des Ressources Hydrauliques - National Water Resources Agency
AP          Autorisation de Programme - Program Authorization (in the Budget)
AR          Administrative Regulation
BAD         Banque Algerienne de Developpement - Algerian Development Bank
BADR        Banque d'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural - Agricultural and Rural Development
Bank
BHC         Bureaux d'Hygiene Municipaux - Municipal Hygiene Bureaus
BNEDER:     Bureau National d'Etudes pour le Developpement Rural - National Bureau for Rural
Development Studies
BP          Bank Procedures
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy - Strategie d 'Assistance au Pays
CCGP        Cellule Centrale de Gestion du Projet - Central Project Management Unit
CCGW        Cellule de Coordination et de Gestion de Wilaya - Wilaya level Project Coordination and
Management Unit
CDF         Conservations des Forets - Forestry Directorates of the Wilaya
CDMW        Commission de Marches de Wilaya - Governorate Tender Boards
CFAA        Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CNM         Commission National de Marches - National Tender Board
CNMA        Caisse National de Mutualite Agricole - National Agricultural Credit Union
CP          Credit de Paiemnent - Payment Credit (advance)
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Report
CQ          Consultant's Qualifications
CREAD       Centre de Recherche en Economie Appliquee pour le Developpement - Applied Economics
for Development Research Center
CQ          Consultant's Qualifications
CRMA        Caisse Regional de Mutualite Agricole - Regional Agricultural Credit Union
DA          Algerian Dinar
DAS         Domaines Agricoles Socialistes - State Farns
DC          Direct Contracting
DEP         Direction d'Equipement (du BAD) - Investment Directorate (of BAD)
DGF         Direction Generale des Forets - General Directorate of Forestry
DHW         Direction Hydraulique de Wilaya - Wilaya Water Directorates
DPIEE       Direction de la Programmation des investissements et des Etudes Economiques -
Directorate of Investment Programming and Economic Studies
DSA         Directions des Services Agricoles - Wilaya Agricultural Services Directorates
EA          Enviromnental Assessment



EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EAC        Exploitations Agricoles Collectives - Collective Farms
EAI        Exploitations Agricoles Individuelles - Individual Farms
EIE     :  Etudes dI'mpact Envirennmentaux - Environmental Impact Assessment Studies
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FARAH       Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FDRMVTC: Fond de Developpement Rural et de Mise en Valeur des Terres par Concession - Fund for
Rural Development and Land Development through Concessions
FEF         Front end fee
FM          Financial Management
FMR         Financial Monitoring Reports
FMS         Financial Management System
FNDA        Fond National de Developpement Agricole - National Agricultural Development Fund
FNRDA      Fond National de la Regulation et de Developpement Agricole - National Agricultural
Development and Regulation Fund
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
FSL         Fixed spread loan
FY          Fiscal Year (of the World Bank)
GIS         Global Information Systems
GP          Good Practice
GPN         General Procurement Notice
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IFAC        International Federation of Accountants
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
IGF         Inspection Generale des Finances - General Inspectorate of Finance (audit agency)
INPV        Institut National de la Protection des Vegetaux- National Plant Protection Institute
ISA         International Standards of Auditing
IT         Information Technology
LS          Local Shopping
LSI         Large Scale Irrigation
LSMS        Living Standards Measurement Study
MADR       Ministere de l 'Agriculture et de Developpement Rural - Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development
MDF        Minisiere des Finances - Ministry of Finance
MENA       Middle East and North Africa Region
MICL       Ministere de l'Interieur et des Collectivites Locales - Ministry of the Intenor and
Municipalities
M&E         Monitonng and Evaluation
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NPV        Net Present Value
NS         National Shopping
NGO        Nongovernmental Organization(s)
OP         Operational Policy
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PAP        Plan d'Amenagement Pastorale - Pastoral Management Plan
PCD        Project Concept Document



PDAR     :  Programme de Developpement Agricole et Rural - Agricultural and Rural Development
Program
PER      :  Public Expenditure Review
PERI        Projet Emploi Rural - Rural Employment Project
PER2        Deuxieme Projet d'Emploi Rural - Second Rural Employment Project
PFS         Project Financial Statements
PGE         Plan de Gestion Environnementale - Environmental Management Plan
PHRD     :  Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIM         Project Implementation Manual
PIP         Project Implementation Plan
PMU         Project Management Unit(s)
PNAE-DD: Plan National d'Action pour Environnement et Developpement Durable - National Action
Plan for the Environment and Sustainable Development
PNDA     :  Plan National de Developpement Agricole - National Agricultural Development Plan
PNDAR       Plan National de Developpement Agricole et Rural - National Agricultural and Rural
Development Plan
PSD         Private Sector Development
PSRE     :  Programme de Soutien Li la Relance Economique - Program of Support for Economic
Rehabilitation
QCBS        Quality and Cost Based Selection
REA     :   Regional Environmental Assessment (for the Project Zone)
SA          Special Account
SDP     :   Standard Disbursement Percentages
SME     :   Small and Medium Enterprises
SMI         Small and Medium Scale Irrigation
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
TTL         Task Team Leader
TOR         Terms of Reference
UNDB     :  United Nations Development Business
VAT      :  Value Added Tax
WB          World Bank
WUA     :   Water User Association
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:  Theodore 0. Ahlers
Sector Manager:   Petros Aklilu
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Kutlu Somel



ALGERIA
SECOND RURAL EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Sumnmary
1. Project components                                                                 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     11
3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                          16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      17
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 18
4. Indications of borrower conmmitment and ownership                                 21
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:                                       22
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          22
2. Financial                                                                         23
3. Technical                                                                          24
4. Institutional                                                                      24
5. Environmental                                                                     25
6. Social                                                                            27
7. Safeguard Poli,ies                                                                 30



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  31
2. Critical risks                                                                  32
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  34
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         35
2. Other                                                                           35
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      50
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        51
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  55
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                 56
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       64
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                74
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         78
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                           80
Annex 12: Summary of Environmental Assessment                                         98
MAP(S)
IBRD 32215



ALGERIA
Second Rural Employment Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSRE
Date: March 27, 2003                             Team Leader: Kutlu Somel
Sector Director: Letitia A. Obeng                Sector(s): Crops (45%), Forestry (35%), Irrigation and
Country Director: Theodore 0. Ahlers             drainage (10%), General agriculture, fishing and forestry
Project ID: P076784                              sector (10%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural non-farm income generation (P), Rural
services and infrastructure (P), Civic engagement,
participation and community driven development (P),
Gender (P), Social analysis and monitoring (S)
[Project Financing Data,
[X] Loan    [ I Credit   [ Grant      [ Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 95.0
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:  Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 3
Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Maintain as Variable, 6-month LIBOR plus fixed spread
Type of repayment schedule:
[ I Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
(XI Linked to Disbursement
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                     24.22           0.00        24.22
IBRD                                                         89.00           6.00        95.00
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                           23.67           0.00        23.67
Financing Gap                                               -89.00          89.00
Total:                                                       47.89          95.00        142.89



Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
General Directorate of Forestry
Address: Direction Generale des Forets, Parc Zoologique, Ben Aknoun, Alger, Algerie
Contact Person: Monsieur Salah Bourahla, Directeur G6neral
Tel 213 21 91 53 16           Fax: 213 21 91 53 17           Email: dgf(wissal.dz; per2@wissal.dz;
per2bis(yahoo.fr
Other Agency(ies):
Directorate of Investment Programming and Economic Studies
Address: Direction de la Programmation des Investissements et des Etudes Economiques (DPIEE)
Ministere de l'Agriculture et de D6veloppement Rural
Contact Person: Monsieur Idir Bais, Directeur
Tel: 213 21 74 57 52          Fax: 213 21 74 57 52           Email: Idirbais@yahoo.fr
Estimated Disbursement in US$m Equivalent (Bank FY/Semesters):
FY    2003     2004        2005      2006      2007       2008      2009
Source         Sem. 1    Sem. 1    Sem. 1     Sem. I    Sem. 1    Sem. 1     Sem. 1
Sem. 2    Sem. 2     Sem. 2    Sem. 2    Sem. 2     Sem. 2    Sem. 2
IBRD                           5.03      10.47     16.59      8.87      6.30       0.45
5.03      10.48     16.60      8.87      6.31
Cumulative                   $10.06    $31.01    $64.20     $81.94    $94.55    $95.00 _
Project implementation period: Five and a half years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2003  Expected closing date: 06/30/2009
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project seeks to generate and stimulate rural employment in poor rural mountainous areas of
northwest and north-central Algeria. In the first instance, the Project aims to respond in the short-term
to the cntical problem of unemployment in the target rural areas through direct employment creation,
using labor-intensive civil works for natural resource management emphasizing soil erosion control. The
longer-term perspective emphasizes the instrument of asset creation for stimulating employment, mainly
through natural resource management, protection of the environment, water resource mobilization, and
income-generating rural development activities aiming at the substitution of perennial tree crops in place
of annual cereal production, with the purpose of increasing labor productivity in a sustainable manner.
Asset creation is defined broadly as the enhanced availability of resources that can be used directly or
indirectly in productive activities. Examples are infrastructure with important extemalities; maintenance
of the natural resource base by reducing soil erosion; perennial fruit tree orchards and vineyards adapted
and appropriate for the agro-ecological environment instead of annual low productivity cereals; enhanced
availability of water for irrigation and human consumption; etc. Unemployment is a structural problem in
Algeria. Hence, longer term solutions are necessary to address the problem. Short term solutions such as
direct transfers can alleviate shortfalls in income and consumption flows but need to be complemented by
actions and measures with durable effects. In that context, it is necessary to focus on asset creation which
will have longer term effects, particularly on labor productivity.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
A baseline survey will be conducted during project implementation by consultants in charge of
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) to measure progress against. Monitonng and evaluation will comprise
regular activities for periodic reports on physical and employment progress and occasional studies on
assessing impact, based on surveys and modeling. Key performance indicators are:
*   creation of 36,000 person-years of direct employment through labor-intensive activities
*   increase in rural household incomes and assets through increases in production
*   indirect employment and PSD effects from increased economic activity and incomes
*   improved capacity in the central and decentralized Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development (MADR) and General Directorate of Forestry (DGF) administration through
training and studies
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R96-15[Rev.]    Date of latest CAS discussion: February 27, 1996
The current CAS dates from 1996. Preparation of a new CAS is underway and Board presentation is
expected in the fourth quarter of FY03. The 1996 CAS was intended to be a 12-month strategy. It
followed a difficult period of adjustment in the early 90s, when shortfalls in oil revenues led to debt
management problems. In 1994-1995, Algeria initiated a series of measures for macroeconomic
stabilization and structural adjustment. Measures entailed a significant devaluation of the overvalued
Algerian Dinar (DA), regulatory changes and elimination of extensive producer and consumer subsidies,
the former particularly in agriculture, when all producer subsidies (input and product) but those for wheat
and irrigation water were eliminated.
-3-



Hence, the focus of the 1996 CAS was the management of the transition, particularly the social impact of
liberalization. In the environment existing in 1995/1996, the main objective of the transitional strategy
was to capitalize on the window of opportunity existing then to deepen and ensure the irreversibility of
the reforms as the central condition for future growth. Two key priority elements of the strategy were:
o   stimulating private sector-led employment generating growth through a deepening of the reform
program; and
o   protectmg the poor during the transition through targeted operations.
Quick employment generation and protection of the vulnerable groups for employment were seen to be
crucial to safeguard the reform progran and resolve the social crisis affecting the country. Among the
priorities was accelerating the implementation of well-targeted labor intensive programs in agriculture.
This was subsequently supported by a poverty assessment study, based on 1988 and 1995 LSMS data,
which showed that 70 percent of the poor in Algeria live in rural areas.
The first Rural Employment Project was thus prepared in 1996 and became effective in 1997. Given its
satisfactory performance and impact on both rural development and employment, a second Rural
Employment project was signaled to be a priority in the context of the dialogue between the Bank and the
Government.
The 1996 CAS is still valid in areas of concem to the Second Rural Employment Project. The CAS under
preparation is an open, inclusive and collaborative exercise. Several fora were utilized to involve
stakeholders, such as the representatives of the private sector, trade unions, the academia and the civil
society along with the administration. These general level meetings would be followed by thematic and
sectoral meetings (e.g., water sector, social aspects, etc.). In that context, an initial meeting was held
between Algeria and the Bank, in Ghardaia in April 2002, towards the preparation of a strategy of
cooperation in "agricultural, agro-industrial and rural development," with the participation of the
representatives of farmers, the private sector in agricultural services and agroindustry, academicians,
agricultural financial institutions, researchers and central and decentralized agricultural administration.
The focus of the present project, as well as the performance of the ongoing Rural Employment Project
(PERI: Loan 4143-AL; Project No. P043724; PAD Report No. 16343-AL dated March 3, 1997); were
discussed. The emphasis on sustainable development and natural resource management was a particular
aspect of the discussions which gives credibility to the efforts in the proposed and ongoing project.
Furthermore, the sectoral strategy and CAS discussions raised the point that the evolving market-oriented
policies of the Government for rural development need to develop an improved strategic framework, be
based on sound policy analysis, and emphasize the stimulation of investments in rural areas, as well as to
reorient the decentralized administration more used to implementing centrally planned interventions.
These recommendations led to the component on Institutional Development for the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR). The documents produced in the sectoral CAS meetings are
in the project files.
The Project is consistent with the Bank's Rural Development Strategy, as well as the MENA Regional
Strategy, in emphasizing the social problems of poverty and unemployment, in the focus on gender issues
and rural women, in promoting diversification, and private sector development (PSD) by encouraging
implementation by small and medium enterprises (SME) in the private sector. Finally, the project is also
consistent with Government strategies as expressed in the Econornic Rehabilitation Support Program (
Programme de Soutien a la Relance Economique - PSRE) and National Agricultural and Rural
Development Plan (Plan National de Developpement Agricole et Rural - PNDAR) (see next point for
definitions and discussion).
-4 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The rural sector in Algeria bears a disproportionate burden in terms of poverty, unemployment and
underemployment. The poverty assessment study carried out in 1996 indicates that 70 percent of the poor
in Algeria are in rural areas and that there is a close relationship between poverty and unemployment.
The rural areas are also affected by underemployment due to the seasonal nature of agricultural activities,
hence agricultural labor productivity is considerably lower than that in the other sectors.
Agriculture and agro-industry, dominated by private operators, have been a more dynamic element of the
economy, exhibiting average growth rates above the economy-wide average. However, agriculture is also
highly susceptible to climatic variability, and particularly drought, which has struck the country
persistently since the 90s, with some regions being particularly affected. This results in risk-averse
technology choices by producers, with low levels of investment and technology and low average yields in
critical (strategic) field crops, such as cereals.
In order to stimulate the rural and agricultural sectors, the Government developed and implemented a
National Agricultural Development Plan (Plan National de Developpement Agricole - PNDA) in 2000.
Subsequently, in 2001, the Government initiated the five year PSRE (2001 - 2004) into which the PNDA
was incorporated. After 2002, with the incorporation of the rural development perspective, PNDA
became PNDAR.
The objectives of the PNDAR are: (i) food security; (ii) exploitation of resources based on identified
potential; and (iii) protection of the environment. However, the "identified potential" could have been
overestimated and thus needs to based on research on both technical aspects as well as economic aspects
(competitiveness). The expectation that this potential is readily obtainable could have led to an emphasis
on targeted development incentives through subsidies as the common policy instrument.
The PNDAR is developed in the context of a market economy, and signals fundamentals such as "food
security rather than self-sufficiency", "competitiveness", "comparative advantage", "optimal use of
resources" (especially water), etc. These initiatives need to be supported by thorough policy analysis and
have adequate impact monitoring. Staff capacity in the MADR needs to be reinforced in developing
coherent programs around well assessed priorities, as well as for effective M&E.
Participation. One important aspect of the PNDAR is that it is more reliant on decentralized processes
and beneficiary participation than was the case historically. This is very important for the sustainability
of the interventions and for reducing recurrent costs of O&M. The experience of the Rural Employment
Project in this respect has been important.
PNDAR is made up of four principal programs: (i) the adaptation of production systems to climatic
conditions called reconversion; (ii) the modernization of farms, commonly called thefiliere program;
(iii) land development by concessions; and (iv) the national progran of reforestation.
The Reconversion Program aims to diversify agricultural production in the arid, semi-arid and
sub-humid zones by reducing the fallow and by replacing low productivity cereals with other crops and
activities that would: (i) manage the drought conditions better; (ii) arrest and reverse environmental
degradation arising from cereal monoculture with fallow, especially soil erosion and the encroachment of
the desert; and (iii) improve farner incomes.
The Filiere Program targets products with large public consumption such as wheat and milk. These are
development programs to encourage production and productivity increases through various incentives
- 5-



(financing inputs and wheat and milk producer price, interest rate and investment subsidies). They are
also ambitious and entail large fiscal outlays which need to be adequately analyzed. The potential and
actual impacts of this component need to be assessed.
The Concession Program encourages specific development projects for diverse purposes (e.g.,
development of a small irrigation perimeter in a given location). The projects need to be economically
viable, socially acceptable and environmentally sustainable. There is an element of participation in
financing in the costs of each project. If the project is able to remain successful, after five years, all
assets, including the land are supposed to be ceded to the beneficiaries. An assessment of the
performance of the program is needed. In particular, given the current problematic state of land tenure
rights, the cession of land to beneficiaries would have long term repercussions.
The National Program of Reforestation targets the watersheds and mountain areas, using the model of
the Rural Employment Project (Loan 4143-AL), namely both reforestation on public lands and expansion
of fruit trees on private lands through labor-intensive methods. In addition, forestry related activities,
such as plant production, are being introduced under concessions on public lands. The most serious
environmental problem in rural areas is soil erosion. A major effort aims to focus defensive forestry and
fruit tree establishment activities (reforestation, terracing, etc.) against soil erosion. These are efficient
uses of public resources utilizing labor-intensive approaches. The Bank-supported ongoing Rural
Employment Project is providing satisfactory results in this area. The Bank has already contributed to the
National Program of Reforestation in the PNDAR and the PSRE by including a supplementary program
for the wilayate (govemorates) of Relizane and Mostaganem under the ongoing Rural Employment
Project and by extending the closing date accordingly to allow for the realization of this supplementary
program.
New Ilnitiatives for the Steppes. The challenging area of the management of the steppes as an ecological
(diversity of flora and fauna) and economic asset (for grazing) will be tackled under a new initiative.
These fragile areas are subject to severe pressure from grazing and illicit encroachment of cultivation,
causing irreversible damage to the vast nappes alfati&res which are critical to soil stabilization.
Customary use rights based on tribal structures were at odds with development initiatives trying to
establish control over the use of resources on these public lands. The new initiative now would recognize
communities as the basic unit of development, in the spirit of decentralized and participatory approaches.
Agricultural and Rural Development. The program of new Government appointed after the elections of
May 2002 has reaffirmed the priority of agricultural and rural development and the continuation of the
initiatives under PNDAR, focusing on employment, sustainable development and preservation of natural
resources. One particular development was the establishment of State Minister (Ministre Delegue) post
for Rural Development in the Ministry of Agriculture, which was renamed Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development (Minist&re de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural - MADR).
The ongoing Rural Employment Project has influenced policy perspectives on matters related to
decentralized operations and participatory approaches for rural development. In this context, a new
Agricultural and Rural Development Program (PADR) is being developed in the spirit of the Rural
Employment Project with a "mise en valeur en proximite" perspective, implicating the decentralized
administration of other ministries in the wilayate as well. In this respect, several inter-ministerial
decisions have already been signed, in particular, one between the Ministry of the Interior and
Municipalities (MICL) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR). The former is
represented by the wali (govemor), the chief administrator in each province. Hence, coordination for
rural development is assured under the wali, implicating diverse ministries involved in rural development
- 6 -



such as water resources, housing, health, education, etc. The proposed Second Rural Employment Project
will thus be the driving element of the PDAR and mise en valeur en proximite efforts in the targeted
wilayate as well as the country as a whole.
Financing of PNDAR. The PNDAR programs are financed through arrangements supported by different
funds. The most important of these are the National Fund for the Regulation and Development of
Agriculture (Fond National de la Regulation et de Developpement Agricole - FNRDA), which is now
joined by the Fund for Rural Development and Land Development by Concessions (Fonds de
Developpement Rural et de Mise en Valeur des Terres par Concessions - FDRMVTC). The FNRDA
combines the two old funds for the Minimum Guaranteed Prices and the National Fund for Agricultural
Development (Fond National de Developpement Agricole - FNDA). The National Agricultural Credit
Union (Caisse National de Mutualite Agricole - CNMA), through its regional agencies of the Regional
Agricultural Credit Union (Caisse National de Mutualite Agricole - CRMA), and the Agricultural and
Rural Development Bank (Banque de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural - BADR) through its
agencies, are the specialized financial institutions for the management of the funds mentioned above.
The agricultural sector has been allocated a Program Authorization (Autorisation de Programme - AP) of
65 billion DA under the PSRE, which is equivalent to 12 percent of the total AP of 525 billion DA for a
five year period (2001-2004). This total will be higher if the imgation sector components, which are
currently under the Hydraulique heading, and the rural infrastructure activities are included. The bulk of
the AP for agriculture has been allocated to the reinforcement of programs supported by FNRDA (53.9
billion DA).
There is a close dialogue and cooperation between the Government and the Bank in agriculture and rural
development, which will be strengthened through the Institutional Development Component for MADR,
focusing on training and studies on areas such as capacity development, M&E systems, rural poverty
reduction, food security and competitiveness, agricultural credit mechanisms, etc. These activities will
complement and provide inputs for the Rural Development Sector Strategy Note, planned for FY03.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Addressing the problem of rural unemployment is the main focus of the proposed Project. The
instruments to be used in the Project emphasize natural resource management and protection of the
environment. These instruments are conducive to labor-intensive techniques and employment generation.
The Project represents continued commitment for what is a turning point for rural projects in Algeria. It
embodies the following strategic choices that the Government has made in addressing the problem of
rural poverty and unemployment: (i) a shift in emphasis from capital-intensive approaches to
labor-intensive ones, in line with the prevailing factor proportions in the country; (ii) the priority
accorded to small scale interventions; and (iii) finally, a change from centralized, top-down approaches
to a decentralized one where communities would be more involved in projects at various stages. Hence,
following upon the seeds of participatory approaches cast in the ongoing Rural Employment Project to
build the base for generating community involvement, the second Rural Employment Project will expand
the use of such approaches.
Preliminary observations in the field and assessment of the on-going project lead to a strategic choice on
the fundamental development impact with respect to reducing rural poverty. The poor farmers of the
target regions are primarily involved in low yield cereal production for family consumption, with
livestock to balance diets, budget and consumption flows. The events of the last decade had actually even
- 7 -



forced some to abandon their lands from which they derived their meager subsistence. This low level
equilibrium production system is not conducive to any accumulation for investments which could take
these farmers out of their poverty. The project would basically provide this possibility by supporting
investment in assets whereby farmers can rise out of poverty. That they will participate and have
participated in the investment process through their labor input enhances the ownership of the assets
created.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Project design focuses on the basic objectives of direct and indirect employment creation. Direct
employment creation aims to respond to the immediate problem of high unemployment in the project
area, and indirect employment creation aims to enhance the options for medium to long term
development for more sustainable employment through increased and more diversified production, both
on-farm and off-farm through increased demand for upstream and downstream services. The project also
aims to integrate rural women in project activities through direct access to project activities in general
and through specific activities targeting rural women, difficult as this may prove to be given the existing
socio-cultural conditions.
As indicated in Annex 11 on Social Assessment, the project focuses on participatory approaches in order
to enhance ownership of interventions and activities that are responsive to beneficiaries' needs. A
preliminary survey, using project staff who received basic training in participatory approaches, assisted
by trainers who had received training under the ongoing Rural Employment Project (PERI - Loan
4143-AL) and coordinated by a team of consultants, used diverse techniques to assess the needs and
constraints of men and women in the project zones (see Sondage Preliminaire in Documents in Project
Files). This was a new experience for both the project staff and the beneficiaries in the project zones: the
former for being able to work closely with the beneficiaries and respond to their needs, and the latter to
find government agencies interested in their perspective on issues and priorities. As a consequence,
project components were modified during project preparation to reflect the critical constraints in the
project zone. These changes are mainly in the increased emphasis on water resource mobilization and
technical aspects of diversification. Ultimately, project implementation will also entail a degree of
flexibility as is the case under PERI, to adapt to evolving conditions.
The project will comprise the following components to be implemented by the centralized and
decentralized administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR) and the
General Directorate of Forestry (DGF) through competitive market based procurement procedures,
emphasizing small lots as the basis of contracts to encourage SME.
Component 1: Soil Erosion Control (Total cost 1US$ 50.2 mllon; 1US$ 40.1 million Bank financing)
This is the critical project component that will serve as the instrument for direct short-term employment
creation, using labor-intensive techniques. The emphasis is on natural resource management targeting the
critical problem of soil erosion. A critical aspect of this component is the employment of forest area
riparians in a participatory manner to ensure the sustainability of interventions. Furthermore, where
pertinent, forestry and forage species will be combined in planting activities to respond to the
agro-pastoral characteristic of the project zone and pastoral management plans will be developed to
promote the sustainable exploitation of the natural resource base for grazing.
- 8 -



Specific activities comprise the following: reforestation; river bank management; terracing and biological
control; flood control infrastructures; forestry rehabilitation; and silvicultural activities.
Component 2: Agricultural Development (Total cost US$ 66.7 million; US$ 34.4 million Bank
financing)
This component aims to address employment within a medium to long term perspective through
agncultural development activities in the mountainous project areas. These areas are currently
characterized by a cereal-livestock system, mainly barley for feed and some wheat, and livestock, mainly
ovines (sheep and goats). This component aims to diversify the production base by expanding the limited
fruit tree production in the project area. Participation is a critical element of most agricultural
development activities. In fruit tree planting activities beneficiaries will contribute to 50 percent of costs
for digging the troughs and planting the trees. This participation will be either in the form of labor or
actual financial contribution. No mechanical methods will be allowed except for the deep ploughing
necessary for viticulture. In land clearing, beneficiaries will contribute 30 percent of costs through labor
or finances. Women will benefit from agricultural development activities in an integral manner as well as
through specific activities targeting rural women.
Fruit tree, grapevine and small livestock activities will be closely associated with extension efforts
through the Wilayate Agricultural Services Directorates (DSA - Directions des Services Agricoles) and
the Wilayate Forestry Directorates (CDF - Conservations des Forets), with emphasis on the requirements
for reaching female beneficiaries, choice of adapted species, cultural practices, including water-saving
irrigation methods.
Specific activities under this component are: rustic fruit tree plantations and irrigated fruit tree
plantations; viticulture; plant material production; windbreaks; land clearing; rural roads (upgrading and
rehabilitation); small livestock production; and artisanal activities.
Component 3: Water Resource Mobilization (Total Cost US$ 15.5 million; US$12.4 million Bank
financing)
Water resource mobilization is critical to project activities. The project zone is characterized by low
rainfall with significant intra- and inter-annual variation. While irrigation is practiced in the lower valleys
through large irrigation schemes, in the mountainous and hilly areas the water potential is not adequately
exploited for irrigation or potable water. In the project zone, capturing and managing existing water
resources will be a critical factor in relieving some of the risks arising from variable agro-climatic
conditions. This will also make clean potable water available to rural populations. As for irrigation,
certain activities will require the prerequisite of water availability (e.g., irrigated fruit trees). Irrigation, in
general, will allow more intensive and diversified agricultural production. Close coordination will be
maintained with the Directions Hydraulique de Wilaya (DHW - Govemorate Water Directorates) in
water resource mobilization activities, particularly for the activities of hill dams and wells. The choice of
the sites for the hill dams and deep wells will be authorized by the DHW, complemented by additional
studies and exploratory drilling where necessary. In all cases, water has to be of adequate quantity and
quality for the subsequent investment activity to be authorized.
The specific activities under this component are as follows: hill dams (retenues collinaires) (where the
height of the dam does not exceed 15 meters); water points; rehabilitation of springs; and shallow (30 -
50 m) and deep (50 - 100 m) wells.
-9-



A hill dam will be subject to several conditions for the associated investments to be authorized by the
Bank:
a   Compliance with safeguards related to safety of dams (OP4.37) where necessary;
o   Prior environmental impact studies; and
o Prior establishment and training of water users associations (WUA).
Depending on the scale of the operation, WUA would also be required for deep wells.
Complementary water saving irrigation equipment, such as drip irrigation systems, will be financed under
the ongoing PNDAR/FNRDA activities.
Component 4: Support for the Central Project Management Unit (Cellule Centrale de Gestion du
Projet - CCGP) and Wilaya Coordination and Management Units (Cellules de Coordination et de
Gestion de Wilaya - CCGW) (Total Cost US$ 4.6 million; US$ 3.2 million Bank financing)
This component covers diverse activities such as training for DGF staff, required studies, consultant
services for M&E, and equipment and vehicles for the project management and implementation structure.
The two important elements of this component are the training in participatory approaches for project
staff and the independent M&E. These two activities are recent innovations for the DGF which are also
having wider effect in other MADR projects.
Specific activities will entail the following: (i) training activities such as participatory approaches, with
a special perspective on gender-specific issues pertaining to women, targeting both male and female DGF
staff; project management; information technology (IT), technical forestry subjects, etc.; (ii) studies such
as the baseline survey, technical and environmental studies for water resource mobilization and rural road
activities and marketing and socioeconomic impact; Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) which will be
carried out by independent consultants in a manner complementary to project implementation; and (iii)
equipment comprising computers; office equipment, and vehicles.
Component 5: Institutional Development for the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(MADR) (Total Cost US$ 4.5 million; US$ 3.5 million Bank financing)
During sectoral strategy discussions in the context of the new CAS and during project preparation,
complementarities between some of the PNDAR and the two Rural Employment Projects objectives and
instruments were noted in areas such as production diversification, protection of natural resources and
water resource mobilization. Hence, a broader Institutional Development component for MADR was
developed, targeting both the broader areas of policy design and implementation and M&E of
development programs, and the specific context of the project area. For the project area, the focus would
be on the cornplementarities between wilaya (govemorate) level agencies, namely, the CDF, the DSA,
and the Wilaya Water Directorates (Directions Hydrauliques de Wilaya - DHW), providing them with
adequate training and/or equipment to ensure effective support to the collaborative project efforts in
areas such as extension, facilitation of credit applications, etc. On the general focus of the Institutional
Development component, a significant part of the resources would be allocated to training programs
targeting the decentralized administration. This training would facilitate capacity development in
implementing market-oriented rural development programs, giving authority and responsibility to
regional and wilaya staff through diverse tools such as participatory approaches.
- 10 -



The Institutional Development activities for MADR comprise the following: training for the central and
decentralized administration on rural development strategies; impact assessment of development policies
and policy analysis instruments; M&E instruments and methods, and pilot integrated rural development
projects for training purposes. The Institutional Development activities will also incorporate
gender-specific matters focusing on women and targeting both male and female staff.
,Indicative           Bank-      % of
Component                       Costs     %,of     financing  Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)    financing
Erosion control measures                            50.17      35.1      40.14      42.3
Agricultural development                            66.72      46.7      34.44      36.3
Water resource mobilization                          15.51      10.9     12.40      13.1
Support for the CCGP and CCGW                        4.61        3.2      3.16       3.3
Institutional Development for MADR                   4.47        3.1      3.45       3.6
Unallocated                                           0.46       0.3      0.46       0.5
Total Project Costs  141.94   99.3      94.05      99.0
Front-end fee   0.95       0.7      0.95        1.0
Total Financing Required  142.89     100.0     95.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
There are no foreseen policy issues that would need to be addressed in the context of the present project.
As indicated above, the policy dialogue for the agricultural sector will be carried out in the context of the
preparation the CAS, as well as the Agricultural Sector Strategy Note planned for FY03. The Institutional
Development component for MADR will be a critical instrument and serve as a basis for the sectoral
policy dialogue by providing specific studies on strategic and policy issues.
The following actions concerning institutional and implementation matters have been adopted in the case
of the ongoing Rural Employment Project (Loan 4143-AL) and have also been agreed upon with the
Borrower for the proposed Project.
*   Investments in hill dams will require prior engineering studies, including social and
environmental impact assessments and the creation of Water Users Associations (WUA) to
undertake O&M responsibilities.
*   Investments in rural roads will require prior engineering studies, including social and
environmental impact assessments.
*   Beneficiaries will contribute a certain part towards the costs of on farrn-investments through
labor or means of production, at the rate of 50 percent of labor costs for planting fruit trees and
grapevines and 30 percent of the labor costs for destoning.
*   There will be no force account implementation. Procurement of goods, works and services will
be based on competitive procedures in which both private and public enterprises can participate.
*   Monitoring and Evaluation will be undertaken by independent consultants, based on TOR to be
agreed upon at negotiations.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is expected to generate significant economic, social, environmental and institutional benefits.
These benefits would accrue at the national, regional and local levels.
Economic benefits. Benefits generated would be in the form of: (i) increased rural employment, about
- 11 -



36 thousand person-years of direct employment and a significant amount of indirect employment; (ii)
diversified and increased agricultural production; (iii) higher incomes and asset values for poor rural
households; and (iv) higher levels of private sector activity. Other economic benefits would arise from
the improved infrastructure which would increase local community access to basic social services.
Although more difficult to quantify, economic benefits will also arise from the protection of agricultural
land and other natural resources through the implementation of soil and water conservation activities.
Social benefits. The project aims to create an enabling environment conducive to participatory, inclusive
and gender-balanced development, an outcome which is primarily social in nature. Social benefits will
accrue at the individual and community level. At the individual level, benefits will accrue from
beneficiary participation in project investments. Social benefits will accrue to community groups from
improved basic infrastructure and social services. In addition, local community participation will improve
the communication between the Administration and the population which should result in improved
targeting and higher degree of integration of all sectors of the population, including women, into the
social and economic life of the communities. Furthermore, local community participation will result in
more pertinent interventions and more appropriate methods in the design of development programs,
increasing the impact and efficiency of public expenditures. This approach will also increase local
community ownership of interventions, leading to sustainability of investments made.
Environmental benefits. A large part of the project activities are targeted to reducing soil erosion and
improving natural resource management. The use of improved and sustainable techniques in agricultural
production, natural resource and forestry management will significantly improve the status of these
scarce resources in a zone where degradation is a serious problem. The environmental benefits go beyond
the immediate intervention zone as the effects also accrue to adjacent areas as well as downstream of
watersheds treated. As such, environmental benefits from the project are expected to be significant.
Institutional benefits.
DGF. Institutional benefits will accrue at the national, regional and local levels. At the national level,
benefits will accrue from the institutional strengthening activities, such as training which should
contribute to improved planning, implementation and M&E competence in DGF. With some adaptation,
positive lessons learnt from the present and the previous Rural Employment Projects can also be
replicated nationally, as the ongoing project has already inspired and served as a model for part of the
programs under the PNDAR. The improved efficiency in the implementing agencies resulting from the
institutional strengthening activities should translate to cost effectiveness in the project executing
agencies, and hence in improved development impact. At the regional and local levels, benefits will
accrue to the decentralized implementing offices through their participation in training and capacity
building measures. These activities target the three principal wilaya level agencies which will have a role
in the project: the CDF, DSA and DHW. Essentially, the process entails a transition from centralized
implementation to one where the central administration focuses on strategic development, policy analysis
and M&E, while actual implementation is decentralized to wilaya level administration and below. In this
context, the regional and local levels will benefit from capacity building activities targeted to increase
decentralized implementation efficiency, a key prerequisite to increasing local community participation.
Another important benefit at the regional and local level will be the skills gained in the development and
use of participatory approaches to improve the potential for sustainability in investments made.
Additional benefits at the local level will accrue in the context of private sector development (PSD) as
private SME participate in the implementation of project activities.
Institutional Development for MADR. There are close linkages between the PNDAR and the proposed
- 12 -



and ongoing Rural Employment Projects, and the PNDAR is an integral part of the PSRE. The proposed
Rural Employment Project will play a critical role in the implementation modalities of the Govermment
programs in agricultural and rural development, namely the PDAR being prepared with a mise en valeur
en proximite perspective. As a consequence, in the context of the sectoral strategy and the CAS
dialogues, meetings have taken place to identify issues and constraints in rural development. Based on
this continuing dialogue, a Institutional Development program was developed for MADR (cf. Project
Files). The benefits of the Institutional Development program will arise on the national scale and will
entail: (i) improved strategy design and policy analysis based on sound information at the level of the
central administration; (ii) improved M&E of the impact of the development programs and policies; and
(iii) improved implementation capacity at the regional and local levels through focused training
programs.
Target Groups
The target group is the population in specific communes in the mountainous areas of the wilayate of
Tiaret, Tissemsilt, Chlef, Ain Defla, Medea and Bouira. The population in these communes is 1.2
million, in 92,000 households. The project zones extend eastward from the ongoing Rural Employment
Project (Loan 4143-AL) in Northwest Algeria towards the north-center of the country and cover 1.4
million ha. Specifically, the project zones are: (i) Zone 1: Monts de Gargar and Monts de Frenda
(watershed of the Mina river) in the wilaya of Tiaret and Monts de l'Ouarsenis Sud in the wilaya of
Tissemsilt; (ii) Zone 2: Monts de Dahra and Monts de l'Ouarsenis occidental in the wilaya of Chlef and
Monts de l'Ouarsenis Nord in the wilaya of Ain Defla; (iii) Zone 3: Monts du Titteri occidental and
Monts du Sersou in the wilaya of Medea and Monts du Titteri oriental in the wilaya of Bouira.
The project targets rural areas which have a high incidence of poverty. The project zone is
charactenzed by mountainous isolated areas with sloped, vulnerable lands, with high degree of erosion
due to the severe droughts, under-exploited water resources and the over-exploited natural resources. The
degree of vulnerability of the local populations is high as a consequence of their isolation and
remoteness, lack of access to sustainable economic opportunities, lack of access to social services, and
the current conjuncture.
Tie social analysis undertaken during project preparation has identified the following vulnerable
groups:
* Agro-pastoralistfarmers with a low asset base include owners of small landholdings, owners of
land under joint property rights (indivision), tenants on marginal lands, and small landholders
without official deeds of their property. These farmers behave in a risk averse manner, which is
reflected in the cultivation of traditional crops with low market risks (e.g., subsidized cereals or
barley as feed) and livestock production.
* Rural landless are unskilled workers who do not have access to land and who depend on
seasonal demand for labor in agriculture and in rural informal, small-scale industries and services.
The landless rural workers are vulnerable to fluctuations in the demand for labor, wage rates, and
food prices.
* Agro-pastoralistfamilies who have been displaced due to difficult conditions, which have
resulted in an exodus in search of better living conditions in other douars (villages) of the project
areas.
* Young unemployed with low educational status, who suffer from high income instability due to
their reliance on casual labor contracts and often have no choice but to abandon rural areas and move
towards urban areas.
- 13 -



o Women from low-income households. Within this category, three main groups of women seem
to be particularly vulnerable: women-headed households, particularly widows (women-headed
households tend to be smaller than male-headed households, and thus, possess less available labor for
farm work.); married women, whose ascribed gender role of food and care providers combined with
demands for family labor in the farn household economy results in heavy workloads and severe time
constraints; and, young girls whose low educational status restrains their access to labor market
opportunities.
For the institutional development activities, MADR and DGF staff, as well as the beneficiaries are
targeted, focusing on participatory approaches and an improved performance of the MADR structure,
particularly at the decentralized levels.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Five and a half years (last six months for ex post assessment).
Executing agency: General Directorate of Forestry (DGF) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development (MADR) for the first four components (Erosion Control; Agricultural Development; Water
Resource Mobilization; and Support for the CCGP and CCGW) and the Directorate of Investment
Programming and Economic Studies (DPIEE) of the MADR for the fifth component (Institutional
Development for the MADR).
The project will use the same implementation design as the ongoing Rural Employment Project (Loan
4143-AL), with minor modifications. The staff of the CDF in charge of implementing the ongoing project
met with the staff of the CDF in the proposed project and discussed organizational issues, among others,
in the context of lessons leamt. In addition, the Conservateurs of the proposed project have had a field
visit to observe implementation of the ongoing project in September 2002.
This implementation design maintains the basis of the decentralized DGF structure, which devolves
responsibility for day-to-day management of project activities to local levels of the wilaya level
organization:
o Central level. A central project management unit (CCGP) within the DGF would be responsible
for overall project coordination and administration, including project accounting and
disbursement; management of the project special account; and ensuring timely audits and M&E
(see below). It would also be the principal interlocutor of the Bank on procurement matters,
periodic progress reporting, etc., in accordance with procedures agreed upon at appraisal and
integrated into the PIM, similar to those used in the ongoing Rural Employment Project. CCGP
staff will entail a multidisciplinary team comprising a project manager (Chef de Projet), a
forester/agronomist (to be nominated), an economist, a sociologist and an accountant responsible
for procurement and financial management. There will be close coordination with the Project
Management Unit (CGP) of the ongoing Rural Employment Project.
o   Regional level. The DGF's Directorates (CDF) in each wilaya will be responsible for project
implementation, which will be coordinated by a wilaya level project management unit (CCGW)
under the responsibility of the Director (Conservateur) and headed by a unit chief (Chef de
Cellule). The CCGW will have technical expertise, staff responsible for procurement and
financial management, staff in charge of the integration of rural women in project activities and
office staff. Specifically, CCGW will execute the annual programs and coordinate project actions
in the respective wilayate at the level of the perimeter (see next point); manage the human,
financial and material resources at the wilaya level, including procurement for works; and
- 14 -



coordinate the M&E of project performance at the wilaya level, through supervising each
perimeter. The CCGW will be responsible for liaison with the DGF hierarchy as well as public
and private agencies or organizations (Chambers of Agriculture, NGO, cooperatives, Directorates
of Agncultural Services - DSA, Directorates of Water Resources-DHW, extension agents, etc.).
*   Communal level. Groups of 6-12 contiguous communes in the project area will be organized into
Penmeters (Perimetres) under a Chef de Primetre. The Perimeter will be the basic unit for
project implementation and interface with the communities, with support from the CCGW staff.
The Perimeter will be responsible for the physical monitoring of project activities as well as the
linkages with the communities. The Perimeter staff will comprise the technical DGF staff at the
circonscription (commune) level.
*   For the Institutional Development component for MADR, the implementing agency will be the
Directorate of Investment Programming and Economic Studies (DPIEE) of the MADR. However,
to facilitate processes and take advantage of the experience of the DGF, procurement will be
managed by the DGF, while DPIEE, through the services of a consultant, will be in charge of
developing the TOR for the various institutional development activities under the component and
supervise and coordinate the products.
At the perimeter level, commune level DGF field staff will work directly with beneficiaries at the grass
roots douar level, using participatory approaches in implementing the project. This process will enhance
bottom-up flows that will affect project activities. In order to ensure that the project reaches out the
intended beneficiaries, specific targeting criteria have been incorporated in the project design (See Annex
11 on Social Assessment). The use of a double approach to beneficiary targeting (self-targeting
mechanisms and direct targeting by the DGF staff) will allow vulnerable groups to be the main
beneficiaries of project interventions. All DGF field agents who will be involved in project
implementation will receive training on participatory and gender-sensitive approaches that will help them
build effective partnerships with the project beneficiaries.
Within the above decentralized management framework, project activities would be executed mainly by
local private and public enterprises through competitive processes. Force account will not be used.
Maintenance of investments on private lands will be the responsibility of the beneficiaries themselves.
For certain water resource mobilization activities, water users associations (WUA) will be established to
manage and maintain the water infrastructures through a cahier de charges.
The Project organization descnbed above is in place, with all but a few staff remaining to be nominated.
Some of these staff have already benefited from ongoing training in participatory approaches and project
management. They have also been actively involved in project preparation activities. One area which
needs to be improved upon is the identification, recruitment and maintaining of effective female staff
who will be the main counterparts of women beneficiaries. The inherent difficulties reflect partly the
social and cultural context and are expected to be resolved gradually during project implementation.
Project organization will reinforced with diverse training activities for project management, M&E,
gender issues, participatory approaches, technical training, IT training, etc., and be equipped with
vehicles and office equipment.
The responsibility for the financial management of the project for the first four components of PER2 will
be with the DGF, and for the fifth component will be with the DPIEE. The financial management system
at the implementing agencies is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework
applicable to the public sector which follow strict enforcement procedures through formal stages of
expenditure (commitment, service delivery, payment order, and payment). The financial management
system, which is summarized in Annex 6b and detailed in the PIM, is adequate and meet the minimum
- 15 -



accounting and reporting requirements of the Bank for accounting and reporting. Both the DGF and each
of the six CDF will incur project expenditures, and approve payments following the budget execution
processes that are in line with the prevailing laws and regulations in Algeria. The Banque Alg&rienne de
Developpement (BAD) and its regional offices acting both as the financial controller (Contr6leur
financier) and the public treasurer (Tresorerie Publique) will be responsible for control of expenditure
and making payments. On a centralized basis, at the DGF, the CCGP will be responsible for accounting,
record-keeping and reporting functions. The CCGP will undertake all the required administrative
functions relating to the budget at the central level at the DGF. In this connection, the CCGP's financial
management functions will be integrated with the already existing structures at the DGF. CGP will
consolidate financial records from the CDF as part of its coordination function. At the decentralized
level, in each of the six CDF, the Coordinators will keep the accounting and financial recording of the
transactions on a contract-accounting basis similar to the one that is already in use for the ongoing PERI.
With respect to fifth component which will be managed on a centralized basis, the CCGP will perform
the same functions for the DPIEE.
The CCGP will also be responsible for the preparation of the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMR) and the annual Project Financial Statements (PFS). The content and format of the FMR have
been discussed and agreed upon with the Borrower and this will be documented during
negotiations. The PFS will be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Project organization charts and job descriptions for different levels of project management are available
in Project Files.
D. Project RationaDe
11. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Unemployment and poverty continue to be a crisis in rural areas. The ongoing Rural Employment Project
(Loan 4143-AL) has demonstrated the effectiveness of a flexible decentralized participatory development
approach in addressing this crisis and has created 23,500 person years of employment in less than five
years of implementation. It has also addressed diverse issues of soil erosion, asset creation and private
sector development directly and indirectly. Hence, the same project modalities were chosen to continue
to benefit from the experience gained.
In developing design alternatives, the option of establishing of a Social Fund could have been considered.
This approach has worked well in other countries, and was also effective under the First Social Safety
Net Project (Loan 4006-AL), with an extra-budgetary financial system. However, this structure has met
with administrative difficulties. The proposed Second Rural Employment Project would thus rely on
conventional delivery mechanisms, as is the case under the ongoing first Rural Employment Project.
The proposed project also offers an alternative to classical support mechanisms targeting the poor areas
in Algeria. This has been guaranteed minimum cereal prices by the Government, without any
differentiation by region, agro-ecological zone, or farm size. While this policy would have provided
incentives in high potential cereal areas, in the low rainfall and low potential areas, it essentially served
as a social transfer mechanism. Furthermore, by encouraging area expansion in good rainfall years, it had
the adverse effect of opportunistic cereal cultivation in vulnerable marginal areas of pastures, steppes and
sloped mountainous zones. For the mountainous areas, the project supports asset creation, namely
planting perennial fruit trees and grapevines for product diversification and to increase income flows as
an instrument to address poverty and unemployment issues.
- 16 -



Finally, even though unemployment issues are prevalent over the country, it was decided to maintain a
regional approach in order not to diffuse effort and resources over wide and discrete areas. Hence, the
Project focuses on a relatively contiguous area in north-central Algeria, neighboring the areas of the
ongoing project, allolwing this proximity to create synergy and the possibility to share experiences.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
The Project aimed mainly to promote  Research and Extension      S             S
improved natural resource        Loan 3216-AL
management through research and
extension. It was restructured to take
into account the problems faced in the
research component. The extension
component made marginal progress.
(Closed: 12/31197)
The Project supported, among other  Sahara Development           U            U
objectives, natural resource     Ln. 3405-AL
management and protection of the
fragile resources in the south of
Algeria. The Project met its
development objectives only partially.
(Closed: 06/30/98)
The Project served the objective of  Forestry and Pilot Watershed  U           S
natural resource management and the  Management
protection of the environment. The  Loan 3487-AL
watershed component faced problems
due to preconditions related to training
in participatory approaches. With some
restructuring, the project met some of
its objectives. (Closed: 12/31/98)
The Project aimed to generate    Social Safety Net               S             S
employment and improve           Loan 4006-AL
infrastructure in a disadvantaged areas.
Although the loan was not fully
disbursed, the number of jobs created
under the labor-intensive public works
exceeded projections (24,500
person-years of employment created as
opposed to a target of 20,000
person-years.). Closed: 03/31/01)
- 17 -



The Project aims to assist the   Low Income Housing               S            S
Government of Algeria to improve  Loan 4361 -AL
living and housing conditions. It has
environmental and social policy
components that are in urban slums
and low-income areas with high
incidence of poverty.
The project objective is to assist the  Industrial Pollution Control  S        S
government of Algeria in reducing  Loan 4034-AL
pollution, which causes ecological
degradation. It initiates a program in
the industrial sector of Annaba for
mitigating the adverse environmental
and health effects of pollution.
The Project intends to generate rural  Rural Employment           S             S
employment in poor areas of northwest Loan 4143-AL
Algeria, using the instruments of
natural resource management. It
emphasizes asset creation with the
purpose of increasing labor
productivity in a sustainable manner.
Other development agencies
This is a Project that has taken place in Oued Mellegue (IFAD)
the East of Algeria. While there was
progress on the ground, there were
disbursement delays due to procedural
reasons. (Closed.)
The project focuses on the watershed  River Safsaf Watershed
of the Zardesas Dam and has become  Management Project in the
effective on February 18, 2003.  Mountainous Zones of Skikda.
(IFAD)
The project is being prepared and has  Integrated Watershed
been identified in September 2002.  Management in Msila (IFAD)
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The ongoing Rural Employment Project (Loan 4143-AL) has produced considerable experience, both
positive and negative, from which important lessons can be derived. These experiences are being
assessed in a systematic manner by the Borrower, through the services of the independent consultants in
charge of M&E and have been utilized during project preparation. Conceptually, Bank experience with
rural development projects using participatory approaches, such as the North-West Forestry Development
projects in Tunisia, have also borne evidence and provided guidance on project design matters with
respect to technical and social issues. Some of the lessons derived are summarized below:
- 18 -



Institutional
*  Decentralized and flexible project implementation increases ownership among
implementation staff. Participatory approaches improve communication between
administration staff and the close and open dialogue between the administration and the
communities lead to increased trust, confidence and effective results. The use of these dynamic
methods has caused a profound change in mentality at both the central and decentralized levels
of the DGF. As a result, PER2 staff in the six wilayate were actively involved in the preliminary
survey that was carried out and were able to see the benefits of working closely with
communities. Training is planned under PER2 for such methods.
*  It is important to have a motivated and efficient banking system to facilitate smooth
procurement and disbursement. Project implementation experienced delays resulting from slow
transfer of funds and payments to the executing umts, which was compounded at the level of the
local offices of the Banque Algerienne de Developpement (BAD). As a mitigating measure, the
ongoing project shifted to a direct credit de paiement (CP) system which will also be used in the
proposed project.
Project design
*  Flexibility must be built into project design, particularly when implementing a project in areas
where there are problems due to the current conjuncture. A flexible design allowed the
implementing agency and the Bank to adjust the implementation program without causing
serious delays. Flexibility also allows the inclusion of changing perspectives of the beneficiary
communities.
*  Impact on poverty reduction and implications for targeting. The project requirement of
beneficiary contribution to costs through labor input has proven to be an effective self-targeting
mechanism. Poor farmers are willing to offer family labor as part of investments in productive
assets financed by the project. Yet, in some cases, owners of medium-size holdings also
benefited from the project. In order to ensure that the typical profile of project beneficiaries
remains the rural poor, a two-pronged approach to beneficiary targeting will be used, combining
self-targeting mechanisms with direct targeting by the DGF field staff based on direct
observations on beneficiaries' assets and livelihood strategies.
  In rural areas in the project zones, in communes, douar, villages, etc., there are uncultivated and
marginal lands in the public domain (i.e., state property) that are defacto used as commons for
grazing. As such, they provide meager nutrition for livestock and over-exploitation leads to the
adverse environmental consequence of soil erosion. The project aims to design actions to revive
these areas under the soil erosion control component through the use of an appropriate mix of
plant material comprising forestry and forage species (trees and bushes) for both long term and
short term perspectives for forage provision and soil stabilization. This will be done through
Pastoral Management Plans (PAP - Plans d 'Amenagement Pastoral), which is a participatory
tool successfully used in the ongoing PER1, whereby riparians are surveyed to assess
characteristics and preferences, are involved in the choice of methods and species and assume
responsibility in managing the plantations with respect to rotation and intensity of use. The PAP
will be supported by appropriate extension activities in technical areas.
*  Project design will also encourage effective private sector participation in project
implementation. In the ongoing PERI, critical thresholds for prior review were kept low to
encourage the use of small procurement lots, which allowed SME with limited means to
participate competitively for works. In addition, force account was categorically excluded. Thus,
- 19 -



today, nearly two thirds of the financial volume of works implementation is by the SME
generating an impact in PSD. Private sector participation increases implementation efficiency.
The elimination of force account implementation and the use of competitive procedures have
resulted in improved activity designs and reduced unit costs.
O  In contrast, SME participation in forestry activities was limited. Technical specifications for
forestry related activities were more rigid and in some cases, forestry areas faced problems due to
the conjuncture. These implicit and explicit risks precluded SME participation in forestry
activities. As such, these activities have remained in the domain of public enterprises, which
have exhibited a varied performance, generally more problematic on average than the private
sector. The situation has since improved and SME are expected to participate in forestry
activities.
o  To increase competitiveness and SME participation in forestry plantation activities in a country
where the public sector dominates the production of seedlings, it is necessary to separate the
production of seedlings from the planting and maintenance processes. Thus, in the proposed
project, plants will be independently produced under competitive contracts for the DGF and will
be provided to firms for planting.
o  Procurement processes with SME do pose some problems. One issue during project
implementation arose with firms which successfully bid for several lots. Some of these decide
subsequently to withdraw because they do not have adequate capacity to undertake all the bids
they have won. This causes implementation delays as the procurement process has to be
extended. As a mitigating measure, DGF is compiling a register of accredited firms to minimize
such disruptions, which in itself is considered counterproductive (see Annex 6.A). Such
accreditation is not acceptable to the Bank. Instead, objective eligibility criteria will be
incorporated in bidding documents to ensure that firms with adequate capacity, means and
technical staff participate in procurement activities.
o  Early on in the implementation of the ongoing Rural Employment Project, delays were observed
at the decentralized implementation of procurement at the wilaya level where the review and
clearance processes have affected the time bound biological activities. These problems have been
resolved and procurement takes place in a timely manner now. In addition, the Walis and
officials of the proposed project areas were sensitized to this concem and they provided their
assurances, emphasizing the priority nature of the project for the Government.
o  Environmental impact assessment. It is important to set aside adequate time to carry out the
EIA for specific activities (e.g., hill dams), as these studies can often take longer than
anticipated, causing implementation delays. The ongoing PERI suffered implementation delays
for various reasons linked to the preparation of such studies. To avoid a similar occurrence it has
been decided to start the preparation of these prerequisite studies as soon as the project is
effective.
o  Integrating women in project activities. Women's activities must be included as an integral
part of project activities to increase their potential benefits. Given the circumstances in 1996,
when the ongoing Rural Employment Project was prepared, women were incorporated in a
marginal way and somewhat limited to a predetermined set of activities. Yet, the active role of
the female forestry agents in identifying and reaching women door-to-door was very effective
and recognized by the beneficiaries themselves. In the proposed project, through a more thorough
assessment of women's needs and priorities, women will be integrated into the project in a
fundamental manner.
o  In harsh climates, such as that in the project intervention zone, species must be selected so that
they are sufficiently adapted to target sites to improve survival, productivity and environmental
benefits envisaged from improved vegetative cover.
o  Preparatory activities for more bulky investments (e.g., engineering studies for rural roads and
- 20 -



hill dams) have been slow and have caused implementation delays. The experience gained will
now allow for a more realistic procurement planning for these activities.
Monitoring and evaluation
*  The use of an independent M&E consultant is an effective approach as it leaves the
implementing agency sufficient time to attend to the day-to-day project implementation while the
consultant focuses on assessing impact, using specialists in diverse areas. The objective views of
the independent consultant provided a critical perspective on project progress in terms of the
successes to build upon as well as corrective measures for the problems identified.
*  The use of an independent local consultant firm has also been particularly important given the
difficult situation due to the conjuncture, which has limited Bank staff missions in the field.
Being independent of the implementing agency, the M&E consultant has provided the Bank with
an objective and detailed view of the situation in the field, even during very difficult times when
Bank missions could not visit the field. The limited field visits by Bank staff subsequently
confirmed the M&E consultant's observations. This modality will be applied again to the
proposed project, first due to the efficiency of the arrangement, and second due to the continuing
conjunctural situation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During the MENA RVP's visit to Algeria in October 2001, a Second Rural Employment Project was
signaled from the high levels of the Government to be one of the four high priority areas for Bank
assistance in the short-term. In the context of policy directives contained in the PSRE, under which
employment is a key focus, and the PNDAR which incorporates several instruments towards that end,
both MADR and the DGF have reconfirmed the priority of a second Rural Employment Project.
In this respect, DGF has honored its commitments for preparation agreed to in a Memorandum of
Understanding signed with the Bank in October 2001. These include TOR for preparation activities to be
financed under a proposed PHRD grant (TF050503) fro project preparation and the preparation of a
comprehensivefiche technique for the project. DGF is successfully managing the implementation of the
preparation activities financed by the PHRD grant. DGF has also efficiently used the participatory
approach capacity created under the ongoing project in the preparation of the proposed project.
The Government's commitment to the proposed second Rural Employment Project can also be observed
in its treatment of savings created under the ongoing project. Instead of canceling about $12 million of
savings which arose due to the devaluation of the DA and reduced costs due to competitive processes, the
Government proposed a three year Supplementary Program for the two neighboring wilayate of Relizane
and Mostaganem, with the same development objectives and instruments as the Rural Employment
Project. The ongoing Rural Employment Project was restructured to accommodate this Supplementary
Program.
Following a sectoral workshop held in April 2002 in the context of CAS preparation, the need for
institutional and capacity development of MADR was identified for more effective and efficient
implementation of development programs and for M&E. A Government proposal to add a component to
the proposed Second Rural Employment Project was favorably viewed by the Bank. This has led to the
fifth component on TA for the MADR. Finally, the program of the new Govemment appointed after the
elections of May 2002 has reaffirmed the priority of agricultural and rural development, focusing on
employment, sustainable development and preservation of natural resources. One particular development
was the establishment of State Minister (Ministre Delegue) post for Rural Development in the Ministry
- 21 -



of Agriculture, which was renamed Ministry of Agnculture and Rural Development (MADR).
As indicated above in the section on Government Strategy, a new Agricultural and Rural Development
Program (PADR) is being developed in the spirit of the Rural Employment Project with a "mise en valeur
en proximite" perspective, implicating the decentralized administration of other ministries in the wilayate
as well. In this respect, several inter-ministerial decisions have already been signed.
The Government's commitment is also evident in the following principles it has adopted under the
ongoing project to enhance the sustainability of project interventions:
o  labor-intensive approaches used in rural projects instead of over capital intensive ones;
o  move towards small-scale operations rather than the large scale grands chantiers approach;
o  local populations involved in different stages of projects, instead of centralized, top-down
approaches;
o  emphasis on improving project implementation capacity and local participation; and
o  use of independent consultants for monitoring project performance to facilitate rapid resolution
of constraints and problems.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The contributions of the Bank stem from the international experience gained in employment and social
safety net type projects. This experience was influential in changing the policy perspectives in the
MADR and DGF from relatively more capital-intensive towards small-scale, labor-intensive options.
Again based on its international experience, the Bank has been able to cast the seeds of participatory
approaches, limited and gradual as they may have been initially. This has been a major improvement over
traditional top-down approaches. DGF has also found the technical, environmental, economic and social
perspectives that the Bank has introduced to be effective, even if they were cumbersome to implement
initially. This has now increased the rigor of the activities that DGF designs and implements. The Bank's
emphasis on decentralized implementation and in the project design has encouraged and reinforced the
decentralization of the DGF with activities that complement technical capacity with project management.
Finally, the institutional development component targeting MADR will also benefit from Bank
experience in policy analysis, M&E and participatory development.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$140.9 million; ERR = 23.56 % (see Annex 4)
K) Cost effectiveness
(T Other (specify)
Part of the project activities, such as establishment of fruit trees, grape wines, irrigation, etc., are
subjected to standard cost-benefit analysis (ERR and NPV). Employment creating activities are assessed
in terms of cost effectiveness. However, some activities with principally an environmental or capacity
development focus, are not conducive to routine economic analysis due to the difficulties in valuing the
effects and externalities they create.
Project benefits, to the extent they can be quantified in monetary terms and included in the cost benefit
analysis, are as follows: (i) for the erosion control component, increased water accumulation in
downstream dams due to reduced siltation, and modest wood production; (ii) for the agricultural
component, increased production of tree fruits and grapes; and (iii) for water resource mobilization (hill
- 22 -



ponds), increased irrigated production. These three components account for a large part of total project
costs, and are also expected to yield significant environmental benefits - in terms of improved land
quality, reduced erosion, reduced runoff and increased recharge - that can not be taken into account in
the NPV and ERR calculations.
In addition to a 10 percent discount rate, the key assumptions underpinning the cost-benefit analysis are:
(i) an economic value of labor equivalent to 30 percent of its financial value (as in the ongoing Rural
Employment Project) given the prevalence of high levels of unemployment in the project area; and (ii) an
economic value of water equal to 150 percent of its financial value, to reflect the current subsidized water
tariffs.
Based on this framework, the project is economically sound, with a NPV of US$ 141 million equivalent
and an ERR of 23.6 percent.
PNDAR objectives and instruments have also been assessed for consistency and complementarity
between the PNDAR and the second Rural Employment Project. The need for close coordination
between the CDF, DSA and the DHW in technical areas, particularly as they pertain to water resource
mobilization, has led to capacity development and equipment being provided to DSA in addition to the
CDF in the project zones. Under instructions issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development and in the context of interministerial decisions, DHW involvement in matters such as water
resource inventories, exploratory studies, etc., will be arranged at the local level through the offices of
the Walis.
A key assumption in the economic analysis is that conjunctural conditions in the country and the region
would be conducive to the effective implementation of the Project. Given that this factor would likely
have much more of an impact on expected outcomes than the project-specific assumptions and risks, but
is not amenable to quantification, a formal risk and sensitivity analysis is not meaningful.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 49.5 mnillion; FRR = 13.39 % (see Annex 4)
The financial assessment is based on the financial cost of project inputs and outputs to estimate NPV and
FRR, using a 10 percent discount rate. The project will be implemented through competitive procurement
procedures, based on market conditions. Under these circumstances, firms are required to pay market
wages, on which there is a floor determined by minimum wage legislation, which cannot be avoided.
Experience indicates that for a wide variety of contracts under the first Rural Employment Project, wages
gravitated to the mmnimum wage, except for some skilled tasks. In addition to the wages, there are social
charges and taxes (essentially transfers) of 38.5 percent which increase labor costs further. Hence, due to
the much higher financial wage, financial NPV and FRR are lower at US$ 50 million and 13.4 percent
respectively. Another factor in the low FRR and financial NPV are the large components 4 and 5 for
DGF capacity development and MADR institutional development respectively.
At the level of individual farmers, the profitability of various investment activities are expected to be
more attractive than would be indicated by the overall project FRR (e.g., destoning, which is equivalent
to creation of new or more productive cultivable land, and fruit trees).
Fiscal Inpact:
The fiscal impact of the project is based on three factors: (i) the part of increased fruit production that
will be marketed through official channels, assumed to be around 25 percent of the total, will increase tax
- 23 -



receipts by about US$6.3 million; (ii) as fruit tree production increases on cereal lands, cereal (wheat)
production will decrease and government subsidies for cereals will thus also decrease. As not all the
wheat produced is marketed, only 50 percent of the estimated decrease in wheat production is considered
to have an impact on subsidies. This is equivalent to an NPV of around US$ 6 million (decrease); (iii)
finally, the difference between the financial and economic price of water is considered to be an implicit
subsidy, with a NPV of around US$ 3 million. Thus, on balance, the project will have a potential fiscal
impact with a NPV of around US$ 9.3 equivalent.
3. Technical:
The technical design uses essentially labor-intensive natural resource management and environmental
interventions as the basic instruments to achieve the project objective of employment creation. From a
technical point of view, the choice and design of the project activities take into account the key limiting
factors in the project zone, namely, water availability; the harsh, rugged and generally sloping terrain
with a degraded natural resource base, mainly due to soil erosion; and the agro-climatic environment
characterized by recurrent droughts. In addition, the technical options in the proposed project have
adapted techniques applied in the first Rural Employment Project, in due consideration of the specific
natural and social characteristics of the proposed project zones. Specifically, the technical design is based
on: (i) the national resource management and development strategy of the MOA/DGF as part of the
PNDAR targeting mountainous areas; (ii) the existing technical experience and lessons learned in Algeria
and in neighboring countries; (iii) the effectiveness of the environmental protection techniques; and (iv)
the social acceptability and potential economic returns (income generation, sustainable production
improvement, etc.) of the proposed technical instruments. The basic approach for improved land
management on cultivated lands is to diversify production currently based on annual crops (essentially
monoculture of cereals, mainly barley) on vulnerable sloping areas with perennial crops through a
gradual process, using fruit and wood trees which provide better protection for the soil. Emphasis is also
being placed on matching ecosystems and species used to increase the commercial value of the products,
thereby increasing community ownership and sustainability.
4. Institutional:
The institutional and implementation arrangements, described in section C.4 above, have already been
successfully used under the ongoing Rural Employment Project. The regional (decentralized)
organization in the new Project has been assessed and necessary reinforcement measures (training,
equipment, etc.) have been incorporated into project design, with some of these activities taking place
during preparation. Centrally, DGF has the experience and the organization to manage the accounting,
financial reporting and auditing arrangements. Some issues in the organization of project data and
reporting are being addressed under the ongoing project and would be incorporated into the new Project.
As already noted, DGF has a decentralized structure with increased representation at the wilaya and
daira levels. Actual responsibility for project operations has devolved to these levels. Key nominations to
the decentralized project management structure have been made, which has allowed staff to participate in
project preparation activities at an early stage. An institutional development component is included in the
Project to reinforce the decentralization efforts of DGF with training and equipment.
4.1 Executing agencies:
See Section C.4.
4.2 Project management:
See Section C.4.
- 24 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
A CPAR is currently being prepared for Algeria. Overall, Algeria has thorough procurement regulations
and practices, largely in conformity with Bank guidelines. Currently, the main issues that procurement
faces in works and services are: (i) the reluctance of international firms to be involved in Algeria,
particularly in rural areas, due to conjunctural concerns (with some firms unable to obtain insurance for
activities in Algeria); and, (ii) in some cases, particularly for services, the limited capacity among the
national firms and consultants, which inevitably leads to consultation restreinte or single source
contracts. The problems of local SME capacity in bidding for works procurement has been mentioned
above in the section on lessons learnt. An ex post procurement review was carried out in April 2002 for
the ongoing Rural Employment Project to coincide with the pre-appraisal of the proposed Project
(May-June 2002) in order to identify and address actual and potential procurement issues. There are no
major issues and those issues that have been noted are discussed in Annex 6A.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Overall, the financial management arrangements for the PER2 are adequate and build on the experience
gained from the ongoing PERI for which financial information and audit reports were submitted to the
Bank within the prescribed periods. The Bank has not yet conducted a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment for Algeria and thus an assessment of the inherent risks in the management of public
finances cannot be made. However, based on the experience of the ongoing PER1, so far there have not
been any systemic issues adversely affecting the financial management in the executing agency. Also,
control risk is considered modest as there are strict public accounting rules with clear flow of funds
process through the BAD (acting as the public treasurer), in addition to its financial control function. To
avoid inconsistent implementation of the financial management aspects of the projects in the wilayate: (i)
procedures are developed and incorporated in a comprehensive Project Implementation Manual (PIM),
and (ii) continued synergy between the ongoing PER1 and the PER2 financial management staff is
strongly encouraged. Risk of lack of counterpart funds is considered negligible as this has never been an
issue in the ongoing PERI. The recent Administrative Regulation (AR) No. 21 (Instruction 21 of July 25,
2001) that is intended to ensure flexibility in the procedures for the availability funds of has not yet been
fully implemented and its impact will need to be assessed during project implementation. During project
supervision, regular reviews will be carried out to ensure: (i) consistent application of the PIM, (ii)
existence of regular cross fertilization of experiences between the financial staff of the ongoing PERI
and the PER2, and (iii) improved flexibility in the disbursement process with respect to the full
implementation of the AR 21.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Project activities are expected to result in positive environmental benefits and significant environmental
issues are not anticipated. The project area exhibits acute soil erosion and degradation. The project's
emphasis on measures that would result in controlled run-off, reduced soil erosion and increased ground
cover should contribute to alleviating this issue. However, possible environmental issues could stem from
activities such as the construction of hill dams and rural roads (upgrading and rehabilitation). For these
activities, specific EA activities will be carried out during implementation phase of the project. For the
regions covered by the project and extending over six wilayate (Tiaret, Tissemsilt, Chlef, Ain Defla,
Bouira and Medea) detailed reports describing the technical, environmental, social and economical
aspects of the projects have been prepared during the preparation phase. The environmental analyses
conducted for each project zone have provided the basis for a Regional Environmental Assessment
(REA) as the appropriate environmental assessment instrument in compliance with the guidelines set
- 25 -



forth in the relevant Bank's Operational Policy (OP 4.01). The REA has been disclosed in-country, in the
project areas as well as at DGF headquarters. Moreover, the project is participatory by design and
contains many features and tools that will ensure appropriate stakeholder participation. One of these tools
will be Pastoral Management Plans to respond to the needs of agro-pastoralists as well as to
environmental concerns by incorporating an appropriate balance of forage and forest plants in
reforestation type activities. The experience of Ras El Ma in Sidi Bel Abbes under the ongoing Rural
Employment Project, where similar issues are being addressed in a participatory manner through a
Pastoral Management Plan, will serve as a model. The potential issue of pesticide use as a result of
project activities has been addressed although it is considered not significant considering the cultural
patterns and practices in the project zones. Nevertheless, this aspect will be monitored appropriately
during the course of the project by DGF, CDF and DSA (Direction des Services Agricoles) with the
assistance of the National Plant Protection Institute (INPV - Institut National de la Protection des
Vegetaux).
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
A Regional Environmental Assessment (REA), including an Environmental Management Plan (EMP),
has been preparedfor the project zones as a whole, in which the activities to be funded by the project
have been described, including, inter alia, the potential risks, recommendations on mitigating measures,
implementation arrangements and monitoring indicators as appropriate. For rural roads and hill dams,
independent consultants or firms with adequate capacity will carry out activity specific EA during project
implementation. Implementation arrangements for the EMP designed as part of the REA will ensure that
the recommendations of these specific EA to be carried out during project implementation would be
included in bidding documents and contracts awarded. Where possible, activity specific EA would
incorporate social analysis to reduce the potential for implementation delays. The overall REA for the
project zones have been organized in multidisciplinary project preparation teams parallel with the social
assessments and as such has included the participation of a representative sample of farmers, local
authorities and other stakeholders identified. Appropriate cost allocation has been included in the project
financing plan in order to implement the mitigating and monitoring measures.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: October 2002
The REA report has been prepared and finalized, based on project preparation reports, and is available in
Project Files. The client has provided a letter authorizmg disclosure through the Bank's Information
System (Infoshop) and informing the Bank on the disclosure process in-country. The final version of the
REA has been sent to the Infoshop on December 9, 2002 and disclosed through the Infoshop. In Algeria,
disclosure has been advertised in a national newspaper, providing access to the report at DGF
Headquarters and at the six CDF in the project wilayate.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During project preparation, multidisciplinary teams have undertaken social and environmental analysis in
a participatory manner, which entailed considerable preliminary consultation with stakeholders in
structured (questionnaires) and informal (focus group) formats. These project preparation activities
involved and were guided by an earlier Preliminary Survey (Sondage Preliminaire) which was also
carried out in a participatory perspective and also addressed environmental issues, particularly related to
soil erosion and water in the context of identifying priority project interventions. During project
- 26 -



implementation and as part of the screening procedures for project activities, stakeholders will be
consulted explicitly, particularly the potentially affected people. Moreover, the project is based on a
participatory approach that will ensure that stakeholders' voice is heard. Disclosure in Algeria will
include public access to the REA as well as discussion of related general and specific issues with
stakeholders, particularly the beneficiaries and/or the potentially affected people in the project zones.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The REA, in the Environmental Management Plan section, includes a detailed descnption of the
mitigation measures to be implemented during project implementation as well as capacity strengthening
activities to benefit the main implementing agency (Direction Generale des Forets). Supervision and
monitoring procedures will also be defined in an Operation Manual that will be part of the Project
Implementation Plan. Soil erosion rates would be monitored with data from field stations to be developed
in the project areas as part of M&E and modeling would be used to generalize and assess the effects of
biological and mechanical measures to reduce run-off. For the activities that will be identified, prepared
and assessed during project implementation (e.g., retenues collinaires), procedures have been defined
that will ensure proper environmental screening, specific EA preparation as required, implementation of
mitigation measures as well as appropriate supervision and monitoring based on realistic and practical
indicators. The relevant conclusions and recommendations of these activity-specific EA will be
incorporated into technical specifications of bidding documents and will become an integral part of the
works contracts. Although the project is not financing the acquisition of pesticides, its use in the orchards
and vineyards supported by the project will be monitored by the implementing agency and the
independent consulting firm that will be in charge of project M&E, in close coordination with the local
DSA and INPV.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Significant social issues and risks are not expected as the project will implement activities that are
expected to result in positive social benefits. Overall, based on the experience of the ongoing Rural
Employment Project, the social impact of the project would be expected to be positive in terms of
employment creation and income generation through asset creation. The project aims to create an
enabling environment conducive to participatory development through strengthening local capacity on
participatory approaches and identifying mechanisms to ensure the participation of project beneficiaries,
an outcome that is primarily social in nature. The core principles in the preparation and implementation
of the project are that: (i) beneficiaries in the communities, both male and female, and particularly from
vulnerable groups, have the opportunity to participate in the process of planning, implementation and
monitoring and evaluation of the project; and (ii) individuals and communities will not be adversely
affected by project interventions.
The main social issues highlighted in the social assessment summarized in Annex 11 include:
socioeconomic situation of the population in the project areas, characterized by a severe
degree of vulnerability and high income and gender-based inequality
*      presence of specific social groups particularly vulnerable to risks
*      the resilience and ingenuity of vulnerable groups to cope with risk, as illustrated by the wide
- 27 -



range of coping strategies
o      the role of social institutions and informal rules in coping with risk
o      the underlying causes of vulnerability and the limits to coping with risk
o      needs and priorities of the target groups, including women
o      perceptions of stakeholders about the project, and assessment of local institutional capacities
o      opportunities and constraints for effective gender integration and inclusion of vulnerable
groups.
Overall, the social impact of the project would be expected to be positive. The project aims at achieving
the following social development outcomes:
o      increasing access to productive assets and employment opportunities by vulnerable groups in
the project areas
o      reducing exposure of the target population to natural, economic and social risks
o      increasing the capabilities, at the individual and organizational level, of beneficiary
communities, SME and the DGF staff
o      bringing the administration closer to the target population and providing channels for
increased voice and participation of vulnerable groups
o      addressing gender disparities by promoting women's access to productive resources and
training and by improving their organizational capabilities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Social analysis in the context of project preparation has been an iterative and inclusive process. The
social assessment preparation process has provided a framework for dialogue on development priorities
in the project areas with key stakeholders: vulnerable groups, including women in the project areas,
central and local government officials and DGF staff.
Participatory processes have helped elicit the analytical insights and expectations of different
stakeholders, ensuring the legitimacy of the social assessment findings, building a sense of project
ownership and a project design that responds to the needs of the vulnerable groups in the project areas.
The direct involvement of the DGF field staff along with academics and local consultants in conducting a
participatory social analysis has helped has helped strengthen local institutional capacities on
participatory approaches and has built a sense of commitment towards the project social development
outcomes. The composition and terms of reference of project preparation teams have had a clear mandate
to integrate gender concerns in the overall project design.
The social analysis during project preparation has involved the following activities:
o Organizing an introductory workshop on participatory approaches for DGF field staff
o Conducting a preliminary field survey (sondage preliminaire), with the direct involvement of
DGF staff from the ongoing Rural Employment project and other forestry field staff who will be
involved in the current project
o Organizing a two-day information-sharing workshop to present the results of the preliminary
survey to the stakeholders concerned
o Conducting detailed social assessment studies for each of the project areas combining
quantitative and qualitative methodologies (household surveys, key-informant interviews,
focus-groups)
o Conducting complementary sociological appraisal in the context of field trips organized during
- 28 -



project pre-appraisal mission.
During project implementation, appropnate participatory mechanisms have been designed as part
of the project social analysis to ensure a continuous information flow and informed participation
of beneficiaries in project activities, with particular attention to gender concerns.
Project M&E will be designed as a participatory feedback process. Within this process, several social
impact monitoring exercises will be undertaken throughout project implementation, including a baseline
survey at the beginning of the project implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Due to the particular circumstances of NGO in Algeria, they are not considered to be directly involved in
the implementation of project activities. The social assessment has revealed the potential role of existing
associations in the project area and has identified appropriate consultation mechanisms with these
associations during project implementation.
One of the social development objectives of the project is to strengthen local organizational capabilities
of beneficiary groups based on common interest (water user associations; women's groups, etc).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional arrangements proposed by the project social analysis are:
*      a social inclusion and gender framework;
*      a participation plan; and
*      a M&E framework that incorporates social aspects and impact of the project.
Section C.4 and Annex 2 describe the organizational, staffing and capacity-building arrangements
proposed for project implementation, and their cost implications have been incorporated in the project
budget.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project design includes a M&E framework based on the experience of the ongoing Rural
Employment Project. The indicators to monitor performance will focus on: (i) social and gender impact;
(ii) effectiveness and quality of beneficiary participation; and (iii) compliance with relevant Bank
safeguard policies as they pertain to social issues. A baseline survey will be conducted at the outset of
project implementation.
In the context of project implementation, M&E will be carried out by independent consultants, as is the
case in the ongoing Rural Employment Project which has proven to be an effective approach. The
composition and of the M&E team will reflect multidisciplinary expertise and gender-balance that will be
necessary to assess social impact and achievement of social development outcomes. The flexible
approach to be followed during project implementation would allow, as is the case in the ongoing Rural
Employment Project, rapid reaction to problems and continuous assessment and readjustment.
M&E will entail a participatory feedback process whereby social impact monitoring exercises
undertaken on a regular basis during project implementation will elicit beneficiaries' perceptions of the
project's progress in providing equity of opportunity and participation to vulnerable groups. Information
disaggregated by gender will be generated, analyzed and incorporated in project implementation.
- 29 -



It should be noted that under local circumstances, the achievement of gender balance and participatory
development that the project intends to foster will be a gradual process. Hence, monitoring progress in
both areas will need to be measured through qualitative methodologies. Provisions will be made to train
project staff on participatory and gender-sensitive M&E.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect?
Policy                                    Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         () Yes (9 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 (9 Yes (9 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  ( Yes ( No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    U Yes (U No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                ()Yes ( No
Indigenous Peoples (0D 4.20)                                 ( )Yes ( No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                        ( Yes ( No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            () Yes U No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes ( No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      U Yes O No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Safeguard issues have been addressed in conformity with Bank policies under the ongoing Rural
Employment Project, and similar activities will be implemented under the proposed project. These
activities include environmental assessment for rural roads and retenues collinaires. If the dimensions or
other conditions related to a specific retenue collinaire deem it necessary, a panel of experts will be
employed to ensure compliance with Bank policies on the Safety of Dams (OP4.37).
The REA specifies that the recommendations of these activity specific EA, to be carried out during
project implementation, will be included in bidding documents and contracts awarded to ensure that they
are taken into consideration during works implementation and monitoring and evaluation. Moreover,
pesticides will not be procured as part of project activities, however the likelihood for pesticide use as a
result of the project has been assessed and found negligible due to the agricultural practices and the dry
agro-climatic conditions in the project zones. However, this issue will be monitored and the National
Plant Protection Institute (INPV) will be included in related follow up. The REA has been prepared in
parallel with the social assessment of this project and thus includes the participation, through preliminary
surveys, of a representative sample of farmers, local authorities and any other stakeholders concemed.
During project preparation, the new Bank policy on involuntary resettlement OP4.12 was presented and
discussed thoroughly with the Borrower. The Borrower was informed that adequate compliance with
OP4. 12 includes compensation to people losing land they have held under customary or traditional rights,
people utilizing common property resources, squatters residing on public lands, and encroachers deprived
of established access to resources. Given the incompatibilities between national regulations and the
OP4. 12 compensation requirements, and the inability of the DGF as an executing agency of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development to tackle national policy issues, the position of the DGF is to
exclude from the project any investment activity entailing displacement and/or resettlement as defined by
OP4. 12. Furthermore, the reform of the land tenure system and related legislation on compensation
processes are structural issues that fall outside the scope of an investment project and that can only be
addressed with a long-term land policy reform perspective. Management has also decided that the present
- 30 -



proposed project will not address policy issues. For the infrastructure activities under the proposed
project, the Borrower will identify sites that will not entail displacement or resettlement as per OP4.12.
The selection of these sites will be subject to specific environmental review. The screening criteria will
include an assessment of the status of the land, its present use, who owns it and who uses it. The activity
specific environmental assessments describing any safeguard-related issues will be prepared by the local
consultants and submitted to the Bank team for review and clearance.
During project implementation, adequate training on safeguard monitoring issues will be provided to the
DGF project team. Bank staff or consultants with appropriate background will be included as part of the
Bank project supervision teams to ensure adequate compliance with Bank safeguards.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the Project would depend on both macroeconomic policies concerning the labor
market, and microeconomic factors related to the project environment. An over-riding aspect related to
sustainability and risks is that reasonably stable conditions would be maintained in the project area.
There are two factors to consider on the macroeconomic front, which depend on the transition process as
Algeria moves towards a private sector and market based economy.
*  Consistent employment policies would need to be implemented in nonagricultural sectors,
especially in promoting employment in industry and services. Agriculture should not be expected
to absorb labor in a disproportionate manner, after accounting for differences in social costs of
maintaining labor in rural and urban areas. SME-SMI, which would utilize more labor-intensive
techniques than the large-scale capital-intensive public enterprises, would need to be encouraged
in rural areas to promote labor absorption. Ultimately, labor-intensive industrialization and
complementary macroeconomic and structural policies would be needed for a coherent
employment strategy.
* The long-term policy perspective for poverty reduction would have to emphasize asset creation
which would increase labor productivity, rather than purely social transfers.
With respect to the Institutional Development component for MADR, it is expected that training on
strategic perspectives and policy analysis will improve the effectiveness of the central agricultural
administration. Furthermore, training for central and decentralized staff in project design, analysis,
management, M&E and impact assessment will also enhance the coordination and implementation of
decentralized rural development programs. However, as is the case with all strategic thinking and policy
analysis, the receptivity of the political decision makers to the options developed will be critical to their
translation into action. The Bank would need to maintain an open continuous policy dialogue with the
Government in this context.
In the specific case of the sustainability of project interventions, there are seven elements:
*  Adequate O&M resources need to be allocated in the budget for maintenance activities to be
managed by the Government. This is an issue that merits attention in the context of a Public
Expenditure Review (PER) and Agricultural Expenditure Review (AER). However, the priority
given to rural employment by the Government is reflected in the increased resources being
allocated to the DGF and its organization in a decentralized structure.
*  Financing of O&M costs of interventions on public lands during the life of the Project would be
- 31 -



shared between the Bank and the Government due to the incremental nature of the interventions.
Costs of interventions on private lands would be shared by the beneficiaries through in kind (e.g.,
as fanuly labor) or financial contributions, as these interventions are expected to create
externalities in reducing soil erosion. Subsequently, O&M expenditures would be the
responsibility of the Government for activities on public lands and the beneficiaries for activities
on private lands and are included in financial and economic analyses. In particular, all
maintenance costs for interventions on private lands would be borne by the beneficiaries of
agricultural development type interventions. In water resource mobilization operations for the
retenues collinaires, WUA would take over the management of the infrastructure as a concession
and contribute towards O&M.
o  In this respect, developing capacity for participatory approaches to promote community
involvement is critical for the proposed Project and for the longer term programs of the
Government. The involvement of comrnmunities in project activities through participatory
approaches has been a radical departure from traditional top-down approaches. Gradual as it may
be, it has increased the sensitivity of the communities to the justification for the interventions and
enhanced their "ownership" of the resources created, leading to better chances for sustainability.
O  One other aspect that would contribute to the sustainability of project interventions is the
increased income flows from diversified production, namely fruit trees and grapes. These income
flows will enhance the maintenance of the on-farm investments.
o  As the Government has parallel programs under PNDAR to promote the conversion of marginal
cereal lands to fruit trees, the gradual increase in fruit tree production could bring about
decreases in fruit prices. Currently, demand for fruits is strong, particularly for almonds and
pommiers and Algeria imports fruits. A marketing study is being initiated by the DGF and fruit
prices will be monitored during project implementation with view towards program adjustments.
o  The project focus in general and the specific actions, particularly the erosion control
interventions, are consistent with the National Environmental Action Plan for Sustainable
Development (PNAE-DD) developed partly with Bank support and discussed in an international
conference in Algiers in June 2002.
o  Finally, as indicated in the strategic context of the project, the ongoing Rural Employment
Project has influenced policy perspectives on matters related to decentralized operations and
participatory approaches for rural development. In this context, a new Agricultural and Rural
Development Program (PDAR) is being developed in the spirit of the Rural Employment Project
with a "mise en valeur en proximite" perspective, implicating the decentralized administration of
other ministries in the wilayate as well. The proposed Second Rural Employment Rural Project
will thus be the driving element of the PDAR and mise en valeur en proximite efforts in the
targeted wilayate as well as the country as a whole.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Labor-intensive techniques may not be      N        Clear specification of contracts for delivery of
used in implementation, respected by                obligations for employment and effective M&E
firms and enforced by the DGF through               backed by sanctions; restrictions on the use of
technical specification of contracts and            machinery.
through M&E.
Participatory approaches to enhance the    M        Intensive participatory consultations have been
communities' receptivity to and                     held from project preparation on and will be
- 32 -



ownership of project activities may meet            maintained during implementation but the main
resistance due to mistrust of the                   mitigating effect will be early impact which
Government.                                         will win the trust of the communities.
Farmers may not have timely access to     N         Through the coordination of decentralized
agricultural services and seasonal                  services of MADR, priority access to existing
finance.                                            financial instruments will be accorded to
beneficiaries; once fruit production is
established, cash flows are expected to be
adequate for seasonal finance.
Motivated personnel may not be             N        DGF does not have high turnover and
identified to ensure the integration of the         association of staff with PER1/PER2 is
capacity built into the fundamental                 considered a privileged position; effective
business processes of DGF and MADR.                 MADR personnel should be appointed to and
maintained in key positions.
Viable and sustainable rural development   M        Policy dialogue with the Government will be
strategies, policies and impact assessment          maintained in the context of the institutional
processes are developed but not                     development components and in general to
implemented effectively.                            ensure the effective translation of institutional
development efforts to actions, eventually with
possible financing.
From Components to Outputs
Participatory approaches to enhance        M        Interisive participatory consultations have been
ownership of interventions by                       held from project preparation on and will be
communities may meet resistance due to              maintained during implementation but the main
mistrust of the Government.                         mitigating effect will be early impact which
will win the trust of the communities.
Adverse climate effects will affect        S        Small scale water resource utilization activities
results.                                            will be supported by the project and
complementary efforts will be sought under the
PNDAR.
Security conditions may affect             H        Flexibility is required in shifting resources and
implementation.                                     activities to other areas; however, project
activities should also reduce conjunctural
problems.
Farmers may be constrained in              N        Interventions on farrners' lands will flexibly
contributing to project activities on their         entail contributions in labor, in kind or in
fields.                                             financial terms by the beneficiaries.
Beneficiaries will assume O&M costs        M        Through the coordination of decentralized
and poverty may affect sustainability               services of MADR, priority access to existing
adversely.                                          financial instruments will be accorded to
beneficiaries; once fruit production is
established, cash flows are expected to be
- 33 -



adequate for seasonal finance.
Capacity created may not remain           N         DGF does not have high turnover and
associated with the project, DGF and                association of staff with PER1/PER2 is
MADR.                                               considered a privileged position; overall
turnover in MADR is more internal than
external, but effective staff should be
maintained in key positions.
Conjunctural conditions may affect M&E    N         Authorities are expected to provide adequate
after implementation.                               security arrangements for M&E consultants.
Fruit prices may fall with increased      N         A marketing study will be carried out by DGF
production                                          to assess potential market constraints. Fruit
prices will be monitored during project
implementation with a view towards potential
adjustment of activities.
Overall Risk Rating                        S        Experience indicates that project
implementation would face negligible to
moderate risk, but the substantial risk rating
reflects the conjunctural conditions in Algeria.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project distinguishes itself in its emphasis on participatory approaches, giving a higher voice to the
beneficiaries and partners in the rural development process. In addition, it focuses on: (i) labor-intensive
methods which are more pertinent in the face of the existing factor proportions and unemployment in
Algeria, rather than capital-intensive techniques; and (ii) decentralized implementation, whereby the
center assumes a planning, regulation and coordination role while actual operations are under the control
of decentralized staff, who are closer to the beneficiaries and the reality of field conditions.
In the context of the ongoing Rural Employment Project, this experience has already made its mark and
has inspired other programs and actions with similar characteristics. The PDAR with the mise en valeur
en proximite approach will be a critical catalyst in creating synergy with other sectors' development
programs in rural areas.
Finally, activities under the Water Resource Mobilization component need to be consistent with water
sector policies and strategies. Currently, Algeria is facing a persistent drought which has affected the
- 34 -



water sector seriously. The priority is to ensure potable water, particularly to urban centers. A new water
resource management perspective is evolving in Algeria and the Bank has been requested to contribute to
the development of the sectoral strategy as well as financing specific investments, including an integrated
water resource management project for the East.
The present project, as well as the ongoing Rural Employment Project would have a critical impact in
reducing soil erosion which, thereby increasing the life of downstream reservoirs (through sustainable
participatory approaches in watershed management). As such, it would have a positive effect on the
water sector. For the Water Resource Mobilization activities, which are critical to sustainable impact in
the essentially semi-arid project zones, prior authonzation from the water sector authorities, supported
with adequate technical and environmental studies, as well as exploratory assessment of the water quality
and quantity, would ensure a high degree of consistence with current water sector policies.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   For hill dams (retenues collinaires) prior to the authorization of the specific investment activity
the following will be required:
* The activity specific Environmental Assessment Report acceptable to the Bank, which is
required for the Bank authorization of the technical and engineering studies to proceed;
* The technical study acceptable to the Bank, which incorporates the mitigation measures of
the activity specific Environmental Assessment report into the technical bidding documents,
which will also be reviewed and cleared by the Bank;
* A panel review according to 0D4.37 if technical specifications indicated in OD4.37 are
triggered, with the implementation of Bank recommendations based on the results of the
panel review; and
* The creation of a water user association in conformity with the Code des Eaux and
associated implementation texts.
*   For rural roads renovation, prior to the authorization of the specific investment activity, the
following will be required:
*   The activity specific Environmental Assessment Report acceptable to the Bank, which is
required for the Bank authorization of the technical and engineering studies to proceed; and
* The technical study acceptable to the Bank, which incorporates the mitigation measures of
the activity specific Environmental Assessment report into the technical bidding documents,
which will also be reviewed and cleared by the Bank.
*   Any activity that entails resettlement as defined by 0D4. 12 will not be financed under the Loan.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
[Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
- 35 -



21 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lackmg and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Kutlu Somel                      Letitia A. Obeng       KJ       Theodore O.   Iers
Team Leader                      Sector Director                  Country Director
- 36 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                      ri Ctical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Increase employment        Creation of 36,000        Project Start-up Workshop  A consistent rural
person-years of employment                           development and employment
through labor-intensive    DGF, DPIEE and independent policy framework which
activities using the instruments M&E consultants financed by  promotes labor intensive
of environmental protection  the Project will assess impact  choices in the economy,
and agricultural development  through contract and physical reducing the disproportionate
interventions t2rgeted to the  monitoring (monthly data  burden on agriculture to
poor rural mountainous zones  sheets and quarterly and  absorb labor
in east-central Algeria    annual reports), surveys and
modeling of indicators
Secondary effects of SME in
rural areas on incomes and
employment
Improved governance and    Development of effective rural
effective development      strategies and policies
management
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Generate rural employment  Creation of 36,000        DGF and independent M&E    Adequate O&M resources for
both in the short-term and in a person-years of employment  consultants financed by the  the project interventions on
sustainable manner in the  through labor-intensive project Project will assess impact  public and pnvate lands
medium-term in the targeted  activities              through contract and physical
mountainous areas                                    monitonng (monthly data    Favorable macroeconomic
sheets and quarterly and   policies for labor-intensive
annual reports), surveys and  techniques
modeling of indicators
Favorable market conditions
A baseline survey will be  for private sector operations
carried out to measure     for increased employment
progress against
Mid-term and ex post reviews
Increase in rural household                           Rural women will be
incomes                                              integrated into project
activities to the extent possible
and certain activities will
target women specifically
Additional employment due to
indirect secondary effects of
increased economuc activity
and incomes
Improved project management
and implementation capacity
- 37 -



in the central and
decentralized DGF
administration
Imhproved rural strategy and  Improved capacity in the  Statistics;            The momentum will be
policy design and higher  centralized and decentralized  implemented M&E processes  maintained in the shift from
impact of rural programs for  administration of MADR for  for national rural development centrally planned to market
sustainable development and  developing rural development programs;            based rural development
reducing poverty          programs and for          quarterly and annual reports  policies and programs
implementing these programs  by M&E consultants and
in a better coordinated manner DPIEE, based on annual
implementation plans;
implementation of results and
recommendations of reports of
studies carried out; and
evaluation reports of training
activities
- 38 -



I    Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators        I_Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Reduced soil erosion through  Reduction in soil erosion (ha, Central and regional DGF  Labor-intensive techniques
forestry activities and    ikmnl?yr)                 organization, PMU and      will be used in
diversification of production                        consultants, will collect  implementation, respected by
systematic information and  firms and enforced by the
data on physical, income and  DGF through technical
employment effects through  specification of contracts and
M&E, surveys, procurement  through M&E
and disbursement records and
through modeling of indicators Participatory approaches will
on erosion and income      enhance the communities'
generation                 receptivity to and ownership of
project activities
A baseline survey will be
carried out to measure
progress against
Agricultural development   Estimates of fruit tree and                          Farmers will have timely
interventions to create assets,  grape production and fruit                     access to agricultural services
increase diversification in  pnces                                              and seasonal finance through
agncultural production and                                                      existing financial instruments
reduce social and economic  km of rural roads built or
isolation                 rehabilitated                                         Strong demand will continue
for fruits, and stable fruit
m3 of water mobilized                                prices will be maintained
Institutional development  Number of persons trained  Progress and final reports on  Motivated personnel will be
through training for       (staff and beneficianes)  training by DGF and        identified to ensure the
decentralized project                                consultants                integration of the capacity
management and             Training courses, workshops                          built into the fundamental
implementation through     and seminars                                         business processes of DGF
participatory approaches
Improved rural strategy design Number of staff trained  Quarterly and annual reports  Motivated personnel will be
and policy analysis, improved                        by M&E consultants and     identified to ensure the
rural development programs;  Number of strategy and policy DPIEE, based on annual  integration of the capacity
and effective, efficient and  design studies         implementation plans;      built into the fundamental
better monitored public                              implementation of results and  business processes of MADR
expenditures with significant  Databases and IT systems for  recommendations of reports of
rural development impact in  policy design and M&E   studies carried out; and
reducing rural poverty                               evaluation reports of training
activities
- 39 -



H    Key Performance       ] Data Collection Strategy l                           l
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators                                    |Critical Aissumptions
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
Erosion control measures   US$ 50.2 million;           Monthly, quarterly and annual Participatory approaches will
ha reforested;             reports by M&E consultants  enhance ownership of
ha river bank stabilization;  and DGF through CCGP,   interventions by communities
ha rehabilitation and      based on annual
biological stabilization of  implementation plans      Adverse climate effects will be
terraces;                                              minimal
volume of plant material
produced;                                              Conjunctural conditions may
m3 flood control structures to                         affect implementation,
reduce runoff and water                                flexibility is required in
induced erosion;                                       shifting resources and
ha forest rehabilitation;                              activities to other areas
ha silvicultural activities
Agncultural development    US$ 66.7 million;                                      Through participatory
through diversification by  ha fruit trees;                                       approaches, interventions on
substituting perennial crops  ha grapevines;                                      farmers' lands will entail
for annual cereals to reduce  ha or km windbreaks against                         contributions in kind or in
erosion on farmers' lands  wind erosion;                                          financial terms by the
ha land clearing by destoning                          beneficiaries
of fields;
lkm rural roads built or                               Beneficiaries will assume
rehabilitated to reduce                                O&M costs and poverty may
economic and social isolation;                         affect sustainability adversely;
number of small livestock                              through the coordination of
distributed                                            decentralized services of
MADR, existing financial
instruments will be used to
support seasonal finance
Security conditions may affect
implementation; flexibility is
required in shifting resources
and activities to other areas
Stable frut prices and strong
demand for fruits will be
maintained.
Water resource mobilization  US$ 15.5 million;                                    Apart from economic,
for irrigation, potable water  (number, mn, m'/sec) hill dams                     technical and environmental
and livestock              (retenues collinaures); wells;                         assessment in the preparation
deep wells, springs and                                of engineering designs for
watering points (madjens,                              rural roads and retenues
djoubs, diguettes)                                     collinaires, WUA will need to
be established for retenues
collinaires for Bank approval
of the investments
Conjunctural conditions may
affect implementation;
-40 -



flexibility is required in
shifting resources and
activities to other areas
Support for the CCGP and   US$ 4.6 million;                                     Capacity created remains
CCGW                       number of people trained in                          associated with the project and
project management,                                  DGF
participatory approaches,
gender issues, technical areas                       Conjunctural conditions may
and project organization                             affect M&E after
(beneficiaries and project                           implementation; authorities
staff);                                              are expected to provide
number of vehicles, computers                        adequate secunty
and office equipment;                                arrangements
monitoring and evaluation;
other consultants' services
Institutional Development for US$ 4.5 million;       Quarterly and annual reports  Capacity created remains
the Ministry or Agriculture  number of central and   by M&E consultants and     associated with MADR in
and Rural Development      decentralized administration  DPIEE, based on annual  effective positions;
(MADR)                     staff trained,            implementation plans; reports policy and strategy studies are
number of pilot projects   of studies carred out; and  utilized effectively
implemented                evaluation reports of traimng
activities
- 41 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
Project design focuses on the basic objectives of direct and indirect employment creation: the former to
respond to the inmmediate problem of severe unemployment in the project area, and the latter, to enhance
the options for medium to long term development for more sustainable employment creation through
increased and more diversified production, both on-farm and off-farm, through increased demand for
upstream and downstream services. The project also aims to integrate rural women in project activities,
difficult as this may prove to be, given the existing socio-cultural conditions, through direct access to
project activities in general and through specific activities targeting rural women.
As indicated in Annex 11 on Social Assessment, the project focuses on participatory approaches in order
to enhance ownership of interventions and activities that are responsive to beneficiaries' needs. A
prelimmary survey, using project staff who received basic training in participatory approaches, assisted
by trainers who had received training under the ongoing Rural Employment Project (PERI - Loan
4143-AL) and coordinated by a team of consultants, used diverse techniques to assess the needs and
constraints of men and women in the project zones (see Sondage PrOtminaire in Documents in Project
Files). This was a useful experience for both the project staff and the beneficiaries. As a consequence,
project components were developed durng project preparation to reflect the critical constraints in the
project zone. These are reflected mainly in the increased emphasis on water resource mobilization.
Ultimately, project implementation will also entail a degree of flexibility as is the case under PER1, to
adapt to evolving conditions.
The activities to be implemented under the first three components entailing works are indicated in the
table below:
Activities         Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5     Total
Reforestation (ha)                    1,596   2,789   1,780  1,036   7,200
Forest rehabilitation (ha)              900   1,650   1,300    55t   4,400
Silviculture (ha)              1,55(  2,390   3,430   2,700   1,680  11,750
Terracing (ha)                        1 1,128  1,778   852     398   4,156
River bank protection (ha)        .     670   1,395   1,19     495   3,750
Flood control structures (m 3)  140,000 253,500 218,500 114,000  74,000 800,000
Fruit trees (ha)               1,00(  4,292   5,593   2,471   1,364  14,720
Fruit trees, irrgated (ha)        .     564   1,618    622     406   3,210
Viticulture (ha)                 7(     215    235     17(      4(    730
Land clearing - destoning (ha)  2,000  3,350  4,025   2,275  3,25(  14,900
Windbreaks (km)                  5(     383     399    340     229   1,401
Rural roads rehabilitation (km)  90     315     51(    365     205   1,485
Rural roads upgrading (kin)      2(     230     350     170    105     875
Hill dams (U)                                     11     1      .      12
Water points (U)                 26      44      46     29      28    173
Rehabilitation of springs (U)    41      51      3      1       1      159
Beekeeping (U)              _         4,200   5,400   5,200  3,900  18,700
Poultry (J)                          23,75   23,75   23,75  23,75   95,000
Cunuculture (U)                        2,250  3,70(   4,250   2,800  13,000
irtisanal activities (U)                605     79(    650     455   2,500
Wells (U)                                38      4E     4       24    150
Rehabilitation of wells (U)              24      31     31      14    100
Deep wells.                              4a_     47     39      33    163
- 42 -



The project will comprise the following components to be implemented by the centralized and
decentralized administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR) generally,
and the General Directorate of Forestry (DGF) specifically, through competitive market based
procurement procedures, emphasizing small lots as the basis of contracts to encourage SME.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$50.20 million
Soil Erosion Control
This is the critical project component that will serve as the instrument for direct short-term employment
creation, using labor-intensive techniques. The emphasis is on natural resource management targeting the
critical problem of soil erosion. A critical aspect of this component is the employment of forest area
riparians in a participatory manner to ensure the sustainability of interventions. Specific activities
comprise the following:
*  Reforestation targeting degraded mountainous areas: this will entail both forestry and forage
species, as trees or as bushes. This approach aims to respond to the agro-pastoral charactenstic of
the project zone, with over-exploitation of the natural resource base for grazing. Pastoral
management plans will be developed in a participatory manner to enhance the sustainability of
these interventions, using the model of Ras El Ma in Sidi Bel Abbes under PERI, where similar
issues are being addressed in a participatory manner.
*   River bank protection entails the biological stabilization of river banks which are susceptible to
soil erosion due to erratic flows.
*  Terracing and biological control entails the building or the rehabilitation of terraces on steep
slopes susceptible to serious erosion. Terraces serve to break the force of water flows. Biological
control through trees and bushes enhance the process of stabilizing soils. As in the case of
reforestation, where pertinent, these activities will also be subject to pastoral management plans
developed through participatory approaches.
*  Plant material production: to ensure plant material of adequate quantity and quality in a timely
manner, plant production will be contracted independently and plants will be provided to
contractors. The costs associated with this activity are accounted for in tree planting activities as
the cost of the plants.
*  Flood control structures. while the forestry based activities described above depend on a planting
season, flood control structures can be built around the year, particularly during summer months
when seasonal unemployment increases. These structures have been shown to be highly effective
in reducing soil erosion and in creating employment. In some instances, these structures have
also protected downstream settlements, saving human lives and property from the ravages of
floods.
*  Forest rehabilitation is similar to reforestation but targets established forests which have become
degraded. Planting densities are lower around established plants. As in the case of reforestation,
pastoral management plans will be developed in a participatory manner, focusing on both
forestry and forage species.
*   Silvicultural activities, which are also very labor intensive, aim at cleaning up degraded forest
areas with plants that are old, dead or suffering from pests. It will also entail clearing undercover
growth to remove undesirable plants and weeds that can put pressure on trees.
- 43 -



Project Component 2 - US$66.70 million
Agricultural Development
This component aims to address employment within a medium to long term perspective through
agncultural development activities in the mountainous project areas. These areas are currently
characterized by a cereal-livestock system, mainly barley for feed and some wheat, and livestock, mainly
ovines (sheep and goats). The extensive nature of livestock production has led to an over-exploitation of
the natural resource base. This component aims to diversify the production base by expanding the limited
tree fruit production in the project area. Field assessment has indicated that diversification will be a
relative process in that cereal production will continue in an alley cropping system.
Participation is a critical element of most agricultural development activities. In fruit tree planting
activities beneficiaries will contribute to 50 percent of costs for digging the troughs and planting the
trees. This participation will be either in the form of labor or actual financial contribution. No mechanical
methods will be allowed except for the deep ploughing necessary for viticulture. In land clearing,
beneficiaries will contribute 30 percent of costs through labor or finances.
Women will benefit from agricultural development activities in an integral manner. However, in response
to women's expressed wishes and taking into consideration social and cultural factors that characterize
the project areas, specific activities targeting women were also developed.
Finally, fruit tree and small livestock activities will be closely associated with extension efforts through
the DSA and the CDF, with a specific focus on the requirements for reaching female beneficiaries.
Specific activities under this component are:
o Fruit tree plantations which will be carried out under two systems:
o      Rainfed fruit tree plantations will focus on species adapted to rainfed conditions, such as
almonds, figs, olives, etc.
o      Irrigated fruit tree plantations such as pears, apples, etc., which require an assured
quantity of water. This activity will depend on the prerequisite of water of adequate
quantity and quality.
o  Viticulture aims to establish vineyards in appropriate environments, reestablish or expand
vineyards in areas where there was or is a tradition of grape production. In general, viticulture is
a rainfed activity and will follow the same procedures as rainfed fruit tree plantations. Viticulture
is also the only exception to mechanical practices whereby an initial deep ploughing is allowed
to ensure deep root growth for grape vine stock.
o  Windbreaks aim at protecting planted areas, particularly young plantations, from wind and wind
erosion.
o  Land clearing entails destoning of land to allow a shift from cereal to fruit tree production.
These lands are expected to be converted to fruit tree orchards or vineyards under the project.
o   Rural roads (upgrading and rehabilitation) enhances market access and overall social and
economic integration of remote mountain villages. Technical expertise will be provided from
project resources during implementation and by the Bank for supervision and technical support.
The PIM will include an operational manual of procedures to be followed for the implementation
of this activity from the activity specific EA to realization.
o   Small livestock. This entails a shift to commercial or subsistence production of small animals,
- 44 -



mainly poultry, beekeeping and rabbits.
Activities targeting rural women. These are diverse artisanal activities such as sewing,
embroidery, etc., and will entail provision of equipment, materials and training. Other individual
or group initiatives (such as product processing and marketing) will also be assessed and
considered.
Project Component 3 - US$ 15.50 million
Water Resource Mobilization
Water resource mobilization is critical to project activities. The project zone is characterized by low
rainfall with significant intra- and inter-annual variation. While irrigation is practiced in the lower valleys
(outside the project zones) through large irrigation schemes, in the mountainous and hilly areas the water
potential is not adequately exploited for irrigation or potable water. This is a general characteristic of the
water sector in Algeria, whereby the emphasis is on large schemes while small and medium scale
irrigation (SMI) and potable water for small settlements have lower priority. Both surface and
groundwater are actually and potentially important sources for SMI, and are exploited extensively
officially and through illicit means. In fact, in Algeria, agricultural land irrigated by SMI is several times
the area irrigated by large scale irrigation (LS1).
In the project zone, capturing and managing existing water resources will be a critical factor in relieving
some of the risks arising from variable agro-climatic conditions. Clean potable water will also become
available to rural populations. As for irrigation, certain activities will require the prerequisite of water
availability (e.g., irrigated fruit trees). Irrigation, in general, will allow more intensive and diversified
agricultural production.
Close coordination will be maintained with the Directions Hydraulique de Wilaya (DHW - Wilaya
Water Directorates) in water resource mobilization activities, particularly for the activities of hill dams
and wells. The DHW have wilaya water resource plans and associated studies (even though some may
need to be updated). The choice of the sites for the hill dams and deep wells will be authorized by the
DHW, complemented by additional studies and exploratory drilling where necessary. In all cases, water
has to be of adequate quantity and quality according to national standards for the subsequent investment
activity to be authorized. Financing for hill dams and deep wells will include equipment such as pumps,
distribution channels, etc., as well as instrumentation, such as piezometers, meters, etc. Critical factors
such as water tables, water quality will be monitored to prevent adverse environmental effects. In
particular, it will be ensured through extension and monitoring that water used for food production for
human consumption is free of pollution and meets national standards. For hill dams, the PIM includes an
operational manual of procedures to be followed for the implementation of this activity, particularly for
the activity specific EIA.
The specific activities under this component are as follows:
* Hill dams (retenues collinaires) serve a double function as reservoirs with small capacity for
irrigation and potable water and as an element of erosion control strategies. It is also claimed that
they help groundwater recharge by slowing down surface flows. The height of the dam for the
hill dams will not exceed 15 meters. A hill dam will be subject to several conditions (apart from
normal engineering and geological studies) before associated investments can be authorized by
the Bank:
o      Compliance with safeguards related to safety of dams (OP4.37) where necessary;
-45 -



o      Prior environmental impact studies;
o      Prior establishment and training of water users associations (WUA).
o  Water points are small collections of runoff points to be used mainly for livestock and for the
irrigation of small areas.
o  Rehabilitation of springs entails building covered or open tanks for collecting spring water for
use as potable water with sanitizing (chlorination -javelisation) and for livestock. Irrigation
potential is negligible, if any.
o  Shallow wells (around 30 - 50 m depth on average) entail both the construction of new shallow
wells as well as the rehabilitation of existing shallow wells and include the provision of pumps,
meters and distribution equipment.
o  Deep wells (around 50 - 100 m depth on average) also entail both the construction of new deep
wells as well as the rehabilitation of existing deep wells and include the provision of pumps,
meters and distribution equipment. Depending on the scale and capacity of the deep well,
establishment of WUA would be recommended.
The Algerian Government, through the PNDAR/FNRDA, is emphasizing increasing water use
efficiency by promoting water saving techniques, essentially drip irrigation. The cases observed
under the ongoing Rural Employment Project have demonstrated the significant complementarity
between the project and PNDAR initiatives. The impact is considerably enhanced in that a given
amount of water can be used to irrigate a larger area through drip irrigation. Given water scarcity in
Algeria, this is an initiative and technique that needs to be encouraged. The Algerian Government
will finance irrigation equipment through the PNDAR/FNRDA in a manner complementary to the
project activities.
Project Component 4 - US$4.60 million
Support for the Central PMUJ (CCGW) and the Wilaya level PMU (CCGW)
This component covers diverse activities such as training for DGF staff, required studies, consultant
services for M&E, and equipment and vehicles for the project management and implementation structure,
as well as for the DSA. The two important elements of this component are the training in participatory
approaches for project staff and the independent M&E. These two activities are recent innovations for
the DGF which are also having a wider impact on other MADR projects.
Specific activities will entail the following:
o Training activities targeting central and field staff of the DGF as well as the field staff of DSA
and DHW and the beneficiaries:
o Participatory approaches will emphasize various approaches and techniques to involve
beneficiaries in project implementation, including both theoretical work and field work
through on-the-job training in the laboratory provided by the project; this will include a
special perspective on gender-specific issues pertaining to women, targeting both male and
female DGF staff,
o Project management will focus on both coordination and implementation aspects,
emphasizmg approaches, procedures and instruments, such as financial management,
procurement, record keeping, reporting, etc.;
o Information technology will focus on specific software and hardware to be used in project
implementation;
o Technical training will target both project staff and beneficiaries and emphasize the specific
-46 -



project related topics as tree fruit production techniques, small livestock production (for
poultry, rabbits and beekeeping); operational procedures for the WUA, maintenance of water
and irrigation equipment, etc.;
o  Training activities targeting rural women, focusing on specific areas such as marketing and
processing of agricultural and nonagricultural products, sewing and embroidery, etc ; and
o  Advanced technical training of short duration (2-3 month courses) on, e.g., restoration of
degraded mountainous lands, soil erosion monitoring, etc.
*  Studies:
o  A baseline survey will be conducted in the first year of the project to compile data with
which to assess progress and impact;
o  Technical studies for water resource mobilization and rural road activities, entailing
environmental, feasibility, engineering, geological, etc., assessment; and
o  Marketing and socioeconomic impact studies.
*  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) will be carried out by independent consultants in a manner
complementary to project implementation.
*  Equipment comprising the following:
o Computers (desktop and laptop) with associated hardware (e.g., printers) and software;
o Office equipment (fax machines, photocopiers, etc.);
o Audio-visual equipment (projectors, cameras, video recorders, tape recorders, etc.); and
o Vehicles (cars, all terrain 4x4 cars and pickup trucks, motorcycles and spare parts).
Project Component 5 - US$4.47 million
Institutional Development for the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR)
This component arose in the context of the ongoing CAS discussions, which are being held in an open,
inclusive and transparent manner, giving voice to many stakeholders. In the context of the CAS initiative,
sectoral discussions are also being held. Such a workshop was held in Ghardaia in April 2002 on
Sustainable Rural Development, with the participation of around 45 persons from diverse areas such as
farmers, private and public sector representatives in agricultural and agro-industrial sectors, officials
from central and local agricultural administration as well as related ministries of Land Use and
Environment, and Water Resources. The workshop discussions and recommendations noted the positive
developments on the policy front in the context of the PNDAR but also signaled constraints in the areas
of policy design and analysis, decentralized implementation and M&E.
In particular, it was signaled that the policy changes from a centrally planned management of the
agricultural sector to one emphasizing a market environment with targeted development projects were
positive developments. However, the new policy environment required policy analysis, M&E and impact
assessment capacity at the center. More importantly, for the policy changes to succeed, it was imperative
that the decentralized MADR administration be equipped to address development initiatives in a dynamic
manner. The newly appointed State Minister for Rural Development in MADR noted that while they had
the policy instruments to some extent, implementation faced constraints at the decentralized level due to
lack of capacity.
Dunng project preparation, it was also observed that there were complementarities between some of the
PNDAR and PER objectives and instruments in areas such as production diversification, protection of
natural resources and water resource mobilization.
-47 -



Finally, the ongoing Rural Employment Project has influenced policy perspectives on matters related to
decentralized operations and participatory approaches for rural development. In this context, a new
Agricultural and Rural Development Program (PADR) is being developed in the spirit of the Rural
Employment Project with a "mise en valeur en proximite" perspective, implicating the decentralized
administration of other ministries in the wilayate as well. In this respect, several inter-ministerial
decisions have already been signed, in particular, one between the Ministry of the Interior and
Municipalities (MICL) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR). The former is
represented by the Wali, the chief administrator in each wilaya. Hence, coordination for rural
development is assured under the governor, implicating diverse ministries involved in rural development
such as water resources, housing, health, education, etc. The proposed Second Rural Employment Rural
Project will thus be the driving element of the PDAR and mise en valeur en proximite efforts in the
targeted wilayate as well as the country as a whole.
Hence, it was decided to incorporate a broader Institutional Development component for MADR
targeting both the broader areas of policy design and implementation and M&E of development
programs, and the specific context of the project area. For the project area, the focus will be on the
complementarities between the CDF, DSA and DHW, providing them with adequate training and
equipment to ensure effective support to the collaborative project efforts. A Ministerial Instruction has
been sent to the Walis, the agricultural services (DSA and various institutes) indicating their roles in the
project in this context.
The training activities are also based on a MADR document on a Training Plan for Agricultural Policy
Analysis and Planning.
On the general focus of the Institutional Development component, it was decided that a significant part of
the resources would be allocated to training programs targeting the decentralized administration. This
training would facilitate capacity development in implementing market oriented rural development
programs, giving authority and responsibility to regional and wilayate staff through diverse tools such as
participatory approaches. At least 25 percent of this component will be allocated to training activities
targeting the decentralized administration.
The Institutional Development activities will also incorporate gender-specific matters focusing on
women and targeting both male and female staff.
The Institutional Development activities will entail the following structure:
Activity                                 Target
Training on rural strategy analysis, design and  Focus on the Central Administration
implementation; policy analysis, policy
decision models and instruments
Training in project management: project  Focus mainly on the Decentralized
evaluation (economic, financial, social,  Administration but also involving the
including gender issues, environmental and  Centralized Administration in M&E and
technical), financial management, M&E and  impact assessment in the context of efficiency
impact assessment                        of public expenditures
Training in participatory approaches     Focus mainly on the Decentralized
Administration but also involving the
Centralized Administration in terms of
principles of participation
-48 -



Pilot Integrated Rural Development Projects  These micro projects will be held in different
agro-ecological environments and will serve as
laboratories for the training activities in the
context of PADR with a mise en valeur en
- proximite perspective.
-49 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million  US $million
Erosion control                                          45.61         0.00         45.61
Agricultural development                                 60.66         0.00         60.66
Water resource mobilization                              13.51         0.00         13.51
Support for the Central PMU and the Wilaya level PMUs     2.47         2.14         4.61
Technical assistance for the MADR                         2.02         2.45          4.47
Non-allocated                                             0.00          0.46         0.46
Total Baseline Cost                                     124.27          5.05       129.32
Physical Contingencies                                   6.31                       6.31
Price Contingencies                                      6.31                       6.31
Total Project Costs             136.89         5.05       141.94
Front-end fee                    0.95         0.95
Total Financing Required             136.89         6.00       142.89
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million.  US $million  US $million
Goods                                                       0.34          1.64         1.98
Works                                                     133.75          0.00        133.75
Services                                                    0.82          0.53         1.35
Training                                                    1.42          2.42         3.84
Unallocated                                                 0.00          0.46         0.46
Other (PMU operating costs                                  0.56          0.00         0.56
Total Project Costs    136.89           5.05       141.94
Front-end fee                    0.95         0.95
Total Financing Required    136.89          6.00        142.89
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 142.89 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 66 48
% of total project cost net of taxes
- 50 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                    Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial Analysis'
Analysis .                           Taxes         Subsidies
Benefits:                   220.9             208.0              6.3              -6.0
US$m
Costs:                        80.1            158.5                                3.0
US$m                                                                    _ _ _ _ _ _  _
Net Benefits:               140.9              49.5              6.3              -3.0
US$m
IRR:                        23.56             13.39
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The analysis is based on activity-specific (e.g., reforestation, land clearing, fruit tree plantation, flood
controls structures, wells, etc.)fiches techniques, which provide technical coefficients on the investment
activity, operation and maintenance activities and, when pertinent, products. These coefficients are then
associated with market information on unit costs and prices. These technical coefficients and market
information are based largely on the experience of the ongoing Rural Employment Project (PERI - Loan
4143-AL). However, yields and plant density parameters have been adjusted to reflect agricultural
practices (mainly cereal intercropping) and lower yields due to agro-climatic conditions in the PER2
zones. Institutional development activities are included in project costs for purposes of economic and
financial analysis. Benefits of water resource mobilization are reflected in the net benefits of irrigated
production activities.
In estimating the benefit flows from erosion control activities, including fruit tree plantations on private
lands, it was assumed that there would be reduced silting in downstream dams and reservoirs through the
reduced sedimentation arising from soil erosion. This reduced silting would translate into an increased
amount of water available, whose value was included in the benefit flows. This approach is based on a
detailed soil erosion model prepared in the context of M&E under the ongoing PERI. This model is
based on 528 observations of sediment collected in special receptacles over several seasons in 264 pairs
of treated and untreated test plots following a rainfall event. The data are divided into two sets, covering
biological (e.g., reforestation) and mechanical (e.g., flood control structures - corrections torrentielles)
interventions. Factors affecting the rate of erosion (kg/kmi), such as the slope, rainfall amount, ground
cover and intervention) are analyzed in a regression model to arrive at the impact of the intervention.
Mean values are then used.to predict average impact in terms of the volume of sediment reduced. This is
then translated into water gained, which is then reduced by half to account for the volume mort in
- 51 -



reservoirs and dams and to err on the conservative side. (The soil erosion model is available in Project
Files.) The water gained is valued according to the economic and financial cost of water.
This approach allows a significant part of the benefits to be accounted for. However, significant
environmental benefits arising from improved natural resource management, as well as the benefits of
improved human capacity through institutional development activities are not accounted for in
quantitative terrms. As such, the rates of return are underestimated.
A baseline survey is planned during the first year of the project to assess eventual project impact on
household incomes and production. Sound data do not exist for the project zones to assess and project
such impact.
Based on this framework, the estimated ERR is 23.6 percent, reflecting a NPV equivalent to US$ 141
million; and the estimated FRR for the project is 13.4 percent, reflecting a financial NPV equivalent to
US$ 49.5 million).
The recurrent costs associated with the project have been quantified and incorporated into the
cost-benefit analysis. Recurrent costs associated with interventions on farmers' fields will be the
responsibility of those beneficiaries. However, recurrent costs associated with interventions on public
lands, such as reforestation, are included under the Government contribution to project financing.
Employment Creation and Cost Effectiveness
Employment creation under the project is expected to be around the equivalent of 36,000 person-years
based on a 240 day work year. However, certain activities under the project target direct employment
creation through labor-intensive methods. These activities, which will create around 27,000 person-years
of employment, are presented in the table below. The assessment of the cost effectiveness of these
activities indicate that overall, labor costs comprise 54 percent of total costs. The cost of creating the
equivalent of one day of employment is around US$9.52, whereas net wage rates are US$3.37. This
reflects the effects of imperfect labor markets, minimum wage legislation for contractual labor hire and
the high social charges of 38.5 percent. Hence, the principal activities targeting direct employment
creation, namely the soil erosion control activities, are quwte cost effective in terns of employment
creation. Overall, considering the long term development effects as well, project activities will have a
significant impact on rural employment.
Cost Effectiveness of Activities Targeting Direct Em  loyment
Labor   Total    %     Employment  Gross Wage  Net Wage   Employment
Costs   Costs   Labor   Cost/Day   Rate (US$)  Rate (US$)  Person-years
ACTIVITY           (US$ m)) (US$ m)  Costs   (US$)
Reforestation (ha)              4.38   7.43  59.00%        9.62        5 68       3.69        3,217
Forest rehabilitation (ha)      1.83   3.28  55.64%      10.25        5 70       3.71        1,335
Silviculture (ha)               3.09   4.57  67.57%        4 60        3.11       2.02        4,146
River bank protection (ha)      3.29    5.43  60.66%       9.34        5.67       3.68        2,421
Terracing (ha)                  1.23    1.82  67.57%       8.56        5.78       3.76         888
Flood control structures (m3)   13.87  24 97  55.55%      10.20        5.67       3.68       10,200
Destoning (ha)                  3.22   8.62  37.32%       12.53        4.67       3.04        2,867
Windbreaks (km)                 0.62    1.13  55.33%      10.35        5.72       3.72         455
Rural road rehabilitation (kin)  2 00  4.36  45.94%       12.60        5.79       3.76        1,442
TOTAL                          33 54   61.62  54.43%       9.52        5.18       3.37       26,971
- 52 -



Fiscal Impact
The fiscal impact of the project is based on three factors:
(i) It is expected that increased fruit production will increase tax receipts through the VAT of 17 percent.
However, not all the fruit marketing channels allow the VAT to be effected, due to direct consumption,
evasion, etc. It is thus assumed that only 25 percent of the increased fruit production will be subject to
VAT. This creates tax receipts with a NPV of around US$ 6.3 million.
(ii) As fruit tree production increases and takes over, at least partly, cereal lands, cereal production will
decrease. Public expenditures for subsidies for wheat will thus also decrease. Again, as not all the wheat
produced is marketed, only 50 percent of the estimated decrease in wheat production is considered to
have an impact on subsidies. This is equivalent to an NPV of around US$ 6 million (decrease).
(iii) Finally, the difference between the financial and economic price of water is considered to be an
implicit subsidy. This has a NPV of around US$ 3 million.
Thus, on balance, the potential fiscal impact of the project will have a NPV of around US$ 9.3
equivalent.
Main Assumptions:
The discount rate used is 10 percent. For prices and costs:
*  Market prices have been used for inputs, products, services and labor
*  Labor costs include 38.5 percent social charges over wages, obligatory on contractual labor hire
*  VAT of 17 percent have been included in costs
*  A profit margin of 15 percent has been included in costs
*  A total of 1 0 percent has been allowed for price and physical contingencies, except for retenues
collinaires (hill dams) for which these contingencies are 20 percent (10 percent each)
The project zone is characterized by a high level of employment. Hence, while contractual arrangements
for labor hire are regulated by minimum wage laws, the opportunity cost of labor is considerably lower.
This is reflected in the low conversion factor for labor, distinguishing between skilled and unskilled
labor. To reflect water scarcity, water prices are increased by 50 percent over financial prices, based on
average water costs.
Hence, the following percentages were used as factors to convert financial prices to economic prices:
Unskilled labor                            30
Skilled labor                              70
Equipment and Transport                    70
Plants                                     100
Water                                      150
Cultivation services (mechanical)          100
Low quality wood                           100
Fruits                                     100
Honey                                      100
Other                                      100
- 53 -



On benefits, it was assumed that cereal intercropping will be maintained under fruit tree plantation,
where plant densities are lower than it would be if such intercropping did not take place. Land clearing
(through destoning) is assumed to result in fruit tree planting as described. Reforestation type activities
entail 60 percent evergreens and 40 percent deciduous trees. Low quality wood production, arising
mainly from maintenance activities, and limited to 1 m'/ha, start from the 30th year for evergreens and
from the 16th year for the deciduous.
Hill dams are assumed to irrigate 90 ha on average. As individual hill dams are identified and subjected
to technical assessment, actual irrigated areas will be used to re-evaluate their impact. In particular, if
drip irrigation techniques are adopted, actual area irrigated with a hill dam would be considerably higher
than this average.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
A key assumption in the economic analysis is that conjunctural conditions in the country and the project
zones would be conducive to the effective implementation of the Project. Given that this factor would
likely have much more of an impact on expected outcomes than the project-specific assumptions and
risks, but is not amenable to quantification, a formal risk and sensitivity analysis is of limited use per se.
However, as indicated in the following table, the effect of varying certain assumptions on the economic
analysis was assessed. Overall, the project shows robust economic and financial returns, whereby ERR
and FRR remain in a viable range in response to increases in costs and decreases in benefits, increases in
the economic costs of labor and to a reduced rate of realization of water resource mobilization. One
particular issue of concern is the market risk posed by emerging marketing issues related to fruits. As the
Government has parallel programs in support of promoting fruit trees in marginal areas, there could be
downward pressure on market prices, even though there is high demand for fruits and Algeria imports
fruits to meet this demand. The results show that a reduction in fruit prices would have the hardest
impact on the rates of return. An internal study is being initiated at the DGF to assess potential issues and
solutions with respect to fruit marketing in Algeria and fruit prices will need to be monitored during
project implementation.
Variation                                      ERR       FRR
Basic analysis                                23.56      13.39
25 percent increase in costs                  20.13      10.58
25 percent decrease in costs                  28.29      17.25
25 percent increase in benefits               27.19      16.35
25 percent decrease in benefits               19.19      9.80
25 percent increase in economic costs of labor  22.37      -
25 percent reduction in irrigated areas       23.25      13.00
25 percent reduction in fruit prices          18.60      9.27
- 54 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
Years Ending
| Year 1| Year 2     | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5     Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          12.0      29.0       45.8      21.6      14.0       0.5       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.5       3.3       7.2        8.0                 0.0
Total Project Costs         12.0      29.5      49.1       28.8      22.0       0.5       0.0
Front-end fee    1.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             13.0      29.5      49.1       28.8      22.0       0.5       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 10.1       21.0      33.2       17.7      12.5       0.5       0.0
Government                2.5        5.5       8.4        4.5       3.3                 0.0
Central                2.5        5.5       8.4        4.5       3.3                 0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.4       3.0       .7.5       6.6       6.2                 0.0
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    13.0      29.5       49.1      28.8      22.0       0.5       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 55 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
Procurement
1.    Procurement Responsibilities. The executing agencies for the project would be the General
Directorate of Forestry (DGF) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR) for
the first four components (Erosion Control, Rural Development, Water Resource Mobilization and
Support for the CCGP and CCGWs) and the Directorate of Investment Programming and Economic
Studies (DPIEE) of the MADR for the fifth component (Institutional Development for the MADR).
The project will use the same implementation design as the ongoing PER. This design is based on the
decentralized DGF structure, which devolves responsibility for day-to-day management of project
activities to local levels of the wilaya (govemorate) organization. At the central level, the Central
Project Management Unit (CCGP - Cellule Centrale de Gestion du Projet) within the DGF would be
responsible for overall project coordination, including procurement of goods, works and services,
and make sure that proper procurement procedures are followed. CCGP/DGF would also be the
principal interlocutor of the Bank. At the decentralized level, the Conservations des Forets (CDF -
Forestry Departments) in each wilaya will be responsible for project implementation and would each
be responsible for procuring goods and works. These agencies have long experience in local
procurement procedures that are in line with Bank Guidelines.
2.     Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," published in January 1995 and
revised in January/August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999, and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," published in January 1997 and revised
September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be carried out with procedures acceptable to IBRD as
summarized in paragraph 9 below.
3.     Procurement Arrangements. The methods to be used for the procurement under this
project, and the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold
contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
4.     The project essentially entails works implemented in a decentralized manner in the six
wilayate. The CDF at each of the six wilayate will be responsible for procurement for works at the
wilayate level. The wilaya level procurement processes and decisions are reviewed and cleared by
the "Commission de Marches de Wilaya " (CDMW - Wilayate Tender Boards). The CCGP will
handle procurement for essentially goods and services which is reviewed and cleared by the
Commission des Marches Publics within the DGF. Contracts which exceed certain limits according
to Algerian regulations on public procurement have to be reviewed and cleared by the Commission
National des Marches (CNM - National Tender Board); these limits are currently DA200 million
(US$2.5 million equivalent) for works, DAIOO million (US$1.25 million equivalent) for goods, and
DA60 million (US$750 thousand equivalent) for services.
5.     The works comprise two sets of activities:
o  physical construction type activities (e.g., flood control infrastructures - corrections
torrentielles) which are independent of any seasonality but are usually done under dry
conditions during the summer months; and
- 56 -



* biological activities (e.g., reforestation), which are highly dependent on a seasonal cycle
which is time bound by the planting season from October to March.
6.    Prior and ex post review of procurement, as well as routine M&E of the ongoing Rural
Employment Project (PER1 - Loan 4143-AL) have provided some lessons, which have been
discussed with the Borrower (the PER I Report on the ex post Procurement Review is available in
PER2 Project Files). Some problems observed early on during implementation have largely been
resolved and procurement takes place in a timely manner now. The lessons derived from the ongoing
project are as follows:
*      Project design encourages effective private sector participation in project
implementation. In the ongoing PERI, critical thresholds for prior review were kept low
to encourage the use of small procurement lots, which allowed SME with limited means
to participate competitively for works. In addition, force account was categorically
excluded from inception as part of project design. Thus, today, nearly two thirds of the
financial volume of works implementation is by the SME generating an impact in PSD.
Private sector participation increases implementation efficiency. The elimination of force
account implementation and the use of competitive procedures have resulted in improved
activity design and reduced unit costs.
*      In contrast, SME participation in forestry activities was limited. Technical specifications
for forestry related activities were more rigid and in some cases, forestry areas faced
conjunctural problems. These implicit and explicit risks precluded SME participation in
forestry activities. As such, these activities have remained in the domain of public
enterprises, which have exhibited a varied performance, generally more problematic on
average than the private sector. The conjunctural situation has since improved and SME
are expected to participate in forestry activities.
*      To increase competitiveness and SME participation in forestry plantation activities in a
country where only Government agencies produce seedlings, it is necessary to separate
the production of seedlings from the planting and maintenance processes. Thus, in the
Second Rural Employment Project, plants will be independently produced under
competitive contracts for the DGF and will be provided to firms for planting.
Procurement processes with SME do pose some problems. One issue during project
implementation arises with firms which successfully bid for several lots. Some of these
decide subsequently to withdraw because they do not have adequate capacity to
undertake all the bids they have won. This causes implementation delays. The DGF has
initiated a register to identify eligible firms with adequate capacity which can participate
in the bidding processes. However, the Bank has informed the Borrower that this is not
acceptable to the Bank. Under the Second Rural Employment Project, explicit eligibility
criteria be included in the bidding documents to ensure that participating firms have the
capacity, means and adequate technical staff to execute the activities they are bidding
for.
*      Early on in the implementation of the ongoing Rural Employment Project, delays were
observed at the decentralized implementation of procurement at the wilaya level where
the review and clearance processes have affected the time bound biological activities.
These problems have been resolved and procurement takes place in a timely manner
now. In addition, the Walis and officials of the proposed project areas were sensitized to
this concem and they provided their assurances, emphasizing the priority nature of the
project for the Government.
*      Preparatory activities for more bulky investments (e.g., engineenng studies for rural
- 57 -



roads and hill dams) have been slow and have caused implementation delays. The
experience gained will now allow for a more realistic procurement planning for these
activities.
7.     Based on the experience of the ongoing Rural Employment Project, and since the same
procurement processes will be used for decentralized operations under PER2, the wilayate in the
project zone were visited and three points were presented to and discussed with the walis (governors)
and high level officials:
o  presentation and clanfication of the objectives and methods of the proposed project;
o  the role of the local authorities in ensuring the coordination between the three key technical
agencies at the local level namely:
o  Direction de Services Agricoles (DSA) in charge of agricultural development programs,
extension, etc.;
o  Conservation des Forets (CDF) in charge of agricultural development in mountainous
and forestry areas; and
o  Direction Hydraulique de Wilaya (DHW) in charge of resource mobilization for potable
water and irrigation; and
o  procurement issues:
o  Procurement will follow Bank guidelines. Algerian public procurement regulations are
largely consistent with Bank guidelines, but, in case of conflict, the latter would have
precedence in the context of the Loan Agreement which is an international agreement;
and
o  Project activities have a biological cycle which would not tolerate delays in procurement
and thus require the vigilance and support of the local authorities in ensuring timely,
correct and transparent procurement processes. Assurances were extended by local
authorities in this respect.
8.    11B Provisions. ICB is not expected for works but could be used for goods. In case the
Borrower opts for ICB for certain activities or goods, Section 2 of Bank Guidelines will apply, with
preference for domestic suppliers applying according to Article 2.54 and Appendix 2 of the Bank
Guidelines.
9.     NCB Provisions. Except in the cases provided for below, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Bank Guidelines and
paragraphs below.
10.   Contracts of goods and works procured under the NCB procedure shall comply with the
following:
o  Any prospective bidder from a country eligible under the Bank Guidelines who proposes to
provide goods produced in or services supplied from any such country shall be eligible to bid
for such contracts;
o  Tenders will be advertised with no less that four (4) weeks for bid preparation;
o  Procurement documents will state eligibility, evaluation and award criteria in an explicit
manner;
o  Government owned or public enterprises shall be eligible provided they are legally and
financially autonomous, operate under commercial law, and are not selected or hired by the
supervising or reporting authority, and will be subject to the same bid and performance
- 58 -



security requirements as other bidders;
o  Bidders will be allowed to deliver their bid by hand or by mail;
o  Bids shall be opened m public; that is, bidders or their representatives shall be allowed to be
present. The time for the bid opening shall be the same as for the deadline for receipt of bids
or promptly thereafter; and shall be announced, together with the place for bid opening, in
the invitation to bid;
o  Prospective bidders shall be allowed to submit technical and financial proposals in two
separate envelopes provided the two envelopes are opened at the same time;
o  Bids shall be evaluated based on price and on other criteria disclosed in the bid documents
and quantified in monetary terms, and provision for preferential treatment for goods of
national origin will be explicitly stated in bidding documents and shall be applied according
to Article 2.54(a) and Appendix 2; paragraphs 1 - 5 of the Bank Guidelines; and
o  The contract shall be awarded to the bidder having submitted the lowest evaluated responsive
bid, and no negotiation shall take place.
11.    These provisions are also to be specified in Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement.
12.    Procurement Capacity Assessment. An assessment of the procurement capacity of the
CCGP and the six participating CDF was carried out by the Bank during pre-appraisal and is
available in Project Files. The results of the analysis revealed few differences between applicable
Algenan procurement rules and procedures and applicable Bank procurement procedures, which
were discussed with the DGF and the CCGP Chief, and it was agreed that the proposed PER2 would
fully comply with applicable Bank Guidelines.
13.    The overall risk assessment resulting from the analysis is rated as AVERAGE. However,
given the experience with the ongoing PER1, the synergy between PERI and PER2 and the training
provided, risks are actually expected to be between LOW and AVERAGE. As such, one annual
procurement supervision is considered to be sufficient and is recommended. The CCGP will establish
an effective system for filing, monitoring and reporting procurement actions.
14.    Two training workshops in procurement were provided to the DGF and specifically to the
CDF staff involved in the preparation and implementation of the proposed PER2. The first workshop
focused on a global review of procurement methods, and the second one dealt mainly with civil
works, emphasizing NCB methods. These training sessions should be followed by formal training
sessions during project implementation as well as on the job-training. CDF staff (e.g., CDF
Tlemcen), who have gained a solid expenence under the Bank-financed PERI could help and provide
guidance to other staff in the various wilayate.
15.    The total value of contracts subject to prior review would be around US$20 million,
representing approximately 14 percent of the total of the Project costs.
16.    General and Specific Procurement Notices and Procurement Advertisements. A General
Procurement Notice (GPN) will be advertised in the "United Nations Development Business"
(UNDB) not less than four weeks after the approval of the proposed Loan by the Board of the World
Bank. This GPN will be updated annually.
17.    Specific procurement notices will be advertised in national and local media for NCB and in
national and intemational media for ICB. All procurement announcements will be placed in a
location accessible to the public in the General Directorate of Forestry, Ministry of Agriculture and
- 59 -



Rural Development and the Wilayate Forestry Directorates.
Procurement methods (Table A)
18.   The ongoing Rural Employment Project introduced two changes involving procurement of
works and goods:
o  Force account, which was used in prior forestry related projects and had proven to be
inefficient, was not allowed and competitive procedures became the norm in procurement;
and
o  In order to encourage SME, including local tdcherons, to be involved in project
implementation, works activities were to be procured in small lots and, as agreed during
negotiations and noted in the official minutes, thresholds were applied to lots. Subsequently,
for firms which had bid successfully on several lots, these lots were combined into a unified
contract which distinguished each lot explicitly.
19.   In the proposed PER2, the same principles will apply. Hence, the thresholds indicated below
apply to lots.
20.   Works. Works would cover mainly the soil erosion control, agricultural development and
water resource mobilization components, entailing diverse activities such as plantation of fruit trees,
reforestation, river bank management, terracing and biological control, flood control infrastructures,
forestry rehabilitation, hill dams, wells, etc. These are expected to add up to an aggregate of
US$133.7 million equivalent. Procurement for lots above US$100,000 equivalent will be carried out
in accordance with National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, up to an aggregate of US$83
million equivalent. The first works contract in each wilaya and in the General Directorate of Forestry
involving lots above US$100,000 and up to US$500,000 will be subject to prior review. All works
contracts pertaining to lots above $500,000 will be subject to prior review. Contracts for lots
estimated to cost up to US$100,000 and up to an aggregate amount of US$5 million equivalent may
be awarded on the basis of comparing quotations from at least three contractors and will not be
subject to prior review. Direct contracting may be used if justified and in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Bank Guidelines for contracts for lots up to US$ 100,000
equivalent and for an aggregate amount of US$5 million; all such procurement through direct
contracting will be subject to the prior review of the Bank. There will be no force account
implementation. Because of the nature of relatively simple works, no pre-qualification of contractors
will be required.
21.    Goods. The project would finance plants and hydraulics equipment for project activities and
vehicles, office equipment, computers, and miscellaneous equipment for the DGF, CDF and DSA.
The total value of goods is estimated at US$2 million equivalent and these goods will be procured by
the DGF. Lots of goods and equipment to be purchased under the project worth greater than
US$300,000 will be procured through Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.6 million equivalent and related contracts will be subject to prior review. The
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) would be used for all ICB for goods. NCB may be used
for lots estimated to cost more than US$100,000 and up to US$300,000 up to an aggregate of US$0.4
million equivalent and the first two of these contracts will be subject to prior review. National
Shopping, based on price quotations obtained from a minimum of three suppliers, can be used for
small quantities of goods, provided that the value of the goods does not exceed US$ 10,000 and the
aggregate amount does not exceed US$ 10,000; these contracts will be subject to ex post review.
Direct contracting may be used if justified and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of
- 60 -



the Bank Guidelines for contracts for lots up to US$100,000 equivalent and for an aggregate amount
of US$5 million.
22.    Services. Services will consist of approximately US$5.9 million of training, studies and
consulting, targeting the DGF/CDF and the MADR. Of this US$5.9 million, training is estimated at
approximately US$4.6 million, and the remainmg US$1.3 million equivalent consists of national and
international consultants. Consultant services with an estimated contract amount exceeding
US$200,000 will be advertised in the United Nations Development Business and in at least one
national paper, seeking expressions of interest. For such contracts, the Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals will be used, and the selection of consultants will be addressed through competition among
qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS). Until further notice the ceiling for National Consultants Shortlists will remain at
US$200,000. In other words, in the case of assignments to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent, the
short-list of consultants may comprise entirely national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified
firms are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms express interest, they will not be
excluded. The selection method of consultants will be based on quality and cost (QCBS) for all
contracts above US$ 100,000 equivalent for firms. Below these thresholds, and with the exception of
the employment of consultants through single source for reasons critical to the project, the selection
method may be on the basis of Consultants' Qualifications. Single source selection may be used in
exceptional circumstances and only for Component 3 (Water Resource Mobilization) and Component
4 (Support for the CCGP and CCGW), with clear explanation of the justification, such as critical
experience built upon the ongoing project. For consultant firms: (i) all contracts above US$100,000
will be subject to prior review, and (ii) the first two contracts up to US$100,000 will be subject to
prior review. Selection of individual consultants for contracts equal to or above US$50,000 will be
based on Section V of Consultant Guidelines and will be subject to the prior review of the report on
the comparison of qualifications, the TOR and the terms of employment. Contracts below US$50,000
may be awarded to individuals and will not be subject to prior review except for the clearance of the
TOR. Sole source contracts may be awarded if justified and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.8, 3.9, 3.10 and 3.11 of the Guidelines.
23.    Bank's ex post Review of Procurement. The Bank's ex post review will be applicable to all
the contracts for above-mentioned lots which are below the thresholds for prior review. In addition to
the regular tasks of prior and ex post reviews, the Bank may also carry out spot checks of the quality
and consistency of the procurement work financed by the Bank loan, with the objective of
strengthening the fulfillment of the Bank's fiduciary responsibilities.
24.    Procurement Plan and Project Implementation Manual. The first 18 months of
procurement activities have been planned in the context of a Procurement Plan for the General
Directorate of Forestry, which will also manage procurement activities related to the Institutional
Development Component for MADR, and for each of the six wilayate. In this context, standard
bidding documents have also been prepared. The related procurement procedures have been
elaborated upon in the context of the Project Implementation Manual.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB            NCB         'Other2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00           115.00        18.74        0.00      133 74
- 61 -



(0.00)           (75.72)        (12.34)         (0.00)      (88.06)
2. Goods                                1.60              0.36           0.02           0.00         [-98
(1.28)            (0.29)         (0.01)         (0.00)       (1.58)
3. Services                             0.00              0.00           5.19           0.00         5.19
(0.00)            (0.00)         (3.95)         (0.00)       (3.95)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00              0.00           0.00           0.57         0.57
(0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                        0.00              0.00           0.95           0.00         0.95
(0.00)            (0.00)         (0.95)         (0.00)       (0.95)
Unallocated                             0.00              0.00           0.46           0.00         0.46
(0.00)            (0.00)         (0.46)         (0.00)       (0.46)
Total                                1.60             115.36          25.36          0.57        142.89
(1.28)           (76.01)         (17.71)        (0.00)       (95.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 62 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                       <=100                    NS                    None
<=100                    DC                      All
>100 and <=500              NCB            First in each wilaya and at
DGF/CCGP (including
DPIEE)
>500                    NCB                     All
2. Goods                       <=10                    IS/NS                   None
<=100                    DC                     None
>100 and <=300              NCB                   First two
>300                    ICB                     All
3. Services
>100                   QCBS                     All
Firms                          <=100                    CQ                   First two
Individuals                    >=50            Section V of Consultant  Report, TOR and terms of
Guidelines             employment
<50                                            TOR
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 20 million (14 %)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every twelve months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Notes:
ICB:   International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
NS:    National Shopping
DC:    Direct Contracting
QCBS: Quality and Cost-based Selection
CQ:    Consultant's Qualifications
TOR: Terms of Reference
Thresholds generally differ by country and project Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regiona: Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 63 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
I. Summary of the financial management assessment. The assessment of the financial management
(FM) aspects of the Second Rural Employment Project (PER2) is based: (i) on the prior experience of
the ongoing Rural Employment Project (PERI; Loan No. 4143-AL) which is currently being
implemented by the General Directorate of Forestry (DGF - Direction Generale des Forets); and (ii) the
reviews that took place during appraisal, covering the operations of the ongoing PERI and the
preparations by the DGF for PER2. Based on this assessment, the current accounting and financial
management system of the two executing agencies for the project, namely, the DGF and the Directorate
of Investment Planning and Economic Studies (DPIEE - Direction de la Planification des
Investissements et des Etudes Economiques), are adequate to ensure appropriate arrangements for the FM
of the project.
2. Risk analysis. The tables below present a summary assessment of the FMS and audit arrangements for
both the centralized as well as the decentralized operations. It should be noted that a thorough Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) has been prepared and will be used by project staff in the context of
financial management, among others.
i.     Risk Analysis for the Centralized Operations
Risk                       Risk             Risk Mitigation Measures
Rating*
Executing Agencies
DGF. A new project in a new area with less     M     Cross fertilization of experience with the
experienced staff may result in inadequate and       ongoing PERI, expected to achieve its
inconsistent implementation of the financial         development objectives is encouraged.
arrangements.
DPIEE. First time implementation of a          M     CCGP at the DGF will have the same FM
Bank-funded project, (the fifth component).          responsibilities for the fifth component that is
managed by the DPLEE.
Flow of Funds
The Administrative Regulation (AR) Instruction  N    During the project supervision, regular
No. 21 du 25 juillet 2001 issued by the MDF, whic     reviews will be carried out to ensure
will reduce the need for a large SA as a method of   that the disbursement method in use is
disbursement, will entail new practices and           effective, particularly as AR 21 is
experience. "Reimbursement" will be the main         implemented.
method of disbursement.
Staffing
The pace of the project accountant's familiarization  M  Transfer of experience from the
with Bank policies and use of the computer            ongoing PERI staff to the new staff, in
models/programs for financial recording &             conjunction with the implementation of
- 64 -



reporting could be slow.                            the procedures contained in the PIM.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The project will be implemented as part of the  M    PIM provides detailed description of the
Government budget. A Country Financial               accounting procedures and the
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) which would        interrelationship between the project FM
assess risks associated with budget processes has    aspects and the national budget processes that
not been carried out.                                are covered by regulations and strictly
enforced.
Internal Audit
Internal audit is limited to compliance with  M     Regular review of the disbursement
verification procedures for work carried out at the  equests by the BAD and the SOE
BAD. BAD follows budget execution procedures,       during supervision.
that require an administrative compliance review
which is limited. The double function of the BAD
as the Financial Controller and as the Government
Treasurer for the Investment Budget (Budget d'
Equipement) also poses a risk.
External Audit
External audits generally entails an administrative  M  There will be: (i).an early appointment
compliance review that includes procurement and     of the auditors; (ii) an agreement with
transactions.                                        he borrower on an agreed and specific
TOR for the annual audit; (iii) an
additional semi-annual SOE review;
and (iv)increased supervision.
Reporting and Monitoring
Financial reports may not provide the mformation  M  orms for financial reporting that are
required by the Bank.                                ased on the databases of contract
accounting information developed in an
Excel-based environment are prepared
and included in the PIM. Maintenance
of the databases for complete and
imely reporting of information is
equired. Upkeep of the databases to
ensure such compliance will be
regularly reviewed during supervision.
Information systems
There is no accounting software in use which may  M  PIM provides a comprehensive set of
prevent comprehensive financial information to be    Excel-based programs to be used for purposes
captured and reported on a timely basis.             of financial management. These programs will
be adapted and improved by local expert staff
to respond to the specific needs of the project
in a flexible manner.
ii.    Risk Analysis for the Decentralized Operations
- 65 -



(These risks are in addition to those that apply to centralized operations. The risks of the
centralized operations apply by default to decentralized operations as well.)
Risk                      Risk            Risk Mitigation Measures
lRating*
Executing Agency:
CDF, in the wilayate. A new project in a new area  M  Cross-support from the CCGP and CDF under
with less experienced staff may result in           the ongoing PERI and the CDF under PER2
inadequate and inconsistent implementation of the    will be provided. Planning and
financial arrangements.                             implementation of a regular cross-support
program will be closely monitored during
supervision.
Staffing
The pace of the coordinators familiarization with  M  Cross-support will be provided from
Bank policies and use of the computer               the ongoing PERI Accountant and
models/programs for financial recording &            Coordinators to the Coordinators
reporting could be slow.                             under the PER2 on a formalized and
regular basis. Implementation of a
regular cross-support program will be
closely monitored during supervision.
Overall Risk Rating
For both the centralized and the decentralized  M    (i) The absence of a country analytical work
operations                                           such as the CFAA; (ii) the decentralized
financial execution of the project; and (iii) the
type of audit of the ongoing project are the
factors which could imply a rating of
"Substantial" risk for the financial
management of the project. However, (i) the
experience of the ongoing PERI which has
demonstrated the strict enforcement of budget
regulations; (ii) the cross support that the
ongoing PERI is providing; (iii) the
accounting and reporting set up at the center
and in the wilayate; and (iv) the existence of a
comprehensive PIM constitute the main
factors in the final modest risk rating.
*     Risk Ranking: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), and N (Negligible or Low
Risk)
3. Strengths and Weaknesses
Significant Strengths                  Basis for Reliance on the FM System
1. Experience gained through the ongoing  Allowed preparation of a comprehensive Project
PER I at the DGF and the CDF  ,          Implementation Manual
2. Availability of experienced PERI staff (in  Assisted the development of Excel-based
particular, familiarity with developing  programs for PER2 financial management system
- 66 -



Excel-based programs)                    ._|
3. Availability of experienced Accountant at  Were and will be conducive for cross fertilization of
the Central level, and                  experience between ongoing PERI and the PER2, both at
4. Availability of experienced Coordinators in the project management units at the DGF, and in the
the CDF implementing PERI               wilayate, at the CDF
Building on the strengths, the following FM weaknesses and issues have been addressed for both the
centralized and the decentralized operations.
Weaknesses                                    Resolution
1. Potentially inconsistent implementation of  Development of uniform procedures that are
the decentralized operations in the regions  incorporated in a comprehensive PIM, and encouraging
continued synergy between PERI and PER2 staff as well
as within PER2 with respect to FM activities and
practices.
PIM is designed for use by. (i) CCGP for the centralized
operations and the consolidation of information related to
decentralized operations; and (ii) by the CDF for use in
the decentralized operations at the wilayate level.
Implementation of these improvements would be closely monitored by the Bank through the quarterly
FMR and during supervision missions.
4. Project management and implementation. The project will be implemented on a decentralized basis.
DGF is responsible for the for the first four components of PER .The fifth component is the
responsibility of the DPIEE . At the center, the operations are carried out by the DGF, while in the
wilayate each CDF has that responsibility. CCGP will coordinate the activities both at the DGF and
between the DGF and each of the six CDF.
5. Financial Management and Accounting. FM functions are organized in line with the national budget
management and execution policies and procedures that are the responsibility of the DGF and each of the
six CDF. The CCGP is responsible for providing the required administrative support in the execution of
the financial operations and to comply with World Bank requirements for timely and project-specific
accounting and reporting. FM activities of the CCGP are integrated with the existing structures at the
DGF and all the six CDF. The organizational aspects are described below.
(a)    Organization of CCGP and FM of the project through the budget process. The project will be
implemented under and incorporated into the BdE. It will be subject to same the rules and regulations
that govern the management of public finances in Algeria. The financial management system at the
implementing agencies is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable
to the public sector This framework encompasses the strict enforcement procedures through formal
stages of expenditure as detailed below. At the center, the DGF and in the wilayate, each of the six CDF
will incur project expenditures, and approve payments. The BAD and its regional offices acting both as
the financial controller (Contr6leur financier) and the public treasurer (Tresorerie Publique) will be
responsible for the control of expenditures and making payments. At the center, at the DGF, the CCGP
will be responsible for accounting, record-keeping and reporting functions. The CCGP will undertake all
the required administrative functions relating to the budget at the central level at the DGF. In this
connection, the CCGP's financial management functions will be integrated with the already existing
structures at the DGF. The CCGP, at the center, will be responsible for monitoring and coordinating
- 67 -



budgeting, expenditure, financing, accounting, and financial reporting functions that are required for the
management of project activities that run through the national budget and will be directly accountable to
the General Director of the DGF. The CCGP's responsibility will involve carrying out administrative
functions relating to the budget preparation and expenditure management activities, (i) with the
Statistiques unit for allocations of the CP, and with all the CDF; and (ii) with the other related
units/officials at the DGF for expenditure management, commitments, engagement, receipts of goods and
services, liquidation. Approval for payment, ordonnancement, will be effected by the General Director of
the DGF, as the Ordonnateur Principal for budget execution purposes. the CCGP is also responsible for
consolidation of all the accounts of the project and financial reporting. In the wilayate, the functions of
the CCGP, will be carried out by the Coordinateur who be directly responsible and accountable to the
Conservateur des Forets who is in turn responsible to the General Director of the DGF (Conservateur
des Forets is the Ordonnateur Secondaire for budget execution purposes). With respect to financial
control and payment aspects, the Project Manager, at the central, and the Coordinateur, at the wilayate,
will be, respectively, responsible for coordination of those functions with the BAD in Algiers, and its
regional offices in the wilayate. In addition, in each of the six CDF, the Coordinateur will keep the
accounting and financial recording of the transactions on a contract-accounting basis similar to the one
that is already in use for the ongoing PER1. Each CDF will send a summary of contract expenditures and
the bank account records on a monthly basis to the CCGP for consolidation of all the accounts of the
project and financial reporting. Financial management of the fifth component will be carried out at the
center, at DPIEE. The CCGP and the BAD will perform the same functions for the DPIEE, as they do for
the DGF.
(b) Staffing
i.     At the centralzed level, DGF. The Accountant located at the DGF will be responsible for
preparation and of all the required fonns and their follow-up in the approval of expenditure as well as
payment steps as they relate to the national budget processes and their transmission to the BAD. The
Accountant will also provide technical support and carry out specific duties and functions with respect to
the financial management at the CDF (wilaya) level.
ii.    At the decentralized level, CDF. Specially appointed staff in the related regions will act as the
project coordinators, Coordinateurs du Projet. They are employees of the related CDF and generally
hold the position of Chef de Service Extension du Patrnmoine Forestier. They will be responsible for the
preparation of all the required forms and their follow-up in the approval of expenditure and payment
steps relating to the national budget processes and their transmission to the BAD in the regions. The
Coordinateur will also provide, on a monthly basis, the SOE and a statement of the bank account of the
related region to the Accountant at the CCGP. The Coordinateur will have functional coordination
responsibilities vis-a-vis the Project Manager.
(c)    Accounting records. Accounting records that are specific to the project will be maintained by the
financial management system that will be installed in the CCGP, along the line of the existing one for the
ongoing PER1. The records will reflect detailed transaction flows and provide summaries required for
monitoring and evaluation purposes. Quarterly FMR and the annual PFS will be prepared based on data
from those records. In addition, the records will reflect disaggregated expenditure at the decentralized
level of each of the related CDF, and provide for the required audit-trail and references to the related
SOE as well as the related national budget documents through which the expenditures were mcurred.
(d)    Physical information. Physical information on key performance indicators that can be readily
linked to financial costs will be maintained as part of the project financial management system.
6. The main elements of the PIM. Procedures for accounting and financial reporting as well as for
internal control that would respond to the specific needs of the project are incorporated in the PIM. PIM
will provide the needed information for the preparation of the project Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMR) and the Project Financial Statements (PFS). PIM will be reviewed on a regular basis in the light
- 68 -



of implementation experiences and modified as necessary. The main elements that are included in the
PIM are: (a) budget processes, and financial management and control procedures, (b) accounting
practices and methods, (c) financial management information systems, (d) financial reporting, and (e)
auditing procedures
7. Flow of accounting information. The information flows will be as follows:
(a)    The CCGP at the Central level (i.e., at the DGF, and the DPIEE), and the Project Coordinator at
the regional level (i.e., at the CDF) will generate and maintain vouchers for the initiation,
approval and payment of expenditures. They will record all the financial transactions, and will
submit to the BAD all the supporting documentation for expenditures on all project related
activities. CCGP is ultimately responsible for the management of the project financial
management information.
(b)    The Project Manager at central level and the Project Coordinator at regional level will transmit to
the BAD and its regional offices all invoices to be paid after confirming that: (i) the related
transactions were eligible for financing under the project; and (ii) the related activities were
performed in a satisfactory manner. The DEP (Direction d 'Equipement) at the BAD will also
exercise its due diligence function conferred upon it by the law.
(c)    The BAD will proceed with disbursement and replenishment of the SA after reviewing the
supporting documentation and their compliance with World Bank guidelines. Periodic (monthly
or quarterly) statements of accounts will be issued by the BAD and transrnitted to the CCGP in
order to allow a close follow-up of the disbursement operations, an adequate update of the
accounting records, and preparation of the required reconciliation statements, as necessary.
(d)    All expenditure incurred under the PER2 will be reviewed by project auditors in accordance with
the specific Terms of Reference (TOR) prepared for that purpose.
8. Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR). The FMR for the project will be generated from the
computerized financial management system on a quarterly basis. The FMR will be transmitted to the
World Bank no later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. The FMR is
management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than transactional details) and will be used for project
monitoring and implementation. The format and content of the FMR have been discussed and agreed
upon with the borrower. This will be confirmed at negotiations. The FMR will be transmitted to the Bank
within 45 days from the end of the related quarter. will. The FMR include the information relating to: (i)
Discussion of Project Progress; (ii) Sources and Uses of Funds Statement; (iii) Use of Funds by Project
Activities (supports the Sources/Uses of Funds); (iv) Physical Progress Report;- physical outputs-; (v)
Physical Progress Report; status of large works and services, and (vi) Procurement Monitoring report-
narrative and tables
9. Project Financial Statements (PFS). The PFS will include the project balance sheet, a statement of
sources and utilization of funds, a special account reconciliation statement; a statement of withdrawals,
indicating withdrawals made on the basis of statements of Expenditure (SOE).
10. Impact on procurement arrangements A procurement assessment of the implementing agencies
and procurement arrangements was undertaken by the Bank procurement staff. This included the
assessment of the ongoing PER1 and also entailed extensive training for central and local staff. There are
no critical impacts on financial management arrangements that would emanate from procurement
arrangements. The two processes are closely linked in terms of management, recording and monitoring.
2. Audit Arrangements
- 69 -



11. The PFS will be audited annually by a qualified auditor acceptable to the Bank according to
International Standards of Auditing, as issued by the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC), World Bank Guidelines (e.g., FARAH), and the specific TOR acceptable to the Bank. In
addition, expenditures incurred under Statement of Expenditures (SOE) would be audited on a
semi-annual basis as the associated risk with SOE is higher. The semi-annual SOE audit should
be sent to the Bank within six months after the end of the period covered. The MDF will
transmit to the Bank an annual audit report, including the PFS within six months after the end of
each government fiscal year. The auditor will also provide a memorandum on the internal
control weaknesses including their suggestions for the improvement in those controls and submit
that memorandum to the CCGP for follow-up and implementation.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
12. Withdrawals from the proceeds. Withdrawals from the proceeds of the loan will be based
on the World Bank's traditional disbursement methods. The disbursement methods will use
direct payments, requests for special commitments and reimbursement applications, either fully
documented or using Statement of Expenditures (SOE) as per applicable procedures, when and
where applicable. Administrative Regulation Instruction No. 21 du 25 juillet 2001 issued by the
MDF reduces the need to use a large Special Account as a method of disbursement.
"Reimbursement" will be the main disbursement method for the project. As projected by World
Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements would be completed within four months
after project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard World Bank
documentation.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
13. Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C). The allocation of loan proceeds follows the recently
established Standard Disbursement Percentages (SDP) for Algeria and excludes any charges for taxes.
VAT in Algeria is 17 percent.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
I Works                                   88.00                  80% of the amount
2. Goods                                   1.60              100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures ex-factory
(EXW);
80% of other local expenditures
3. Consultant services, training and       3.95               76% for local consultants;
workshops                                                  76% for international consultants;
100% for training abroad;
76% for local training
4. Unallocated                             0.50                   80% of the amount
5. Premium on caps and collars on the      0.00          Amount due according to Section 2.04
Variable Rate                                                   of the Loan Agreement
Total Project Costs                       94.05
Front-end fee         0.95          Amount due according to Section 2.09
(c) of the Loan Agreement
Total                                     95.00
- 70 -



The World Bank will not finance any taxes under the project.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
14. Use of statements of expenditures (SOE). All applications to withdraw proceeds from the loan will
be fully documented, except for: (i) the Initial Deposit to the Special Account; (ii) expenditures of
contracts with an estimated value of US$300,000 or less for goods; (iii) expenditures of contracts with an
estimated value of US$500,000 or less for civil works; (iv) expenditures of contracts with an estimated
value of US$100,000 or less for consulting firms; and (v) US$50,000 or less for individual consultants,
training and study tours, which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOE).
Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOE will be retained by the DGF/CCGP and the
BAD, and will be available for review when requested by Bank supervision missions and project
auditors. All disbursements will be subject to the conditions of the Loan Agreement and the procedures
defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Special account:
15. Special Account (SA). To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for goods,
services and training, the Borrower will open and maintain a SA at the Banque d'Algerie to
cover eligible project expenditures to be managed and administered by the DGF/CCGP and
DPIEE. Authorized allocation of the SA would be US$3 million to cover eligible expenditures
financed by the Loan. All eligible project expenditures of less than US$300,000 equivalent shall
be paid from the SA. The SA will be replenished through the transmission of Withdrawal
Applications. The BAD will be responsible for transmitting these periodic withdrawal
applications that will include appropriate supporting documentation for expenditures incurred,
reconciled bank statements, and other documents as may be required by the World Bank. The
BAD will retain copies and will make the documents available for review by World Bank
supervision missions and project auditors.
16. Action Plan. The timetable for implementation of the activities that should be undertaken in
relation to the financial management of the PER2 is set out below.
Action Plan
Action                        Due Date               Responsibility
1. Preparation of detailed accounting and  Already completed.    DGF/CCGP - Project Manager
financial procedures for the project, including a
Chart of Accounts, le plan comptable, as part of
the PIM; and, if needed,
A consultant will be appointed for review and  Within 3 months of the  DGF/CCGP - Project Manager
completion of the details of the document thus  project start-up.
prepared.
2. Preparation of a detailed Terms of Reference  Draft TOR have been  World Bank/ DGF
for the annual audit of the project.     prepared and will be
finalized by project
start-up..
3. Evaluation of the financial management and  Within 18 months of the  World Bank
reporting system by the World Bank.      project start-up.
- 71 -



- 72 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            01/24/2002                   01/24/2002
Appraisal mission departure                    09/27/2002                   09/26/2002
Negotiations                                   01/15/2003                   02/24/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/01/2003
Prepared by:
The Algerian Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (the General Directorate of Forestry and
the Directorate of Investment Programnming and Economic Studies), with the assistance of local
consultants, and the World Bank.
Preparation assistance:
A PHRD grant (TF050503) of US$399,800 is being utilized for project preparation studies carried out by
local consultants. The grant is managed by the General Directorate of Forestry.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Kutlu Somel                       Economist, Task Team Leader, TTL
Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough          Senior Natural Resource Management Specialist, Back-up TTL
Hocine Chalal                     Senior Environmental Specialist
Paloma Anos Casero                Social Policy Analyst, Young Professional
Nadia Gouhier                     Procurement Analyst
Tahar Hadj i                      Hydraulic Engineer (Local Consultant)
Patrice Kadjo Wadja               Economist (Consultant)
Syvie Creger                      Algeria Cluster Assistant, Language Program Assistant
Nezam Motabar                     Senior Financial Management Specialist
Dominique Bichara                 Senior Legal Counsel
Hovsep Melkonian                  Senior Financial Officer
Hassine Hedda                     Disbursement Analyst
Issam A. Abousleiman              Senior Financial Officer
Concepcion Esperanza del Castillo  Senior Social Scientist
Eugene Terry                      Peer Reviewer for the PCD, retired Bank staff
David Steel                       Peer Reviewer for the PCD, Lead Operations Officer
Nadim Khouri                      Peer Reviewer, Senior Natural Resource Management Specialist
Qaiser M. Khan                    Peer Reviewer, Senior Economist
Mohammed A. Bekhechi              Senior Legal Counsel
Ayman Abu Hajja                   Senior Financial Management Specialist, FM Quality Assurance
Usaid I. El-Hanbali               Procurement Accredited Staff
Antonio J. Cittati                Senior Procurement Specialist
- 73 -



IGhada Youness                      ISenior Legal Counsel
- 74 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan            2002      DGF
Priject Implementation Manual          2002      DGF
B. Bank Staff Assessments
PERI ex post Procurement Review        2002      WB
PER2 Procurement Assessment            2002      WB
PER2 Procurement Risk Assessment       2002'     WB
C. Other
Zone 1 Preparation report              2002      CREAD
Zone 2 Preparation Report              2002      BNEDER
Zone 2 Environmental Management Plan   2002      BNEDER
Zone 3 Preparation Report              2002      BNEDER
Zone 3 Economic analysis               2002      BNEDER
Project Economic Analysis: All zones   2002      BNEDER
Sondage preliminaire                   2002      Omar Benbekhti Conseil et Etudes
PER2 organization charts               2002      DGF/PER2
Institutional Development - MADR       2002      DPIEE
PFAP                                   2002      MADR        Version 1. Unofficial copy.
Species and varieties                  2002      DGF/CGP
PERI Impact report
o    Economic: incomes
o    Qualitative impact
o    Impact on rural women
Modalites d 'autorisation d 'usage
sur les terres relevant du
Domaine Forestier National         2001       DGF        With associated texts
Decision No. 572/BOG/IGF/DGF/01
du 28 octobre 2001 relative a l 'agrement
professionnel des entreprises       2001      IGF/DGF     With questionnaire
Plan d'Am6nagement Pastoral - Ras El Ma  2002    DGF/CDF Sidi Bel Abbes
CAS Sectoral Meeting Document Package  2002      MADR/WB
PHRD Grant proposal                    2001      IBRD
PHRD TOR                               2002      DGF
PHRD Procurement files                 2002      DGF
PNDAR Note                             2002      Consultants
Programme de reboisement               2002      DGF         For purchasing plants
Modele d'Organisation                  2002      DGF
- 75 -



PER] Tableau dynamique et
manuel d 'utilisation               2002      DGF/PER1
PER] BAD Note circulaire on 4143-AL    2000      DGF
Soil erosion model                     2002      BNEDER
Bonnes pratiques du PER]               2002      Omar Benbekhti Conseil et Etudes
*Including electronic files
- 76 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
07-Aug-2002
Dtfference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Mililons                            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA                         Cancel     Undisb.      Ong   Frm Revd
P072458       2002 DZ-TRANSPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 8 72      0 00                           0 00      8 72       2 98      0 00
P064983       2002 OZ-MORTGAGE FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSIST              5 50      0 00                           0 00      5 50       0 00      0 00
P054217       2002 DZ-FINANCIAL SYSTEM INFRASTR MODERN              16 50      0 00                           0 00     16 50       233       0 00
P067567       2001 OZ-ENERGY AND MINING TA LOAN (EMTAL)             18 00      0 00                           0 00     16 30       4 30      0 00
P064921       2001 DZ-BUDGET SYST MODERN                            23 70      0 00                           0 00     22 46      22 46      0 00
P069947       2000 DZ-TEERP                                         8346       000                            000      5815       5067       000
P070123       2000 DZ-Privalzatjon Assistance (LIL)                  5 00      0 00                           0 00      3 53       2 03      0 00
P070308       2000 DZ-Telecomgnurcabons and Postal Sector            9 00      0 00                           0 00      5 57       3 69      0 44
P042940       1998 DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING                           15000       000                            000      12515     12515      7049
P043724       1997 DZ-RURAL EMPLOYMENT                              89 00      0 00                           0 00     40 54      40 54     -0 43
P004960       1996 IND POLLUTION CTRL                               78 00      0 00                           0 00     59 70      49 47     53 37
P004907       1995 DZ-HIGHWAYS VI                                  13000       000                            000       1714      1714       868
P004974        1994 DZ-WATERSUPPLYANDSEWERAGE                      11000       000                           2810      4995       7805      -672
Total      726 88       0 00                          28 10     429 22     399 03    125 84
- 77 -



ALGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
April 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IUFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998                ABCA                           0.00    1.88    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.88    0 00    0.00
2000                AIP                            0.00    0.30     0 00    0.00    0.00     0.20    0.00    0.00
2001                ALC                            0.00    0 68     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.35    0.00    0 00
1999                Aldaph                         6.28    1.70    0.00     5.38    0 00    0.00     0 00    0 00
1992                Helios                         0.67    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.67    0.00     0 00    0.00
1998                SGA                            0.00    0.72    0 00     0.00    0.00    0.72     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         6.95     5.28     0.00    5.38     0.67    3 15     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               ALC                               4.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Comrmtment:         4.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 78 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
M. East   Lowar-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle.
Algeria    Africa   income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       30 4      296      2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (At/as method, US$)                   1,580     2.040     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                      47 9       602     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                         17        2 0       10
Labor force(%)                                         34        28        1 3   . GNI                             Gross
perprmy
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994.00)                               pie                         e roi ment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  23
Urban population (% of total population)               60         59        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       71         68       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               34         44        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             13                   11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   94         89        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15.)                   32         35        15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  108         95       114        -   Algeria
Mate                                                113        102       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              102         88       114             ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           42 3     62 0      47 6      53 3
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                 39.1     28 6      27 8      23 8
Exports of goods and services/GDP            34 3     23 4      27 9      42 4                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   43 1     27 1      314       44 2
Gross national savings/GDP                   40 8     26 2      28 2      40 6
Current account balance/GDP                   06       2 2       0 0      16 9       omestic 
Interest payments/GDP                         3 4      2 9       3 6       3 3           sInvestment
Total debt/GDP                               457      44 9      58 8      469
Total debt service/exports                   27 3     65 4      40 2      19 4
Present value of debtGDP                                        60 9
Present value of debUexports                                   218 8
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  27       1 9      3 2       24        4 2           -   Algeria
GOP per capita                      -0 3     -0 1      1 7       0 9       24                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        41       33       6 0       74        4 2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   8 5     11 4      11 4       86       30
Industry                                     577      482       504       60 3      1t
Manufacturing                              106      114         9 6       77      1n
Services                                     338      40 5      38 2      312      o0
Private consumption                          41 7     56 8      51.6      417      -1x     s    at
General government consumption               152      16 1      171       141
Imports of goods and services                30 3     24 9      24 3      220                -   0        -GOP
1980-90  1990.00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   41       36        27        -5 0    10
Industry                                      26       18        45        4.3      5
Manufacturing41                                      2           6         1      0
Services                                      30       19        17        1 7      5                       98   99    00
Private consumption                           14       0 a       29        18      -10
General government consumption                0 7      36        25        2 8     15
Gross domestic investment                    -18      -0 5       -2 1      -4 2                                 I-Ex oit  --mports
Imports of goods and services                -4 2     -0 7       1 7       70
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 79 -



Algeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1980    1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      45
Consumer prices                            10 2     16.8       2 7      0.3     30
Implicit GDP deflator                      259      303       10.4     237
Government finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                             o      9
Current revenue                            37 9     28 8      30 0     39 3    -15
Current budget balance                     20 9     11.4       5 5     17.9            -GDP deflator -     cP0
Overall surplus/deficit                    -8 4      3 6      -0 5      9 9
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ,   12,843    12,320   21,700    25,000
Natural gas                                  .   2,730     2,735    4,815
Refined product                             .    3,549     2.422    3,999     2000
Manufactures                                .      258        46       81     15.000
Total imports (cif)                      10,559   10,736     9.586    9,201     10000
Food                                     1,992   2.134     2.609     2,465      ~          F       SHF
Fuel and energy                           259      141       127      106 8      o 0.I
Capital goods                            3,324   3,092     3,155    2,983        o
Export price Index (1995=100)                       130        93                     94   95   96  97   98   99   o
Importprnceindex(1995=100)                           85        94         .               DESporis      Dimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..      154       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mililons)                             1980    1990      1999      2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            14,257   13,390    13,040   22,600     20
Imports of goods and servces             13.061   11,480    11.520   11,700     Is
Resource balance                          1,196    1,910     1,520   10,900
10 
Net Income                                -1,198  -2,090    -2.290   -2,700
Net current transfers                       243    1,530      790       800      5
Current account balance                     242    1,350       20     9.000      0 L
i 9'i  2  99   97        99   00
Financing Items (net)                      1,100  -1,620    -2,370   -1,400     4                   7
Changes In net reserves                  -1,341      270     2,350    -7,600       -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    4,022      981     4,794   12,279
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)            3.8      9 0      66.5     75.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      19,365  27,877    28,015   25,002
IBRD                                      253    1,208     1,540    1,425                   G 222 A 1.425
IDA                                         0       0         0         0                               C 1,718
Total debt service                         4,084   8,803     5,332    4,467         F: 5,872
IBRD                                       39      203       325      300
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                                  D 2,709
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            77       45         0        0
Official creditors                        322      580      -359     -521
Private creditors54                                 24     149        23
Foreign direct investment                 281      -40       460      400
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0        0                     E 13,056
World Bank program
Commitments                               210      231         0       98     A - IBRD                   E - Bilaterai
Disbursements                              39      300        68       58     B -IDA   0 - Other mulblatersl  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                       13      130       199      172     c - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                   26      170      -131     -114
Interest payments                          25       73       126      128
Net transfers                               0       97      -257     -242
Development Economics                                                                                            9/5/01
- 80 -



Additional Annex 11: Social Assessment
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
INTRODUCTION
Objectives
The social analysis undertaken for project preparation has three main objectives:
o      gathering primary data on the context of vulnerability and the social structures of the rural
populations in the project areas;
o      consulting with men and women in the project areas on their priorities and constraints;
o      providing for a "learning by doing" process for the central and field staff of the General
Directorate of Forestry (DGF) on the use of participatory and gender-sensitive approaches.
Scope
The main social issues highlighted in the social assessment summarized in this Annex include:
o      the socioeconomic situation of the population in the project areas, characterized by a high
degree of vulnerability and income and gender-based inequality;
a      the presence of specific social groups particularly vulnerable to risks;
o      the resilience and ingenuity of vulnerable groups to cope with risk, as illustrated by the wide
range of coping strategies;
o      the role of social institutions and informal rules in coping with risk;
o      the underlying causes of vulnerability and the limits to coping with risk;
o      the needs and priorities of the target groups, including women;
e      the perceptions of stakeholders about the project, and assessment of local institutional
capacities; and
o      the opportunities and constraints for effective gender integration and inclusion of vulnerable
groups.
Process and Methodology
Social analysis in the context of preparing this project has not been a Bank-led exercise. It has been an
iterative and inclusive process that has provided a framework for dialogue on development pnorities in
the project areas with key stakeholders.
The use of participatory approaches has helped analytical insights and expectations of different
stakeholders to be elicited. This approach has ensured the legitimacy of the social assessment findings
and has increased the project's responsiveness to the needs of the local population. On the other hand,
the direct involvement of the DGF field staff along with local consultants has helped strengthen local
institutional capacities on social analysis and has reinforced Borrower ownership and institutional
comnutment towards the project social development outcomes.
The composition and terms of reference of project preparation teams both at the Bank and at the country
- 81 -



level have reflected the clear mandate to integrate gender concerns in the overall project design. The
presence of women in the teams responsible for field work has ensured an adequate participation by
different groups of women in the social analysis process.
The social analysis has employed a combination of quantitative and qualitative research methods and
sought input from a wide range of stakeholders. Methods included: household surveys, focus group
discussions and in-depth interviews with key-informants and beneficiaries during field trips (for further
details on the methodological framework used in the SA, including the sampling criteria of the
communities and individuals interviewed in each of the project areas, please see Project Files). It entailed
the following activities:
o      Organizing an introductory workshop on participatory approaches for DGF field staff.
This activity was conducted by a team of local consultants and DGF staff who were trained
under the on-going Rural Employment Project (PERI).
o      Conducting a preliminary field survey (sondage preliminaire) coordinated by a
multidisciplinary team of local consultants. Instead of hiring external survey staff to conduct
the survey, DGF field staff were mobilized from among those who will be involved in the
implementation of the current project and from PER1.
o      Organizing a two-day information-sharing workshop to present the results of the
preliminary survey to the stakeholders concerned. This activity was carried out by the local
consultants and the DGF staff involved in the preliminary field survey.
o      Conducting a detailed social assessment for each of the project areas. This activity was
carried out by local consultants in close collaboration with the DGF field staff
o      Conducting complementary sociological appraisal in the context of field trips organized
during the project pre-appraisal mnssion. This activity was conducted by the Bank in close
collaboration with the project team and local consultants.
This annex summarizes the main findings of the social analysis produced during project preparation.
VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS
The Context of Vulnerability
Overview of the project areas
The target group is the population in specific communes in the mountainous areas of the wilayate of
Tiaret, Tissemsilt, Chlef, Ain Defla, Medea and Bouira. The project zones extend eastward from the
ongoing Rural Employment Project (Loan 4143-AL) in Northwest Algeria towards the north-center of
the country. Specifically, the project zones are:
o      Zone 1: Monts de Gargar and Monts de Frenda (watershed of the Mina river) in the wilaya of
Tiaret and Monts de l'Ouarsenis Sud in the wilaya of Tissemsilt;
o      Zone 2: Monts de Dahra and Monts de l'Ouarsenis occidental in the wilaya of Chlef and
Monts de l'Ouarsenis Nord in the wilaya of Amn Defla;
o      Zone 3: Monts du Titteri occidental and Monts du Sersou in the wilaya of Medea and Monts
du Titteri oriental in the wilaya of Bouira.
-82 -



Population Distribution in the Project Areas
Wilaya    Perimetres Communes Menages ruraux   Population Superficie (ha)
Tiaret            2         12           7,395   149,343       211,983
Tissemsilt        2         14           4,149   156,855       300,213
Zone 1            4         26           11,544  306,198       512,196
Chlef             3         22           16,655  412,217       276,565
Ain Defla         2         11           5,525    89,516       182,364
Zone 2            5         33          22,180   501,733       458,929
Bouira            2         11           17,092   111,330      165,095
Medea             3         22          40,868   287,079       290,962
Zone 3            5         33          57,960   398,409       456,057
Total            14         92          91,684  1,206,340     1,427,182
Source: PER2 preliminary field survey (sondage
prelzminaire) and social
assessments included in the project preparation studies
(2002)
Degree of vulnerability
The project zone is characterized by isolated mountainous areas with sloped and vulnerable lands. The
prevailing production system is characterized by an agro-pastoral economy based on a poor resource base
and extensive ovine production, which has led to high degree of erosion due to severe droughts,
under-exploited water resources and over-exploitation of the natural resource base.
The project targets rural areas which have high incidence of poverty. The population in the project zones
are impoverished due to a low asset base, low education, high levels of unemployment, and low incomes.
The lack of income opportunities has reflected in high rural exodus exacerbated by the conjunctural
situation over the past ten years
Inequality in income and land distribution
The project areas are characterized by an uneven distribution of agncultural income which is strongly
correlated with the size of land-holdings. The main explanation for these findings lies in the highly
uneven distribution of land in the project areas. While land holdings are becoming smaller in each
generation because of land fragmentation caused by inheritance, a small percentage of farmers own large
land holdings. Thus, the inequity in land tenure is reflected in large inequities in income distnbution. In
one of the project zones, for instance, the values of the Gini coefficient are above 0.50, displaying high
inequality levels in land distribution (cf. social assessment for Zone 2, wilayate of Tiaret and Tissemsilt).
The social analysis has also revealed gender inequities in land ownership. Agricultural holdings are
rarely managed by women. Even if women's inheritance of land property rights is guaranteed by religion
and by law, it is often the male relatives who manage the holdings on their behalf.
Overview of key socioeconomic indicators disaggregated by gender
The information presented in this section is based on the SA sample.
- 83 -



Migration patterns. Most of the households have resided in the project areas for more than twenty years.
However, due to the conjunctural situation, some families migrated from other zones of the project and
re-settled in the project areas.
Unemployment rates. Based on official data, unemployment in the project zones ranges from 43 - 60
percent and averages 50 percent (national unemployment rate is 30 percent). Gender imbalances are
reflected in unemployment rates for men and women. According to the estimates of the social survey
(sondage preliminaire) male unemployment in the project areas averages 40 percent whereas female
unemployment rates are above 50 percent.
Over 10 percent of households are headed by women. The relatively high number of women widows and
heads of households in the project area is explained by the conjunctural situation. Seventy-seven percent
of women-headed households declare to be unemployed as compared to 73 percent of men-headed
households who declare to be employed.
Poverty rates. According to estimates of the preliminary field survey, four out of five households have
income levels below the poverty line (corresponding to the monthly income bracket that ranges from
3000 to 7000 Dinars). Approximately 50 percent of the households in the project areas have a monthly
income between 3000-7000 Dinars.
Households headed by women tend to be poorer than those headed by men. Almost 74 percent of
women-headed households have income levels below the poverty line. These gender differences in rural
poverty are explained by a combination of socioeconomic and cultural factors, namely: the conjunctural
situation leading to a relatively high number of widows, inequalities in land distribution, low levels of
education and restrained access to the labor market.
Household size, composition andpoverty. The average household size is 13 persons (the national
average is 6 persons). The social assessment revealed mixed results regarding the relationship between
household size and poverty. Large households with high dependency ratios tend to be poorer than smaller
ones, as they have fewer resources per capita. Women-headed households in the project areas are usually
poorer than male-headed households, and yet, their size is smaller. Differences in household size
combined with differences in age structure within the household help explain some of the differences in
poverty levels amnong households. Households with a lower number of working members possess less
available labor, and thus, less sources of income.
Education levels. The population in the project areas is characterized by high illiteracy rates, reaching 42
percent among men and 64 percent among women (national average is 31 percent). Gender gaps in
education are by and large a consequence of gender-ascribed domestic roles compounded by the
conjunctural situation. The rate of schooling (completion of primary education) is 61 percent for girls
and 75 percent for boys. Girls' education seems to be affected by parental choice, whereas in the case of
boys that decision tends to be left to the boys' discretion.
Access to social services and infrastructure. The relative isolation of the population in the project areas
(more than 20 km from the closest urban area - chef de lieu) impinge on their ability to access social
services, and health services in particular. The rate of maternal mortality is quite high mainly due to the
lack of access to adequate maternal care and preventive health services. Although most of the households
in the project areas are connected to the electricity network, they do not have telephone lines and lack
access to telecommunications networks. Poor rural and transport infrastructure further aggravates their
- 84 -



degree of isolation and lack of access to information.
Access to credit. Formal sources of credit are too costly for or unavailable to the rural poor. Poor small
farmers lack access to conimercial bank credit largely because most small farmers lack deeds to their
property and are unable to use land as a collateral. Public sector rural credit programs, even though they
are subsidized, benefit the relatively wealthy more than the poor.
IDENTIFICATION OF VULNERABLE GROUPS IN THE PROJECT AREAS
The social analysis undertaken during project preparation has identified the following vulnerable groups:
o  Agro-pastoralistfarmers with a low asset base. This category of farmers includes owners of small
landholdings, owners of land under joint property rights (indivision), tenants on marginal lands, and
users of small landholdings without deeds of property (e.g., EAC and EAI farmers). These farmers
manage to survive with the cultivation of low-risk crops (cereal culture) and livestock production.
They tend to share the following features:
o  small crop areas (1.5-10 ha),
o  small herd size (10-20 heads), mostly sheep and goats, which can manage on degraded pastures
better than cattle and can be more readily moved;
o  limited labor force, normally the members of the household, used intensively on and off the farm
(since these farmers cannot sustain themselves on the small parcels of land they own or cultivate,
they provide labor to others for both farm and nonfarm activities inside and outside their villages;
some members of these households migrate to towns or cities on either a rotational or a long-term
basis);
o  lack of access to commercial bank credit, particularly for those farmers without deeds to their
property as it precludes them to use land as collateral for accessing credit, or sell it in the event
of shocks;
o  lack of motorized means of transport;
o  lack of irrigated land (often resorting to water tank rental;
o  lack of water points in the proximity of the agricultural land); and
o  lack of a tractor, and reliance on small-scale animal traction, often using a single donkey and a
cart. This reflects the risk-averse behavior of the rural poor who are likely to opt for cheap,
easy-to-maintain and "divisible" investments allowing for eventual liquidation as unexpected
shocks unfold.
* Rural landless. They are unskilled workers who do not have access to land. These workers depend
on seasonal demand for labor in agriculture and in rural informal, small-scale industries and services.
The landless rural workers are vulnerable to fluctuations in the demand for labor, wage rates, and
food pnces.
*  Displaced agro-pastoralistfamilies who, due to the difficult situation which has caused exodus from
rural areas, have had to search better living conditions in other douars of the project areas.
* Young unemployed with low educational status, who suffer from high income instability due to their
reliance on casual labor contracts and often have no choice but to abandon rural areas to move
towards urban zones.
* Women from low-income households. Within this category, three main groups of women seem to be
particularly vulnerable:
o Women-headed households, particularly widows: Women-headed households tend to be smaller
than male-headed households, and thus, possess less available labor for farmn work.
o Married women: their ascribed gender role of food and care providers combined with demands
for family labor in the farm household economy results in heavy workloads and severe time
- 85 -



constraints.
o Young girls whose low educational status constrains their access to labor market opportunities
Underlying Causes of Vulnerability
Vulnerable groups in the project areas face manifold risks, so variations in income and consumption
levels can occur for a variety of reasons. Furthermore, not only are risks higher in poor rural economies,
but poor households are less able to cope with risk. The main sources of risk are described below.
O    Harvest failures due to environmental hazards, such as severe droughts; combined damages to
crops by insects and wild animals; strong and/or hot winds, etc.
o    Sudden asset losses (livestock illness or death) reducing the household's ability to cope with
shocks.
o    High unemployment risks due to reliance on self-employment and casual labor contracts. The
frequency with which rural young unemployed move in and out of a job is very high, and so is
the potential for income instability.
o    High illness risks as a result of the relative isolation of the targeted communities and their lack
of access to adequate health services.
O    Low educational status and lack offinancial assets which also make it difficult to absorb
shocks from crop failures and employment loss.
O    Market risks, asymmetric price information and lack of crop insurance choices, leading
risk-averse farmers to opt for low risk crop choices (cereals, which are subsidized) and
livestock production (relatively easy to liquidate as shocks unfold). These risks limit
agricultural diversification which otherwise would help increase and stabilize farmers' income
and consumption flows.
o    Undercapitalized and under-equipped production systems, which constrains productivity
increases and diversification.
o    Lack of security of tenure and lack of land titles, causing inefficient and unsustainable
exploitation of natural resources, and constraining small farmers from access to commercial
bank credit (due to lack of collateral). As a result, social tensions arise due to conflicting
claims over natural resources (e.g., grazing lands).
o    The conjunctural situation which has led many agro-pastoralist families to leave everything
behind and start their lives again in more secure areas.
o    Lack of access to information and lack ofconnections with the local administration. There is
a tendency for the local administration in rural areas to focus on the larger private farmers and
former technocrats who have a similar educational and employment background, to the neglect
of small farmers.
Coping Strategies of Vulnerable Groups
The vulnerable groups in the project areas have developed a variety of strategies for dealing with risks
associated with the arid environment, either seeking to stabilize income and consumption flows directly
or relying on the accumulation of assets. Yet, these strategies do not always work. A good understanding
of the limits to coping with risk will help enhance the complementarity of the project interventions and
the livelihood strategies adopted by the targeted beneficiaries.
Income source diversification. Most of the vulnerable groups in rural areas cope with risk by asset
portfolio diversification. The prevailing production system is an agro-pastoral system characterized by a
cereal-livestock based mixed fanming, combining barley for feed and some wheat, and livestock
- 86 -



production (sheep and goats, and to a lesser extent, small livestock). Yet, depending on climatic
conditions and the availability of irrigated land, vulnerable farmers adopt crop diversification strategies.
Crop diversification strategies. Inter-cropping, that is, planting several crops in the same field (cereals,
fruit trees, horticulture, etc.) is justified by risk considerations as it allows for increased flexibility to deal
with shocks as they unfold. If a high yielding but more demanding crop fails due to a drought, more
attention can be diverted to a drought-resistant one. The project will need to be responsive to the local
preferences of the beneficiaries as regards to the right mix of extensive and intensive uses of land and the
optimal combination of plant species that will help them better cope with risks.
Cultivation of small plots in public and marginal lands. Another strategy to diversify production is to
cultivate small plots located in public lands under state-guaranteed usufruct rights (agricultural
concession programs; usage authorization permits issued by the DGF; land concessions allocated by the
commune, etc.). There are also marginal lands that due to their inferior quality, are not exploited by their
owners, and are either rented out to poor farmers in the project areas or used defacto as grazing lands by
agro-pastoralists.
Nonfarm income. Poor farmers provide part of family labor to larger farm holders to obtain additional
income while other family members work on their own small holdings.
Migration. Seasonal, temporary or even permanent migration is a strategy often used by the young
unemployed in the project areas. Migration is the only alternative that many families have in areas where
there is a lack of agricultural activities or the conjunctural situation poses problems.
Reliance on self-employment in the informal sector and casual labor contracts is a strategy often
adopted by the young unemployed in project areas. Due to low levels of education and a rigid labor
market, employment is in activities which require little investment and few skills.
Food productionfor family consumption. The relative isolation of rural vulnerable households leave
them with little choice but producing much of the food they consume. Women-headed households in the
project areas are particularly dependent on food production for family consumption. Yet, this is not the
only strategy through which rural households ensure their food security. Additional coping mechanisms
need to be put in place, often recumng to family labor mobilization.
Precautionary saving by accumulating nonfinancial assets. As saving in formaUinformal financial
institutions is infeasible for the Algerian rural poor, they tend to save in real assets. Livestock provides a
form of insurance because it is a relatively liquid asset which can be used to meet consumption shortfalls.
Selling other assets, such as jewelry, is also a coping strategy to obtain additional cash to cover
consumption or farm-related investment needs.
The project aims at facilitating the accumulation of productive assets (trees, small livestock, wells, etc.)
which will increase the chances of the vulnerable households in the target areas to cope with risks.
The Role of Social Institutions in Coping with Risk
In the absence of formal risk-sharing mechanisms, the rural poor develop long-term relationships and kin
networks that help them in coping with risk. The social assessment provides good insights about the role
of the household and the douar as effective risk-sharing institutions.
- 87 -



The household
Farming in small land holdings depend largely on the availability of family labor. Small holdings are
family enterprises. Consequently, the logic that drives family labor use is a function of farm household
welfare, based on considerations such as risk distribution, opportunity costs and labor demand.
The size and composition of households partly reflect the risk environment surrounding them. Certain
features revealed in the social assessment deserve to be mentioned:
o    Large size of households, seven members on average, often including several nuclear
households.
o    Large households often keeping a single kitchen which enables returns to scale in food
preparation and also ensures that food is shared among all members.
o    Family labor mobilization as a risk-sharing mechanism. Even though members of large
households often manage certain activities individually, internal household mechanisms are
present that ensure the pooling of labor resources for vital household chores such as food
production.
Customary and social norms emphasize the special responsibility of women (mothers and daughters) as
care givers, providing food and care to the other members of the household. In addition to their domestic
responsibilities, women have a clear productive role in the farm household economy, although often it
takes non-market, non-monetized forms.
The social analysis undertaken during project preparation has challenged the generalized assumption
about the lack of women's control of over the conduct of their own lives in rural areas of the country. It
has revealed that Algerian rural women have many ways to put their individual capabilities into use in
the pursuit of the livelihood of their families. Yet, it has also shed light on the limits to their ability to
cope, as reflected in women's heavy workloads and severe time constraints. This is compounded by
limited access to assets and control over resource use which tend to remain within the male sphere.
The project will need to take into consideration the implications of project interventions in terms of
workload and time requirements for all the members of the targeted households, particularly for women
and children.
Kinship and tribal solidarity
The douar, generally bringing together households belonging to the same arch (tribal affiliation) orfirqa
(fraction of an arch) is the basic building block of the social organization in rural Algeria. The social
assessment has revealed a changing social structure in the rural communities targeted by the project that
needs to be adequately understood and taken into consideration during project implementation.
Economic pressures and forced displacements due to conjunctural conditions have led to a weakened
tribal social structure in the project areas. As a consequence, the traditional power of the tribal elites has
also weakened. For instance, when asked about their arch leadership, over ninety percent of the SA
respondents could not identify the leader of their arch. The increasing reliance on individual coping
strategies, such as individual wage-based employment and migration, has diluted the traditional
mechanisms of tribal solidarity (e.g., touiza - traditional pooling of labor and resources in rural areas) and
has weakened traditional forms of political representation (e.g., k'bar edouar - elders, djamaa -
committee of notables). For instance, when asked which would be the most adequate institutional
arrangement to ensure that their interests are best represented during project implementation, the majority
of the respondents answered that they preferred to choose a member of their community to act as their
- 88 -



interlocutor, rather than rely on the djamaa of the douar, or on the elected members of the APC.
In spite of the relative weakening of the traditional forms of tribal leadership, the douar continues to play
a key role in risk-sharing. Members of the same douar form strong kin networks that help in risk-sharing
and bring about clear returns to the group. For instance, as some members may enjoy higher education
status than the rest, they can link up more easily with the local authorities and get access to information
valuable to the other members (e.g., agricultural support measures available to small farmers).
In some douar, however, the recent arrival of agro-pastoralist families who have been displaced due to
the conjunctural situation, has given rise to conflicts with the families traditionally in the douar due to
competing claims over access rights to resources, such as grazing lands. These conflicts are generally
solved amicably through dialogue.
Understanding the internal dynamics of the douar has direct operational implications for the project. For
instance, the project requires water user associations (WUA) as a requirement to finance the construction
of small hill dams. Yet, the WUA can manage and co-finance O&M costs of the small hill dams only if
explicit external enforceable contracts (such as the legal cahier de charges of the WUA) are combined
with implicit risk-sharing and enforcement mechanisms to minimize commitment failure.
If the members of a relatively cohesive douar decide to form a WUA, the project can support their
initiative with adequate training aimed at strengthening their technical and organizational skills. This will
increase the likelihood of project sustainability in the field of water management.
Further research is needed to gain a better understanding of the social dynamics at the family and douar
level along with the linkages among formal and informal institutions. This will have a direct implication
on the participatory mechanisms that will be adopted in project execution. Consequently this issue will
need to be investigated in-depth through specially designed social impact assessments.
The Role of Informal Institutions in Coping with Risk
Informal rules governing land tenure and use patterns
Socio-historical factors in Algeria have led to a complex land tenure system characterized by the
coexistence of a variety of land ownership and use patterns. The main types of rights over land in Algeria
are: (i) farms with concessions on the public domain lands; (ii) individual farms (EAl) and collective
farms (EAC) with usufruct rights, formed after the dissolution of the state farms (former DAS); (iii)
traditional private sector holdings (melk); and (iv) public lands in the steppes with tribes having
customary usage rights.
In this context, the project will face two issues:
o  There are customary rights over lands (commons) for grazing livestock. This traditional
arrangement used to be effective in balancing natural resources availability and herd size.
However, increased demand for livestock production and agricultural support policies aiming at
encouraging import substitution have led to an unsustainable situation whereby increasing herd
sizes do not adjust to the forage production needs, varying according to local climatic conditions.
This has led to an unsustainable and inefficient exploitation of natural resources.
o  Some farms (e.g., EAC and EAI) do not possess official land titles. Others own land under joint
property nghts (indivision). As a result, these farmers cannot or find it difficult to liquidate land
- 89 -



to deal with severe shocks. They are also reluctant to make long-term investments as they lack
the protection of property rights and access to commercial bank credits (unable to use land as a
collateral).
Both issues are related to the complexities of the land tenure system in Algeria. They reflect a structural
problem that requires longer term policy and legal reforms that fall outside the mandate of the current
project. However, project interventions will help alleviate farmer conditions by providing them with
productive assets. The generation of additional income from the exploitation of productive assets
financed by the project will help farmers break their vulnerability trap and promote further investments in
their lands.
On the other hand, the project will need to balance out the short-term needs of the agro-pastoralist
farmers claiming customary rights for grazing lands and the longer-term environmental concems of
sustainable natural resource management.
Informal marketing channels
Formal state-owned marketing channels serve the basic food staples sector. Vulnerable farmers in the
project areas use informal marketing channels for three main purposes: (i) to sell their produce (fruits and
vegetable production) and livestock, (ii) to manage the risks of potential price fluctuations; and (iii) to
exchange market information on volumes and prices. Informal marketing channels may include selling
the produce directly to other farmers or to private wholesalers. The informal marketing channels most
commonly used by vulnerable farmers consist of:
o   Selling their produce directly in the nearest souk (the traditional local market). This option
requires that the farmers have a truck or rent a truck usually with other farmers. Animals are
normally sold on local markets by farmers (in the case of sheep and goats) and sometimes by
their children (small livestock). Women are not involved in direct marketing activities.
o   Selling produce to local merchants on the basis of informal contract farming arrangements.
Some farners, who lack sufficient labor to undertake the harvesting themselves, do not possess
means of transport, or are reluctant to assume direct marketing costs and risks, often resort to
informal contract farming arrangements with urban traders who agree to purchase all their
output. The crop itself serves as collateral and there is no payment in case of crop failure. The
harvesting, conditioning, storage and transport of the produce to the market is undertaken by the
contractor.
Another challenge that vulnerable farmers face in marketing their produce is the relative competitiveness
of the produce of their small farms, both in terms of volume and quality, compared to large holdings,
particularly in the irrigated valleys. The project will provide technical training to small farmers to ensure
product quality.
STAKEHOLDER AND IINSTIETUTIONAL ANALYSIS
Stakeholder analysis sheds light on local priorities and expectations about the project along with the
potentialities and constraints to the effective participation of the vulnerable groups in the project area.
The institutional analysis reveals institutional capacity issues, the level of trust in local institutions and
political economy issues of relevance to the current project. A summary of the main SA findings and
their implications for the project design is outlined below.
Institutional stakeholders
- 90 -



The Ministry ofAgriculture and Rural Development (MADR)
Social assessment revealed a variable degree of coordination in the local forestry, water and agricultural
administrations in the project areas. The recent change in the Ministry title (formerly Ministry of
Agriculture) reflects an increased commitment to broad based rural development. This has translated in a
specific demand to the Bank project team to help them to develop synergy between the CDF, DSA and
DHW.
On the other hand, the interviews with farmers point to the need to improve coordination between the
water and agricultural services, particularly in interventions such as water resource mobilization and
irrigation. In this regard, the project plan to devote significant resources to support the decentralized rural
administration, including training programs on participatory approaches in the design, planning and
monitoring of field activities.
The implementing agency: the General Directorate of Forestry (DGF)
The project objectives are among the priority areas of the national program of the DGF. From the
inception of the Project, the DGF set up a project management team at Headquarters whose members
have participated actively in project preparation. The multidisciplinary nature of the team composition
also reflects the DGF's commitment to the achieve project objectives: a male forestry engineer (project
team manager) and three women: a sociologist, an economist and an accountant. Project organization and
management will be finalized at appraisal, including job descriptions, work program and training needs
of the members of the project management unit.
DGF staff at the local level (CDF) have developed distinct relationships with two types of rural clientele:
the peasantry (small farmers and rural landless) and the owners of the large holdings. The latter are well
connected with the local administration which allows them to benefit from substantial support from state
financing mechanisms aiming at promoting agricultural development, such as the FNRDA. Agricultural
and forestry staff have a tendency to focus on the larger traditional private farmers and former
technocrats who have a similar educational and employment background, to the neglect of small farmers.
In order to ensure that the project reaches out the intended beneficiaries, specific targeting criteria have
been incorporated in the project design and will be part of the project implementation manual. The
current project has the advantage of flexibility and adaptability to reach vulnerable groups in rural areas.
The use of a double approach to beneficiary targeting (self-targeting mechanisms and direct targeting by
the DGF staff) will minimize the risks of elite capture of project benefits and allow vulnerable groups to
be the main beneficiaries of project interventions.
The participation of some DGF field agents in training on participatory approaches already during project
preparation and their direct involvement in the preliminary survey has been very beneficial. In a wrap-up
workshop, the DGF field staff, who were directly involved in the survey, presented the results and
showed their enthusiasm and commitment to participate in the implementation of the current project. All
DGF field agents who will be involved in project implementation will receive training on participatory
and gender-sensitive approaches that will help them build effective partnerships with the project
beneficiaries.
The degree of decentralization of the DGF at the local level, the personal commitment of the CDF and
the dynamism of the DGF field agents are critical elements in project implementation. However, the
social assessment points to the need to ensure a sufficient number of women among front-line staff. The
- 91 -



lack of adequate female staffing at the local level would constrain the ability of DGF field staff to
identify and respond to the specific demands of women in the project areas. Project management will
need to evaluate the needs in terms of female staffing to ensure adequate women's participation in
project interventions.
The local authorities
The local authorities have shown a high degree of receptivity and enthusiasm towards project objectives.
In some communes the local mayors have even proposed the local communities to use state-financed
buildings to facilitate the creation of women's groups activities. However, in some communes, local
authorities see the project as a political instrument and promise more to their constituents than the project
can deliver. This builds up unrealistic expectations. There is thus the need for effective participatory
approaches to communicate to the local authorities and to the population concerned what the project can
and will do to respond to the needs and priorities of the beneficiaries.
The social assessment indicates the mistrust of displaced families recently resettled in a commune
vis-a-vis the local elected authorities, as the priorities of the newcomers differ from the priorities of the
families who have lived in the commune for a long time. Inclusive approaches to be applied in project
implementation will ensure that the members of vulnerable families, including displaced families, benefit
from the project interventions.
Furthermore, the social assessment indicated low levels of trust of the rural poor vis-a-vis the local
adnuistration. When asked which local institution could serve as interface between them and the project
field staff, the elected members of the APC, the traditional djemaa - comite de notables, or community
members voluntarily chosen by the beneficiaries themselves, over 50 percent of the respondents preferred
the last option. This proposal will be taken into account in the project participation framework and
implementation arrangements.
Small and medium enterprises (SME)
The project encourages private sector development through the implementation of project activities by
SME. Yet, the project may face two challenges to the promotion of SME participation:
o    The conjunctural situation may lead to limited SME participation in forestry activities in some
of the project areas, as was the case with the ongoing Rural Employment Project. The situation
in the current project is less severe and the project will encourage SME participation in
silvicultural and plantation activities.
o    Capacity risks: problems related to the limited local SME capacity in bidding for works and
services procurement.
The current project will manage these risks by adopting the successful approach of the ongoing Rural
Employment project. With competitive market-based procurement procedures that keep critical
thresholds for prior review low and emphasize the use of small lots, the project will allow SME with
limited means to participate competitively for works.
Associations
The social assessment has revealed the presence of some local associations in the project areas. Due to
the conjunctural situation, the lack of financial resources and the lack of institutional capacity, these
-92 -



associations are still embryonic. The project will promote the strengthening of local organizational
capabilities by providing training and support to beneficiary groups based on common interests, such as
water user associations.
During the early stages of project implementation, project management and field teams will need to pay
particular attention to the identification of existing women's groups interested in providing training on
areas of relevance to the project interventions. Community-selected women will serve as
resource-persons to interface between the women's groups and DGF field staff.
Beneficiary Assessment: Priorities and Constraints
The social analysis sheds light on the needs, priorities and constraints of the vulnerable groups in the
project areas. A brief description of the main SA findings as they relate to specific project components is
summarized below.
Farmers with a low asset base
The prevailing production system is a mixed crop-livestock farming system. Agro-pastoralist farmers in
the project area use public lands as commons for grazing livestock. This has direct implications for the
erosion control measures on public lands. In order to meet the demands of the local farmers while at the
same time promoting sustainable natural resource management, the project will follow the successful
approach of the ongoing Rural Employment project: the preparation of pastoral management plans in
consultation with the agro-pastoralist farmers concemed.
Rural roads are highly demanded due to the degree of isolation and remoteness that vulnerable farmers
face in the project areas.
Agricultural development activities, such as fruit trees, have also been demanded by the farmers.
Agro-pastoralist farmers are interested in fruit trees insofar as they complement their current crop
portfolio. However, they are not interested in totally replacing the cereal crops with fruit trees. This
risk-averse behavior is explained by the farmers' need to adapt their crop portfolio to the arid
environment as the lack of water availability would pose risks for the fruit tree production. In this regard,
the project will support a gradual introduction of fruit tree production into the farmers' portfolio. The
types of fruit trees will take into account farmers' preferences and the adaptability to local agro-climatic
conditions.
Water resource mobilization and irrigation equipment are high priorities for local farmers. Capturing and
managing existing water resources will help farmers better cope with risks arising from variable
agro-climatic conditions. Irrigation will allow more diversified agricultural production.
Farmers also request technical training on water-saving techniques (e.g., drip irrigation), agricultural
production (e.g., pruning, grafting) and animal and plant care.
The rural landless
The rural landless interviewed are interested in benefiting from the long-term land concessions provided
under the PNDAR. In this regard, their interest in the current project relates to financing complementary
interventions aiming at generating additional income, such as irrigation, agricultural development
activities and related technical training.
- 93 -



Theyoung unemployed
The demands of the young unemployed in the project area vary according to their socioeconomic status.
The young who have completed secondary education search for paid jobs in the formal sector (industry,
services) and wish a different lifestyle that the one prevailing in the douar where they live. The young
unemployed with low education levels (who have only completed primary school) search for casual jobs
that do not require specialized skills. The young co-owners of small plots are more interested in
agricultural development activities.
The project aims at reducing youth unemployment through a double approach: through direct job creation
measures, such as anti-erosion activities which are highly labor-intensive, and indirect job-creation
through agricultural development activities.
Women
Women in the project zones comprise a heterogeneous group and their needs vary according to
socioeconomic status, age, ascribed roles in the household, and the specific socio-cultural context where
they live.
Married women and women-headed households request activities that will have an impact on family
income, regardless of the impact on their individual income and regardless of whether it is they or other
members of the household who will carry out the activity. The demands of married women and
women-heads of households relate to agricultural development activities that generate income: fruit tree
plantations (for those who already cultivate small crop areas), small livestock production (poultry,
beekeeping).
Water resource mobilization is likely to lead to positive social and gender benefits to the targeted
households: increased health due to increased availability of clean potable water and time-saving effects
on women.
The young girls are more interested in participating in training programs (technical training; training on
family health and hygiene) and in group activities with other young girls, such as sewing, embroidery,
agro-processing activities.
Men interviewed in the project areas do not object the participation of their wives and daughters in the
project. However, the willingness of men to allow women to carry out income-generating activities
outside the household depends on the economic situation of the household and the socio-cultural context.
In douars characterized by a relative degree of isolation and a strong traditional patriarchal system,
ascribed gender roles for women within the household preclude them from carrying out activities outside
the household.
In order to ensure meaningful participation of women in project activities, at the individual and group
level, the project will need to promote adequate gender staffing at the management and at the field level
and provide for gender sensitivity training of male and female field agents.
OPERATIONAL IMPLICATIONS
Guiding Principles for Project Design
The core principles in the preparation and implementation of the project are that: (i) men and women
- 94 -



from vulnerable groups in the targeted communities have the opportunity to participate in the process of
planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of the project; and (ii) individuals and
communities in the project areas are not adversely affected by project interventions.
Expected Social Development Outcomes
The project is expected to generate positive social development outcomes by:
*    increasing access to productive assets and employment opportunities by vulnerable groups in
the project areas, in particular farmers with a low asset base, the rural landless, women from
low-income households and the young unemployed;
*    reducing exposure of the target population to natural, economic and social risks;
*    increasing the capabilities, at the individual and organizational level, of beneficiary
communities, local SME and the DGF staff;
*    bringing the administration closer to the target population and providing channels for increased
voice and participation of vulnerable groups; and
o    addressing gender disparities by promoting women's access to productive resources and
training and by improving their organizational capabilities.
Social Inclusion and Gender Framework: Conceptual Design and Implementation Arrangements
Beneficiary targeting approach
The project design will ensure the inclusion of vulnerable groups by adopting a careful targeting
approach that combines:
*  Self-targeting, by requiring beneficiary contribution to the project in the form of labor input.
One of the lessons learnt in the on-going Rural Employment Project is that poor farmers are
willing to offer family labor as part of investments in productive assets financed by the project;
and
*  Direct targeting of vulnerable groups by the DGF staff, on the basis of observation of the
beneficiary's assets and livelihood strategies (the section above on the identification of
vulnerable groups provides an indicative list of targeting criteria).
Gender integration approach
In the project design, the approach to address gender imbalances combines:
*  Integrating gender concerns in all project activities, by identifying the different needs,
priorities and constraints articulated by men and women; and
e  Targeting specific income-generating activities to different groups of women, according to
their own demands.
Project activities aim pnmarily at addressing the practical needs of women which relate to their
traditional gender roles and responsibilities as ascribed by the socio-cultural context where they live. The
project's scope to tackle women's strategic needs is limited as they relate to more structural factors that
may limit women's access to resources.
Implementation Arrangements
- 95 -



Within the project's mandate, the project management team will ensure that project implementation:
o  provides equality of opportunity for women and men to benefit equitably from project activities;
o  takes into account the implications of project activities in terms of labor and time in balance with
existing activities, particularly for women;
o  takes into account requirements of family members of households benefiting from the project;
o  strengthens local organizational capabilities, particularly of women's groups; and
o  facilitates adequate communication channels to ensure increased women's voice and
participation.
During project implementation, provisions will be made for gender-sensitive training of the DGF staff,
both female and male. The project will ensure adequate female staffing at the central project management
and field levels. The specific tasks and responsibilities of forestry staff involved in project management,
implementation and will include participatory and gender-sensitive approaches and dimensions.
Participation Framework and llmplementation Arrangements
The following mechanisms will ensure a continuous flow of infornation to encourage the informed
participation of beneficiaries and other key stakeholders in the project activities:
Project Component          Participation mechlansm
Erosion control:           Preparation of pastoral management plans in consultation with
agro-pastoralists; consultation with the riparians about the type of
species; development of a technical training program based on
continuous evaluation of riparians' needs.
Agricultural Development:  Consultation with beneficiary communities on the selection of sites and
species, water needs;
development of a technical training program according to the needs
expressed by the beneficiaries.
Water Resource Mobilization: Consultation with the beneficiaries about the sites and the type of water
resource mobilization and the financing modalities; training on technical
and organizational capacity aspects according to the specific needs of the
WUA.
Men and women selected by the communities will serve as the interface between the target groups and
the DGF field staff. Local associations can also act as facilitators provided that the beneficiaries trust and
respect them.
During project implementation, provisions will be made to organize training in participatory approaches
to DGF field staff, and capacity-building programs to strengthen the local organizational capabilities
(e.g., women's groups).
Social Impact Monitoring Framework and Implementation Arrangements
Social impact monitoring will be an integral part of the project.
- 96 -



A baseline survey will be carried out at the early stages of project implementation against which social
monitoring activities will be built. Specific social impact assessments will also be part of the M&E
process, and will be undertaken by independent social researchers to ensure objectivity and scientific
quality.
Social M&E will be used as a participatory management tool during project implementation, to ensure
adequate response to the issues arising from social impact monitoring activities. The project will adopt a
flexible and incremental approach to project management, to ensure that the needs of various social
groups, particularly the most vulnerable, are heard and responded to. The adoption of participatory
approaches in project management and monitoring will help strengthen the linkages between formal and
informal institutions as the forestry agents will work more closely with communities, ensuring their
informed support of project activities.
The M&E framework will focus on: (i) social and gender impact; (ii) effectiveness and quality of
beneficiary participation; (iii) compliance with relevant Bank social safeguard policies. To ensure that
M&E will be used as an effective management tool, the suggested M&E indicators will be included in
the project implementation manual.
In the context of project implementation, M&E will be carried out by independent consultants, as is the
case of the ongoing Rural Employment Project which has proven to be an effective approach. The
composition of the team will reflect multidisciplinary expertise and gender-balance that will be necessary
to assess social impact and achievement of social development outcomes. The flexible approach to be
followed during project implementation would allow, as is the case of the ongoing Rural Employment
Project, rapid reaction to problems and continuous assessment and readjustment.
Implications for the Borrower
Social inclusion and participation. Several participatory monitoring exercises (surveys and beneficiary
assessments) will be undertaken during project implementation to assess the beneficiaries' perceptions of
the project's progress in providing adequate channels for participation to target groups.
Gender. In addition to quantitative information, qualitative information disaggregated by gender needs to
be generated, analyzed and incorporated in project implementation. Such data are most useful if
monitoring is actually conceived as a management tool. Project staff will need to be trained on
gender-sensitive M&E.
Implications for the Bank team
A social scientist will be included in the Bank supervision team. He/she will participate in supervision
missions on a regular basis to:
* review the appropriateness of the social analysis recommendations;
* verify compliance with relevant Bank safeguard policies; and
* . propose necessary adjustments, additional studies or changes in approach.
The supervision reports will also highlight the findings pertaining to social issues and the progress in
achieving the project social development goals.
-97 -



A social scientist will also participate in the Mid-Term Review to assess and adjust the strategies for
social inclusion and gender integration along with the participatory approaches proposed in the project
design.
- 98 -



Additional Annex 12: Environmental Assessment
ALGERIA: Second Rural Employment Project
This annex is a summary of the material presented in the Regional Environmental Assessment (REA)
covering the project zones, with a particular emphasis on the Environmental Management Plan included m
the REA.
Introduction
The second Rural Employment Project targets the impoverished mountainous rural areas in the wilayate of
Tiaret, Tissemsilt, Chlef, Ain Defla, Medea and Bouira in north-west and north-central Algeria. The project
objective is to generate and stimulate employment in these areas, first, through direct employment to address
the short term problem of high levels of rural unemployment; and, second, through asset creation with a
medium to long term perspective.
The main instruments for this purpose are:
* labor-intensive civil works for direct employment creation, emphasizing natural resource management
and soil erosion control; these entail specific activities such as reforestation, river bank stabilization, flood
control structures, etc.; and,
* productive activities for asset creation aim at increasing labor productivity and also have a natural
resource management and soil erosion control focus, such as the substitution of fruit trees for perennial low
productivity cereal production on sloped lands, water resource mobilization, etc.
Project objectives thus have an important focus on activities with positive environmental consequences,
particularly for reducing soil erosion, which is a serious problem in Algeria and noted as such in the
National Environmental Action Plan, prepared with Bank support.
In addition, the project has two institutional development components, the first targeting the General
Directorate of Forestry (DGF), the implementing agency and the project implementation structure in the six
targeted wilayate, and the second targeting the central and decentralized administration of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR). In both cases, the institutional development entails
environment related activities, such as environmental assessment in the context of project preparation,
monitoring of environmental impact, etc.
Project components
Soil Erosion Control
This is the critical project component that will serve as the instrument for direct short-term employment
creation, using labor-intensive techniques. The emphasis is on natural resource management targeting the
critical problem of soil erosion. An important aspect of this component is the employment of forest area
riparians in a participatory manner to ensure the sustainability of interventions. Specific activities comprise
the following:
* Reforestation targeting degraded mountainous areas: this will entail both forestry and forage species, as
trees or as bushes. This approach aims to respond to the agro-pastoral characteristic of the project zone, with
over-exploitation of the natural resource base for grazing. Pastoral management plans will be developed in a
participatory manner to enhance the sustainability of these interventions, using the model of Ras El Ma in
- 99 -



Sidi Bel Abbes under the ongoing Rural Employment Project (PERI), where similar issues are being
addressed in a participatory manner.
o River bank protection entails the biological stabilization of river banks which are susceptible to soil
erosion due to erratic flows.
o Terracing and biological control entails the building or the rehabilitation of terraces on steep slopes
susceptible to serious erosion. Terraces serve to break the force of water flows. Biological control through
trees and bushes enhance the process of stabilizing soils. As in the case of reforestation, where pertinent,
these activities will also be subject to pastoral management plans developed through participatory
approaches.
o Flood control structures: while the forestry based activities described above depend on a planting season,
flood control structures can be built around the year, particularly during summer months when seasonal
unemployment increases. These structures have been shown to be highly effective in reducing soil erosion
and in creating employment. In some instances, these structures have also protected downstream settlements,
saving human lives and property from the ravages of floods.
o Forest rehabilitation is similar to reforestation but targets established forests which have become
degraded. Planting densities are lower around established plants. As in the case of reforestation, pastoral
management plants will be developed in a participatory manner, focusing on both forestry and forage
species.
o Silvicultural forestry activities, which are also very labor intensive, aim at cleaning up degraded forest
areas from plants that are old, dead or suffering from pests. It will also entail clearing undercover growth to
remove undesirable plants and weeds that can put pressure on trees.
o Plant material production: to ensure plant material of adequate quantity and quality in a timely manner,
plant production will be contracted independently and plants will be provided to contractors. The costs
associated with this activity are accounted for in tree planting activities as the cost of the plants.
These activities have an overall positive environmental effect, particularly in reducing soil erosion through
reduced runoff, and in reducing the potential silting in downstream reservoirs. The potential adverse effects
of these activities would be related mainly to the execution of the associated civil works and in the use of
the developed areas. For example, tree planting needs to ensure that any existing vegetation cover is not
affected so as to make the soils susceptible to higher soil erosion. Flood control structures (gabions) need to
be porous enough so as to allow slowing down of flows and filtration of water. Any space to be used for
grazing needs to have an associated pastoral management plan with the active involvement and implication
of the riparians. Specific monitoring and mitigation measures have been incorporated in the EMP to address
these potential issues.
Agricultural Development
This component aims to address employment within a medium to long term perspective through agricultural
development activities in the mountainous project areas. These areas are currently characterized by a
cereal-livestock system, mainly barley for feed and some wheat, and livestock, mainly ovines (sheep and
goats). The extensive nature of livestock production has led to an over-exploitation of the natural resource
base. This component aims to diversify the production base by expanding the limited tree fruit production in
the project area. Field assessment has indicated that diversification will be a relative process in that cereal
production will continue in an alley cropping system.
Participation is a critical element of most agricultural development activities. In fruit tree planting activities
beneficiaries will contribute to 50 percent of costs for digging the troughs and planting the trees. This
participation will be either in the form of labor or actual financial contribution. Mechanical methods will not
be allowed except for the deep plowing necessary for viticulture. In land clearing, beneficiaries will
- 100-



contribute 30 percent of costs through labor or finance.
Women will benefit from agricultural development activities in an integral manner. However, in response to
women's expressed wishes and taking into consideration social and cultural factors that characterize the
project areas, specific activities targeting women were also developed.
Finally, fruit tree and small livestock activities will be closely associated with extension efforts through the
wilayate Directorates of Agricultural Services (DSA) and Forestry Directorates (CDF), with a specific focus
on the requirements for reaching female beneficiaries.
Specific activities under this component are:
* Fruit tree plantations which will be carried out under two systems:
o Rainfed fruit tree plantations will focus on species adapted to rainfed conditions, such
as almonds, figs, olives, etc.
o Irrigated fruit tree plantations such as pears, apples, etc., which require an assured
quantity of water. This activity will depend on the prerequisite of water of adequate
quantity and quality.
 Viticulture aims to establish vineyards in appropriate environments, reestablish or expand
vineyards in areas where there was or is a tradition of grape production. In general, viticulture is
a rainfed activity and will follow the same procedures as rainfed fruit tree plantations.
Viticulture is also the only exception to mechanical practices whereby an initial deep plowing is
allowed to ensure deep root growth for grape vine stock.
* Windbreaks aim at protecting planted areas, particularly young plantations, from wind and
soils from wind erosion.
* Land clearing entails destoning of land to allow a shift from cereal to fruit tree production.
These lands are expected to be converted to fruit tree orchards or vineyards under the project.
* Rural roads (upgrading and rehabilitation) enhances market access and overall social and
economic integration of remote mountain villages. Technical expertise will be provided from
project resources during implementation and by the Bank for supervision and technical support.
The PIM will include an operational manual of procedures to be followed for the
implementation of this activity from the activity specific EA to realization.
e Small livestock production. This entails a shift to commercial or subsistence production of
small animals, mainly poultry, beekeeping and rabbits.
* Activities targeting rural women. These are diverse artisanal activities such as sewing,
embroidery, etc., and will entail provision of equipment, materials and training. Other individual
or group initiatives (such as product processing and marketing) will also be assessed and
considered.
Fruit tree and viticulture activities also have positive environmental effects in reducing soil erosion as they
would gradually substitute for annual low productivity cereal production on vulnerable, sloped lands. This
would reduce excessive cultivation, particularly the environmentally adverse practice of cultivation with the
slope, which accelerates soil erosion. Fruit trees and vines would stabilize soils just as forestry species.
Similarly, windbreaks and land clearing are complementary to fruit trees and viticulture. Small livestock
activities (poultry, rabbits, bees) are an effort to diversify production and reduce, albeit in a marginal way,
the dominance of small rumninants based on extensive production methods. Potential adverse environmental
effects arising from these activities could be: (i) excessive use of agricultural chemicals; (ii) animal diseases;
and (iii) soil erosion from rural road activities.
- 101 -



On potential increases in agricultural chemical input use, existing low-intensity practices in the project
zones, the dry agro-ecological conditions, the high costs of the inputs vis a vis the poverty in the targeted
population, are factors that minimize the associated risks. Monitoring and mitigation measures have been
incorporated into the EMP, with the implication of the M&E consultants, the DSA and the National Plant
Protection Institute (INPV) along with the implementing agency and its decentralized structure. Similar
arrangements have been made for the rural roads activities, with the implication of the wilayate Public
Works Directorates along with the implementing agency. Mitigating measures include the reduction and
cleaning up of construction debris, reduction of noise effects and finally, effective measures to reduce
potential soil erosion impacts. These would be incorporated explicitly in the bidding documents.
Water Resource Mobilization
Water resource mobilization is critical to project activities. The project zone is characterized by low rainfall
with significant intra- and inter-annual variation. While irrigation is practiced in the lower valleys (outside
the project zones) through large irrigation schemes, in the mountainous and hilly areas the water potential is
not adequately exploited for irrigation or potable water. This is a general characteristic of the water sector in
Algeria, whereby the emphasis is on large schemes while small and medium scale irrigation (SMI) and
potable water for small settlements have lower priority. Both surface and groundwater are actually and
potentially important sources for SMI, and are exploited extensively officially and through illicit means. In
fact, in Algeria, agricultural land irrigated by SMI is several times the area irrigated by large scale irrigation
(LSI)-
In the project zone, capturing and managing existing water resources will be a critical factor in relieving
some of the risks arising from variable agro-climatic conditions. Clean potable water will also become
available to rural populations. As for irrigation, certain activities will require the prerequisite of water
availability (e.g., irrigated fruit trees). Imgation, in general, will allow more intensive and diversified
agricultural production.
Close coordination will be maintained with the Directions Hydraulique de Wilaya (DHW - Wilaya Water
Directorates) in water resource mobilization activities, particularly for the activities of hill dams and wells.
The DHW have wilaya water resource plans and associated studies (even though some may need to be
updated). The choice of the sites for the hill dams and deep wells will be authorized by the DHW,
complemented by additional studies and exploratory drilling where necessary. In all cases, water has to be of
adequate quantity and quality according to national standards for the subsequent investment activity to be
authorized. Financing for hill dams and deep wells will include equipment such as pumps, distribution
channels, etc., as well as instrumentation, such as piezometers, meters, etc. Critical factors such as water
tables, water quality will be monitored to prevent adverse environmental effects. In particular, it will be
ensured through extension and monitoring that water used for food production for human consumption is
free of pollution and meets national standards. For hill dams, the PIM includes an operational manual of
procedures to be followed for the implementation of this activity, particularly for the activity specific EIA.
The specific activities under this component are as follows:
o Hill dams (retenues collinaires) serve a double function as reservoirs with small capacity for
irrigation and potable water and as an element of erosion control strategies. It is also claimed
that they help groundwater recharge by slowing down surface flows. A hill dam will be subject
to several conditions (apart from normal engineering and geological studies) before associated
investments can be authorized by the Bank:
o Compliance with safeguards related to safety of dams (OP4.37) where necessary;
- 102 -



o Prior environmental impact studies; and
o Prior establishment and training of water users associations (WUA).
o Water points are small collections of runoff points to be used mainly for livestock and for the
irrigation of small areas.
o Rehabilitation of springs entails building covered or open tanks for collecting spring water for
use as potable water with sanitizing (chlorination -javelisation) and for livestock. Irrigation
potential is negligible, if any.
o Shallow wells (around 30 - 50 m depth on average) entail both the construction of new shallow
wells as well as the rehabilitation of existing shallow wells and include the provision of pumps,
meters and distribution equipment.
e Deep wells (around 50 - 100 m depth on average) also entail both the construction of new deep
wells as well as the rehabilitation of existing deep wells and include the provision of pumps,
meters and distribution equipment. Depending on the scale and capacity of the deep well,
establishment of WUA would be recommended.
The Algerian Government, through the PNDAR/FNRDA, is emphasizing increasing water use
efficiency by promoting water saving techniques, essentially drip irrigation. The cases observed under
the ongoing Rural Employment Project have demonstrated the significant complementarity between the
project and PNDAR initiatives. The impact is considerably enhanced in that a given amount of water
can be used to irrigate a larger area through drip irrigation. Given water scarcity in Algeria, this is an
initiative and technique that needs to be encouraged. The Algerian Government will finance irrigation
equipment through the PNDAR/FNRDA in a manner complementary to the project activities.
Institutional Developmentfor DGF
This component covers diverse activities such as training for DGF staff, required studies, consultant services
for M&E, and equipment and vehicles for the project management and implementation structure, as well as
for the DSA. The two important elements of this component are the training in participatory approaches for
project staff and the independent M&E. These two activities are recent innovations for the DGF which are
also having a wider impact on other MADR projects.
Specific activities will entail the following:
* Training activities targeting central and field staff of the DGF as well as the field staff of
DSA and DHW and the beneficiaries:
o Participatory approaches will emphasize various approaches and techniques to involve
beneficiaries in project implementation, including both theoretical work and field work
through on-the-job training in the laboratory provided by the project; this will include a
special perspective on gender-specific issues pertaining to women, targeting both male
and female DGF staff;
o Project management will focus on both coordination and implementation aspects,
emphasizing approaches, procedures and instruments, such as financial management,
procurement, record keeping, reporting, etc.;
o Information technology will focus on specific software and hardware to be used in
project implementation;
o Technical training will target both project staff and beneficiaries and emphasize the
specific project related topics as tree fruit production techniques, small livestock
production (for poultry, rabbits and beekeeping); operational procedures for the WUA,
maintenance of water and irrigation equipment, etc.;
- 103 -



o Training activities targeting rural women, focusing on specific areas such as marketing
and processing of agricultural and nonagricultural products, sewing and embroidery,
etc.; and
o Advanced technical training of short duration (2-3 month courses) on, e.g., restoration
of degraded mountainous lands, soil erosion monitoring, etc.
 Studies:
o A baseline survey will be conducted in the first year of the project to compile data with
which to assess progress and impact;
o Technical studies for water resource mobilization and rural road activities, entailing
environmental, feasibility, engineering, geological, etc., assessment; and
o Marketing and socioeconomic impact studies.
o Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) will be carried out by independent consultants in a
manner complementary to project implementation.
O Equipment comprising the following:
o Computers (desktop and laptop) with associated hardware (e.g., printers) and software;
o Office equipment (fax machines, photocopiers, etc.);
o Audio-visual equipment (projectors, cameras, video recorders, tape recorders, etc.); and
o Vehicles (cars, all terrain 4x4 cars and pickup trucks, motorcycles and spare parts).
Institutional Developmentfor the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR)
This component arose in the context of the ongoing CAS discussions, which are being held in an open,
inclusive and transparent manner, giving voice to many stakeholders. In the context of the CAS initiative,
sectoral discussions are also being held. Such a workshop was held in Ghardaia in April 2002 on
Sustainable Rural Development, with the participation of around 45 persons from diverse areas such as
farmers, private and public sector representatives in agricultural and agro-industrial sectors, officials from
central and local agricultural administration as well as related ministries of Land Use and Environment, and
Water Resources. The workshop discussions and recommendations noted the positive developments on the
policy front in the context of the PNDAR but also signaled constraints in the areas of policy design and
analysis, decentralized implementation and M&E.
In particular, it was signaled that the policy changes from a centrally planned management of the
agricultural sector to one emphasizing a market environment with targeted development projects were
positive developments. However, the new policy environment required policy analysis, M&E and impact
assessment capacity at the center. More importantly, for the policy changes to succeed, it was imperative
that the decentralized MADR administration be equipped to address development initiatives in a dynamic
manner. The newly appointed State Minister for Rural Development in MADR noted that while they had the
policy instruments to some extent, implementation faced constraints at the decentralized level due to lack of
capacity.
During project preparation, it was also observed that there were complementarities between some of the
PNDAR and PER objectives and instruments in areas such as production diversification, protection of
natural resources and water resource mobilization.
Finally, the ongoing Rural Employment Project has influenced policy perspectives on matters related to
decentralized operations and participatory approaches for rural development. In this context, a new
Agricultural and Rural Development Program (PDAR) is being developed in the spirit of the Rural
Employment Project with a "mise en valeur en proximite" perspective, implicating the decentralized
administration of other ministries in the wilayate as well. In this respect, several inter-ministerial decisions
- 104 -



have already been signed, in particular, one between the Ministry of the Interior and Municipalities (MICL)
and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR). The former is represented by the Wali,
the chief administrator in each wilaya. Hence, coordination for rural development is assured under the Wali,
implicating diverse ministries involved in rural development such as water resources, housing, health,
education, etc. The proposed Second Rural Employment Rural Project will thus be the driving element of
the PDAR and mise en valeur en proximit efforts in the targeted wilayate as well as the country as a whole.
Hence, it was decided to incorporate a broader Institutional Development component for MADR targeting
both the broader areas of policy design and implementation and M&E of development programs, and the
specific context of the project area. For the project area, the focus will be on the complementarities between
the CDF, DSA and DHW, providing them with adequate training and equipment to ensure effective support
to the collaborative project efforts. A Ministerial Instruction has been sent to the Walis, the agricultural
services (DSA and various institutes) indicating their roles in the project in this context.
The training activities are also based on a MADR document on a Training Plan for Agricultural Policy
Analysis and Planning.
On the general focus of the Institutional Development component, it was decided that a significant part of
the resources would be allocated to training programs targeting the decentralized administration. This
training would facilitate capacity development in implementing market oriented rural development
programs, giving authority and responsibility to regional and wilaya staff through diverse tools such as
participatory approaches. At least 25 percent of this component will be allocated to training activities
targeting the decentralized administration.
The Institutional Development activities will also incorporate gender-specific matters focusing on women
and targeting both male and female staff.
The Institutional Development activities will entail the following structure:
Activity                                    Target
Training on rural strategy analysis, design and  Focus on the Central Administration
implementation; policy analysis, policy decision
models and instruments
Training in project management: project evaluation  Focus mainly on the Decentralized
(economic, financial, social, including gender issues,  Administration but also involving the Centralized
environmental and technical), financial management, Administration in M&E and impact assessment
M&E and impact assessment                    in the context of efficiency of public
expenditures
Training in participatory approaches          Focus mainly on the Decentralized
Administration but also involving the Centralized
Administration in terms of principles of
participation -
Pilot Integrated Rural Development Projects   These micro projects will be held in different
agro-ecological environments and will serve as
laboratories for the training activities in the
context of PDAR with a "mise en valeur en
_proximite" perspective.
- 105-



Implementation Arrangements for Environmental Assessment Activities
The exact sites of the project activities will be determined during project implementation. Appropriate
mitigating measures are thus being detailed as part of the REA in order to ensure that the different activities
of the project will not entail significant negative specific or cumulative regional negative impact on the
environment in the project area. The EMP presents in a comprehensive manner the mitigating measures to
be implemented as well as the supervision and monitoring responsibilities. Some additional details such as
the detailed procedures for implementing the screening procedures as well as supervision and monitoring
responsibilities are presented in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
Main Features of the Regulatory Framework on Environmental Protection
Environmental assessment is presently required by Algerian regulations for all project entailing potential
environmental impacts. This principle is stated in the Environmental Law 83-03 and the EA procedures are
detailed in Decree 90-78.
It is stated in the law that all infrastructure projects or all works that could potentially affect the environment
adversely, in particular those that could affect public health, agriculture, natural areas, fauna, flora, historical
and archeological sites and monuments, etc., will be submitted to an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA).
Article 5 of Decree 90-78 states that "... the content of the EIA should be commensurate with the
importance of the works , construction and infrastructures considered as well as their expected impact on the
environment. The EIA should include an analysis of these expected impacts on the environment and in
particular on the sites and landscapes, fauna flora, natural areas and biological equilibrium, also nuisances
effects to neighborhoods and public salubrity."
The construction of hill dams and rural roads upgrading and rehabilitation will be two of the activities that
will be covered by activity-specific EA studies.
Environmental Screening of Project Activities
From a regulatory and a technical point of view, screening is an important in assessing if and to what extent
the project activities should be submitted to an activity-specific EA.
The project activities that will be submitted to a screening procedure are the following.
o Upgrading and rehabilitation of rural roads
o Construction of hill dams (retenues collinaires)
o Wells, deep wells, water points and spring rehabilitation
o Flood control structures and terracing (construction and rehabilitation)
o Reforestation type activities
o Silvicultural forestry activities
o Irrigated fruit trees
- 106 -



Capacity building
Training and skills improvement in environmental assessment will be provided to staff in charge of project
implementation. These training activities will be delivered from the beginning of project implementation to
appropriate staff concemed by the project implementation both at the local (CCGW) and the central level
(CCGP).
These training activities will also cover the procedural aspects of EIA implementation and follow up, and
environmental regulations. These training activities will be delivered by specialists both from the
administration in charge of environmental protection as well as from other specialized entities within the
Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ministry of the Interior and Municipalities and the Ministry
of Water Resources. Specialized consultants will be called upon as necessary.
The implementing agency, the DGF, will have the responsibility for implementing the mitigating measures,
through the CCGP and CCGW and in association with other associated agencies at the local and national
levels.
The monitoring of the water resources (water tables, water quality, etc.) in the project area will be carried
out by the Agence Nationale des Ressources Hydrauliques (ANRH) in coordination with the Water
Directorates (DHW) at the wilaya level. For the rural roads the Public Works Directorates at the wilaya level
will also be associated with monitoring activities.
Environmental Management Plan
Mitigating Plan on Environmental Impacts
DA 10 million (about $US 125 000) and DA 14.1 millions ($US 177 000) have been budgeted in the project
financial plan respectively for activity-specific environmental impact assessment and environmental
training. The cost of implementation of the mitigating measures is integrated in the cost of works and/or
supervision.
Activities   Anticipated Impacts           Mitigating Measures            Responsible Parties
Reforestation  - Soil Erosion arising  - Prepare an action plan for monitoring of  Project implementation
and forest   from potential land   these activities                       structure
rehabilitation  clearing           - Avoid land clearing on soils highly  (CCGP/CCGW)
- Overexploitation of  susceptible to erosion
forestry resources due to - Avoid working during wet season  Consultant in charge of
grazing               - Pastoral management plans to be     project monitoring and
developed with riparians in a participatory  evaluation
manner
Flood control - Damage caused by the  - Ensure gabions with adequate filtration  Project implementation
deterioration of the   - Reinforcement of infrastructures through  structure
gabions                tree and shrub planting               (CCGP/CCGW)
- Bank stabilization with plants
Consultant in charge of
project monitoring and
evaluation
Rehabilitation - Deterioration of  - Rehabilitated terraces will be monitored  Project implementation
- 107 -



of terraces  terraces (particularly at  closely in order to avoid leaving bare the  structure
the edges)            perimeters to be protected and upgraded.  (CCGP/CCGW)
- Rehabilitated terraces will be
systematically planted.                Consultant in charge of
- Terraces will be reinforced with adequate  project monitoring and
drainage systems at the edges          evaluation
Silvicultural  - Fire hazards during  - Incineration of waste will be performed in  Project implementation
forestry     incineration of plant  the presence of local Forestry Services  structure
activities   waste                  representatives who will ensure that the  (CCGP/CCGW)
procedure is safe in compliance with rules
and regulations to that effect.
Fruit trees   - Excessive use of    - Rational use of agricultural chemicals with Project implementation
plantations   agricultural chemicals  extension support on recommended doses  structure
might entail negative  and methods of application            (CCGP/CCGW)
impacts on water      - Use of adapted plants with disease
resources             resistance                              Consultant in charge of
- Use of cultivation and mixed cropping  project monitoring and
(alley cropping) as a weed control method,  evaluation
- Use of biodegradable pesticides
Small        - Risks of animal      Local veterinary services will carry out the  Project implementation
livestock    diseases (zoonose)     sanitary follow-up of the small livestock.  structure
(CCGP/CCGW)
Consultant in charge of
project monitoring and
evaluation
Construction  - Risk of impact on the  - Enforce clean zones in the areas around  Project implementation
of water      watertable            well and water points                  structure
points, wells,  - Risk of water     - Sanitary follow-up (periodic analysis of  (CCGP/CCGW) in
deep wells and contamination and    water quality)                         collaboration with
hill dams     related public health  - Assess modalities and options for disposing  RH and BHC
impacts               waste water
- Increase of waste   - Follow-up of the level of exploitation of the Consultant in charge of
water generation      watertable                             project monitoring and
- Risk of algal growth  - Rehabilitation of sites from which earth is evaluation
and quality reduction of taken
water in dams         - Definition and installation of protection
- Risk of creating    perimeters
favorable conditions for - Hill dams should be emptied annually
the proliferation of  which will decrease the risk of algal growth
disease vectors       and eutrophication
- Risks of increased  - Plantation and upkeep of the proximate
erosion in areas from  watershed around a water structure
which earth is taken  - Flood control measures uphill from the hill
- Risks of siltation  dams
Rehabilitation - Impact related to the  - Prepare a generic environmental impact  Project implementation
and upgrading environment ( loss of  study                                 structure
of rural roads  agricultural land,  - Take into account recommendations from  (CCGP/CCGW) and
destruction of         EIA studies, such as:                  consultants in charge of
- 108 -



vegetation, etc.)        - Avoid works during wet season     EIA studies
-,Construction during
wet Constructon  during  - Consider alternatives and options for  Consultant in charge of
wet season               routingCnutn                                    hreo
- Landslides during           g                              project monitoring and
earthmoving works        - Preserve and restore vegetation on the  evaluation
- Construction technique  side of the roads
inappropriate            - Modify routing in order to avoid
unstable soils
- Conceive drainage systems in order to
reduce surface run-offs
- Include systems to reinforce soil
stability
Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
Costs of consultants for monitoring and supervision of the project, including environmental aspects, have
been estimated at DA 40 mllion (US$ 500 000) and have been integrated in the financing plan of the
project.
The responsibility of the Monitoring and Supervision of the Environmental Management Plan lies with DGF
and the implementation structure (CCGP/CCGW). This mission will be partly delegated to consultants who
will also conduct a continuous M&E of the project dunng implementation.
The table below presents the indicators for monitonng and evaluation of the environmental performance of
the main components of the project.
Activities          Monitoring and evaluation Indicators  Responsible party   Schedule
Reforestation and forest  Erosion rate on the basis of a site sample  CCGP/CCGW   Annual
rehabilitation         Plant survival rates                    Contractors
Growth rate of trees                     M&E Consultant
Flood control          Erosion rate on the basis of a site sample  CCGP/CCGW      After heavy
Status of infrastructure constructed     Contractors       rains
M&E Consultant
Terrace rehabilitation  Erosion rate on the basis of a site sample  CCGP/CCGW     After heavy
Status of infrastructure constructed     Contractors       rains
Percentage of terraces planted           M&E Consultant
Beneficiaries
Silvicultural forestry  Number of problems reported during     CCGP/CCGW          Annual
Work                  incineration of plant waste              Contractors
M&E Consultant
Fruit tree plantations  Number of interventions from pest control  CCGP/CCGW/DSA  Annual
services (INPV)                          Contractors
Number of requests for assistance        M&E Consultant
Plant survival rates                     Beneficiaries
Small livestock       Estimate of survival rates               CCGP/CCGW/DSA      Annual
Contractors
- 109 -



M&E Consultant
Beneficiaries
Rehabilitation of wells,  Evolution of drinking water quality through  CCGP/CCGW/  Annual
deep wells, water points  periodic water analysis              DHW/BHC
and spring outlet     Evolution of soil and water salinity on irrigated Contractors
land                                     M&E Consultant
Beneficiaries
Hill dams             Quality of water (salinity and other national  CCGP/CCGW/   Annual
standards)                               DHW/BHC           Dry season
Status of infrastructures                Contractors
Level of algal growth                    M&E Consultant
Level of siltation                       Beneficiaries
Rehabilitation and    General quality of the road surface      CCGP/CCGW/         Annual and
upgrading of rural roads  Status of water flow control systems such as  DHW/BHC   after heavy
culverts                                 Contractors       rains
Status of road drainage systems          M&E Consultant
- 110-



MAP SECTION






IERD 32215
ALGERIA
J7                        SECOND RURAL EMPLOYMENT PROJECT AREAS
ADMINISTRATIVE LIMITS
_ i \  if -'-L ' IL ,:,.0  TOWNS AND VILLAGES,_,
DL ERIAN                                                               \N r1_' - t_FI_,.....l,.;.. ...' ', IL -El_;r'Irl1E ;'
/~~~~ '                            -'.         f'-      EIL.<<-  i        -ii
L ,  t  llf:|_1l'  '  O        '50          I100
KILOMETERS                          .
/       F, e~~~~iv  c-1 Zt er' a r' -r- o  , e a  i S a  GfERS                w
AYm Deheb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tIcte
(I 
P                                                  FEeRIJARY 2003
j J  XSoucueur   r    !        f 'DJELFA  <,zr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boi  m chedalMh oukl
!5-5=2~~~~~~~ SEg TIARTyA)vvX1-
\,Aim Deheb  j   <_-   /) <         jf           4>A-In El MelhR
\      ,/S       /        A     /Z~~~~~_#WS       /            /--_ffi- m~~A,
",,>Llw,,'f'   >    2   " 't         <      f     a              %, </ /MiliKnA
Bo~~~~~~F3UR Bo0



