THE WORLD BANK GROUP
4foShop
ThtWd ILj^ ik
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/26/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ALGERIA                                 Project ID: P076784
Project: Second Rural Employment Project         Task Team Leader: Kutlu Somel
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 20, 2002  IBRD Amount ($m): 95.00
Bank Approval: April 29, 2003                    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSRE                             Sector: Crops (45%); Forestry (35%); Irrigation and
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  drainage (10%); General agriculture; fishing and
Status: Lending                                  forestry sector (10%)
Theme: Rural non-farm income generation (P); Rural
services and infrastructure (P); Civic engagement;
participation and community driven development (P);
Gender (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Thie Project seeks to generate and stimulate rural employment in poor rural mountainous areas of
northiwest and northl-centralAlgeria. In the first instance, the Project aims to respond in the short-term
to the critical problem of unemployment in the target rural areas through direct employment creation,
using labor-intensive civil works for natural resource management emphasizing soil erosion control. The
longer-term perspective emphasizes the instrument of asset creation for stimulating employment, mainly
through natural resource management, protection of the environment, water resource mobilization, and
income-generating rural development activities aiming at the substitution of perennial tree crops in place
of annual cereal production, with the purpose of increasing labor productivity in a sustainable manner.
Asset creation is defined broadly as the enhanced availability of resources that can be used directly or
indirectly in productive activities. Examples are infrastructure with important extemalities; maintenance
of the natural resource base by reducing soil erosion; perennial fruit tree orchards and vineyards adapted
and appropriate for the agro-ecological environment instead of annual low productivity cereals; enhanced
availability of water for irrigation and human consumption; etc. Unemployment is a structural problem in
Algeria. Hence, longer term solutions are necessary to address the problem. Short term solutions such as
direct transfers can alleviate shortfalls in income and consumption flows but need to be complemented by
actions and measures with durable effects. In that context, it is necessary to focus on asset creation which
will have longer term effects, particularly on labor productivity.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Project design focuses on the basic objectives of direct and indirect employment creation. Direct



2
ISDS
employment creation aims to respond to the immediate problem of high unemployment in the project
area, and indirect employment creation aims to enhance the options for medium to long term
development for more sustainable employment through increased and more diversified production, both
on-farm and off-farm through increased demand for upstream and downstream services. The project also
aims to integrate rural women in project activities through direct access to project activities in general
and through specific activities targeting rural women, difficult as this may prove to be given the existing
socio-cultural conditions.
As indicated in Annex 1 1 on Social Assessment, the project focuses on participatory approaches in order
to enhance ownership of interventions and activities that are responsive to beneficiaries' needs. A
preliminary survey, using project staff who received basic training in participatory approaches, assisted
by trainers who had received training under the ongoing Rural Employment Project (PERI - Loan
4143-AL) and coordinated by a team of consultants, used diverse techniques to assess the needs and
constraints of men and women in the project zones (see Sondage Preliminaire in Documents in Project
Files). This was a new experience for both the project staff and the beneficiaries in the project zones: the
former for being able to work closely with the beneficiaries and respond to their needs, and the latter to
find government agencies interested in their perspective on issues and priorities. As a consequence,
project components were modified during project preparation to reflect the critical constraints in the
project zone. These changes are mainly in the increased emphasis on water resource mobilization and
technical aspects of diversification. Ultimately, project implementation will also entail a degree of
flexibility as is the case under PERI, to adapt to evolving conditions.
The project will comprise the following components to be implemented by the centralized and
decentralized administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR) and the
General Directorate of Forestry (DGF) through competitive market based procurement procedures,
emphasizing small lots as the basis of contracts to encourage SME.
Component 1: Soil Erosion Control (Total cost US$ 50.2 million; US$ 40.1 million Bank financing)
This is the critical project component that will serve as the instrument for direct short-term employment
creation, using labor-intensive techniques. The emphasis is on natural resource management targeting the
critical problem of soil erosion. A critical aspect of this component is the employment of forest area
riparians in a participatory manner to ensure the sustainability of interventions. Furthermore, where
pertinent, forestry and forage species will be combined in planting activities to respond to the
agro-pastoral characteristic of the project zone and pastoral management plans will be developed to
promote the sustainable exploitation of the natural resource base for grazing.
Specific activities comprise the following: reforestation; river bank management; terracing and biological
control; flood control infrastructures; forestry rehabilitation; and silvicultural activities.
Component 2: Agricultural Development (Total cost US$ 66.7 million; US$ 34.4 million Bank
financing)
This component aims to address employment within a medium to long term perspective through
agricultural development activities in the mountainous project areas. These areas are currently
characterized by a cereal-livestock system, mainly barley for feed and some wheat, and livestock, mainly
ovines (sheep and goats). This component aims to diversify the production base by expanding the limited
fruit tree production in the project area. Participation is a critical element of most agricultural
development activities. In fruit tree planting activities beneficiaries will contribute to 50 percent of costs



3
ISDS
for digging the troughs and planting the trees. This participation will be either in the form of labor or
actual financial contribution. No mechanical methods will be allowed except for the deep ploughing
necessary for viticulture. In land clearing, beneficiaries will contribute 30 percent of costs through labor
or finances. Women will benefit from agricultural development activities in an integral manner as well as
through specific activities targeting rural women.
Fruit tree, grapevine and small livestock activities will be closely associated with extension efforts
through the Wilayate Agricultural Services Directorates (DSA - Directions des Services Agricoles) and
the Wilayate Forestry Directorates (CDF - Conservations des Forets), with emphasis on the requirements
for reaching female beneficiaries, choice of adapted species, cultural practices, including water-saving
irrigation methods.
Specific activities under this component are: rustic fruit tree plantations and irrigated fruit tree
plantations; viticulture; plant material production; windbreaks; land clearing; rural roads (upgrading and
rehabilitation); small livestock production; and artisanal activities.
Component 3: Water Resource Mobilization (Total Cost US$ 15.5 million; US$12.4 million Bank
financing)
Water resource mobilization is critical to project activities. The project zone is characterized by low
rainfall with significant intra- and inter-annual variation. While irrigation is practiced in the lower valleys
through large irrigation schemes, in the mountainous and hilly areas the water potential is not adequately
exploited for irrigation or potable water. In the project zone, capturing and managing existing water
resources will be a critical factor in relieving some of the risks arising from variable agro-climatic
conditions. This will also make clean potable water available to rural populations. As for irrigation,
certain activities will require the prerequisite of water availability (e.g., irrigated fruit trees). Irrigation, in
general, will allow more intensive and diversified agricultural production. Close coordination will be
maintained with the Directions Hydraulique de Wilaya (DHW - Governorate Water Directorates) in
water resource mobilization activities, particularly for the activities of hill dams and wells. The choice of
the sites for the hill dams and deep wells will be authorized by the DHW, complemented by additional
studies and exploratory drilling where necessary. In all cases, water has to be of adequate quantity and
quality for the subsequent investment activity to be authorized.
The specific activities under this component are as follows: hill dams (retenues collinaires) (where the
height of the dam does not exceed 15 meters); water points; rehabilitation of springs; and shallow (30 -
50 m) and deep (50 - 100 m) wells.
A hill dam will be subject to several conditions for the associated investments to be authorized by the
Bank:
*   Compliance with safeguards related to safety of dams (OP4.37) where necessary;
*   Prior environmental impact studies; and
*   Prior establishment and training of water users associations (WUA).
Depending on the scale of the operation, WUA would also be required for deep wells.
Complementary water saving irrigation equipment, such as drip irrigation systems, will be financed under
the ongoing PNDARJFNRDA activities.



4
ISDS
Component 4: Support for the Central Project Management Unit (Cellule Centrale de Gestion du
Projet - CCGP) and Wilaya Coordination and Management Units (Cellules de Coordination et de
Gestion de Wilaya - CCGW) (Total Cost US$ 4.6 million; US$ 3.2 million Bank financing)
This component covers diverse activities such as training for DGF staff, required studies, consultant
services for M&E, and equipment and vehicles for the project management and implementation structure.
The two important elements of this component are the training in participatory approaches for project
staff and the independent M&E. These two activities are recent innovations for the DGF which are also
having wider effect in other MADR projects.
Specific activities will entail the following: (i) training activities such as participatory approaches, with
a special perspective on gender-specific issues pertaining to women, targeting both male and female DGF
staff; project management; information technology (IT), technical forestry subjects, etc.; (ii) studies such
as the baseline survey, technical and environmental studies for water resource mobilization and rural road
activities and marketing and socioeconomic impact; Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) which will be
carried out by independent consultants in a manner complementary to project implementation; and (iii)
equipment comprising computers; office equipment, and vehicles.
Component 5: Institutional Development for the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(MADR) (Total Cost US$ 4.5 million; US$ 3.5 million Bank financing)
During sectoral strategy discussions in the context of the new CAS and during project preparation,
complementarities between some of the PNDAR and the two Rural Employment Projects objectives and
instruments were noted in areas such as production diversification, protection of natural resources and
water resource mobilization. Hence, a broader Institutional Development component for MADR was
developed, targeting both the broader areas of policy design and implementation and M&E of
development programs, and the specific context of the project area. For the project area, the focus would
be on the complementarities between wilaya (governorate) level agencies, namely, the CDF, the DSA,
and the Wilaya Water Directorates (Directions Hydrauliques de Wilaya - DHW), providing them with
adequate training and/or equipment to ensure effective support to the collaborative project efforts in
areas such as extension, facilitation of credit applications, etc. On the general focus of the Institutional
Development component, a significant part of the resources would be allocated to training programs
targeting the decentralized administration. This training would facilitate capacity development in
implementing market-oriented rural development programs, giving authority and responsibility to
regional and wilaya staff through diverse tools such as participatory approaches.
The Institutional Development activities for MADR comprise the following: training for the central and
decentralized administration on rural development strategies; impact assessment of development policies
and policy analysis instruments; M&E instruments and methods, and pilot integrated rural development
projects for training purposes. The Institutional Development activities will also incorporate
gender-specific matters focusing on women and targeting both male and female staff.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The target group is the population in specific communes in the mountainous areas of the wilayate of
Tiaret, Tissemsilt, Chief, Afn Defla, Medea and Bouira. The population in these communes is 2.4
million, in 680,000 households. The project zones extend eastward from the ongoing Rural Employment
Project (Loan 4143-AL) in Northwest Algeria towards the north-center of the country and cover 2.4



5
ISDS
million ha. Specifically, the project zones are: (i) Zone 1: Monts de Gargar and Monts de Frenda
(watershed of the Mina river) in the province of Tiaret and Monts de l'Ouarsenis Sud in the province of
Tissemsilt; (ii) Zone 2: Monts de Dahra and Monts de l'Ouarsenis occidental in the province of Chief
and Monts de l'Ouarsenis Nord in the province of Afn Defla; (iii) Zone 3: Monts du Titteri occidental and
Monts du Sersou in the province of Medea and Monts du Titteri oriental in the province of Bouira.
The project zone is characterized by an agro-pastoral economy based on a poor resource base in
mountainous areas with sloped, vulnerable lands, extensive ovine production, high unemployment, and
rural exodus exacerbated by the events of the past ten years. The population in the project zones are
impoverished due to limited assets and incomes, and unemployment. Based on official data,
unemployment in the project zones ranges from 43 - 60 percent and averages 50 percent. Survival
strategies are reflected in an unsustainable exploitation of the natural resource base.
B. Chieck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Project activities are expected to result in positive environmental benefits and significant
environmental issues are not anticipated. The project area suffers acute soil erosion and degradation. The
project emphasis on measures that would result in controlled run-off, reduced soil erosion and increased
ground cover should significantly contribute to alleviating this issue. However, possible environmental
issues related to water resource management and soil erosion could stem from activities such as the
construction of hill dams and road building/rehabilitation. A Regional Environmental Assessment (REA)
covering the three project zones, including a generic Environmental Management Plan (EMP), has been
prepared for the project.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.3 7)                                * Yes 0 No
Projects in Intemational Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 0 Yes 0 No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
A Regional Environmental Assessment (REA) covering the three project zones, including a generic
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been developed as part of project preparation on the basis
of detailed reports for each of the specific zones of the project (for the zones described in section l.A.4



6
ISDS
above). The project is expected to result in overall positive environmental impacts through the
implementation of activities entailing both physical and biological measures on lands prone to erosion.
The activities to be implemented are expected to result in increased ground cover through forestry and/or
perennial fruit tree plantation, further reducing erosion, land degradation and siltation rates in
downstream reservoirs. The proposed project will implement activities that closely complement those in
the ongoing Rural Employment Project, in which no major environmental issues were found, and it is
expected that this would also be the case for the proposed project.
The Regional Environmental Assessment covering the three project zones includes detailed description
of the activities to be funded by the project, including the potential risks, recommendations of mitigation
measures, and monitoring indicators as appropriate. During implementation, new rural roads and hill
dams, will be submitted to activity specific Environmental Assessments. Prior to negotiations an
Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank will be prepared as part of the PIP/PIM, which will describe
(i) the site selection criteria for hill dams and rural roads; (ii) procedures for screening hill dams and rural
roads to ensure compliance with OD4.12 and OD 4.37; and (iii) prototype TOR for the activity-specific
EA for hill dams and rural roads.
The REA specifies that the recommendations of these activity specific EA, to be carried out during
project implementation, will be included in bidding documents and contracts awarded to ensure that they
are taken into consideration during works implementation and monitoring and evaluation. Moreover,
pesticides will not be procured as part of project activities, however the likelihood for pesticide use as a
result of the project has been assessed and found negligible due to the agricultural practices and the dry
agro-climatic conditions in the project zones. However, this issue will be monitored and the National
Plant Protection Institute (lNPV) will be included in related follow up. The REA has been prepared in
parallel with the social assessment of this project and thus includes the participation, through preliminary
surveys, of a representative sample of farmers, local authorities and any other stakeholders concerned.
In the case of new wells, order to address issues of water availability and quality, the national agency in
charge of water resources, ANRH and the DHW in the project wilayate will assess water resources in the
target area, including exploratory drilling. All hill dams and wells will require authorization by the DHW
as part of the screening process.
During project preparation, the new Bank policy on involuntary resettlement OP4.12 was presented and
discussed thoroughly with the Borrower. The Borrower was informed that adequate compliance with
OP4. 12 includes compensation to people losing land they have held under customary or traditional rights,
people utilizing common property resources, squatters residing on public lands, and encroachers deprived
of established access to resources. Given the incompatibilities between national regulations and the
OP4.12 compensation requirements, and the inability of the DGF as an executing agency of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development to tackle national policy issues, the position of the DGF is to
exclude from the project any investment activity entailing displacement and/or resettlement as defined by
OP4.12. Furthermore, the reform of the land tenure system and related legislation on compensation
processes are structural issues that fall outside the scope of an investment project and that can only be
addressed with a long-term land policy reform perspective. Management has also decided that the present
proposed project will not address policy issues. For the infrastructure activities under the proposed
project, the Borrower will identify sites that will not entail displacement or resettlement as per OP4. 12.
The selection of these sites will be subject to specific environmental review. The screening criteria will
include an assessment of the status of the land, its present use, who owns it and who uses it. The activity
specific environmental assessments describing any safeguard-related issues will be prepared by the local
consultants and submitted to the Bank team for review and clearance.



7
ISDS
lI.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
As part of the REA, the risk of cumulative effects has been found to be negligible, as precautions are taken for preven
and mitigation, especially in the water resource mobilization component.
Il.D.Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The impact of hill dams can be considered to be positive in the long term, through reduced runoff,
increased filtration for recharge of aquifers, etc. Soil erosion control activities will also have a positive
long term effect on reduced runoff and thus reduced loss of topsoil and reduced siltation of downstream
reservoirs. These impacts and the remediation or mitigation of the negative ones will be evaluated
through activity specific environmental assessments and M&E during project implementation.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N.A.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Borrower will monitor environmental impact directly through its decentralized organization as well as through thi
services of consultants and specialized institutes. Furthermore, activity specific EA recommendations and mitigation
plans will be incorporated into bidding documents and will become an integral part of works contracts.
I1.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During project preparation, with the support of consultants, a group of 10 DGF staff trained in
participatory approaches in PERI, as well as staff who will be implicated in PER2, have been involved in
carrying out a participatory social assessment. A special focus has been adopted to address gender issues.
During project implementation, appropriate participatory mechanisms, to be designed as part of the
Social Assessment, will further enhance the participation of all sectors of the local communities in
project implementation. One of these instruments will be the Pastoral Management Plans. DGF has sent
to the Bank a letter authorizing disclosure of the Regional Environmental Assessment through the
Infoshop and informed the Bank this Assessment is also made available to the public in the country at the
DGF Headquarters in Algiers and in each CDF in the six project wilayate.
E. Safeguards Classflcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



8
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               9/18/2002     9/11/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           9/12/2002     9/12/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                            9/12/2002     9/12/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework'                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Managemnent Plan.                                     Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan.'                               Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Available  Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Si2ned and submitted by      Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:            Kutlu Somel                                03/25/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1: Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough              03/25/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Concepcion Esperanza Del Castillo/Person/World  03/25/2003
Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                 Name                                       Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Sherif Kamel F. Arif                   03/25/2003
Sector Manager/Director:     Letitia A. Obeng                           03/25/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
FSEARCH        FEoD6cK .'1 ' 1                    .A 



