Report No. PID10889
Project Name                     ALGERIA-Second Rural Employment Project (@)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Crops (45%); Forestry (35%); Irrigation
and drainage (10%); General
agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (10%)
Project ID                       P076784
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
General Directorate of Forestry
Address: Direction Generale des Forots,
Parc Zoologique, Ben Aknoun,
Alger, Algerie
Contact Person: Monsieur Salah Bourahla, Directeur
General
Tel: 213 21 91 53 16
Fax: 213 21 91 53 17
Email:
dgf@wissal.dz ; per2@wissal.dz ; per2bis@yahoo.fr
Directorate of Investment Programming and Economic
Studies
Address: Direction de la Programmation des
Investissements et des Etudes
Economiques (DPIEE)
MinistOre de l'Agriculture et de Developpement Rural
Contact Person: Monsieur Idir Bais, Directeur
Tel: 213 21 74 57 52
Fax: 213 21 74 57 52
Email: Idirbays@yahoo.fr
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 20, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              September 20, 2002
Bank Approval Date               April 29, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The rural sector in Algeria bears a disproportionate burden in terms of
poverty, unemployment and underemployment. The poverty assessment study
carried out in 1996 indicates that 70 percent of the poor in Algeria are
in rural areas and that there is a close relationship between poverty and
unemployment. The rural areas are also affected by underemployment due to
the seasonal nature of agricultural activities, hence agricultural labor
productivity is considerably lower than that in the other sectors.
Agriculture and agro-industry, dominated by private operators, have been a
more dynamic element of the economy, exhibiting average growth rates above
the economy-wide average. However, agriculture is also highly susceptible
to climatic variability, and particularly drought, which has struck the



country persistently since the 90s, with some regions being particularly
affected. This results in risk-averse technology choices by producers,
with low levels of investment and technology and low average yields in
critical (strategic) field crops, such as cereals.
In order to stimulate the rural and agricultural sectors, the Government
developed and implemented a National Agricultural Development Plan (Plan
National de Developpement Agricole - PNDA) in 2000. Subsequently, in 2001,
the Government initiated the five year PSRE (2001 - 2004) into which the
PNDA was incorporated. After 2002, with the incorporation of the rural
development perspective, PNDA became PNDAR.
The objectives of the PNDAR are: (i) food security; (ii) exploitation of
resources based on identified potential; and (iii) protection of the
environment. However, the "identified potential" could have been
overestimated and thus needs to based on research on both technical
aspects as well as economic aspects (competitiveness) . The expectation
that this potential is readily obtainable could have led to an emphasis on
targeted development incentives through subsidies as the common policy
instrument.
The PNDAR is developed in the context of a market economy, and signals
fundamentals such as "food security rather than self-sufficiency",
"competitiveness", "comparative advantage", "optimal use of resources"
(especially water), etc. These initiatives need to be supported by
thorough policy analysis and have adequate impact monitoring. Staff
capacity in the MADR needs to be reinforced in developing coherent
programs around well assessed priorities, as well as for effective M&E.
Participation. One important aspect of the PNDAR is that it is more
reliant on decentralized processes and beneficiary participation than was
the case historically. This is very important for the durability of the
interventions and for reducing recurrent costs of O&M. The experience of
the Rural Employment Project in this respect has been important.
PNDAR is made up of four principal programs: (i) the adaptation of
production systems to climatic conditions called reconversion; (ii) the
modernization of farms, commonly called the FiliOre program; (iii) land
development by concessions; and (iv) the national program of reforestation.
The Reconversion Program aims to diversify agricultural production in the
arid, semi-arid and sub-humid zones by reducing the fallow and by
replacing low productivity cereals with other crops and activities that
would: (i) manage the drought conditions better; (ii) arrest and reverse
environmental degradation arising from cereal monoculture with fallow,
especially soil erosion and the encroachment of the desert; and (iii)
improve farmer incomes.
The FiliOre Program targets products with large public consumption such as
wheat and milk. These are development programs to encourage production and
productivity increases through various incentives (financing inputs and
wheat and milk producer price, interest rate and investment subsidies).
They are also ambitious and entail large fiscal outlays which need to be
adequately analyzed. The potential and actual impacts of this component
need to be assessed.
The Concession Program encourages specific development projects for
diverse purposes (e.g., development of a small irrigation perimeter in a
given location) . The projects need to be economically viable, socially
acceptable and environmentally sustainable. There is an element of
participation in financing in the costs of each project. If the project is
-2 -



able to remain successful, after five years, all assets, including the
land are supposed to be ceded to the beneficiaries. An assessment of the
performance of the program is needed. In particular, given the current
problematic state of land tenure rights, the cession of land to
beneficiaries would have long term repercussions.
The National Program of Reforestation targets the watersheds and mountain
areas, using the model of the Rural Employment Project (Loan 4143-AL),
namely both reforestation on public lands and expansion of fruit trees on
private lands through labor-intensive methods. In addition, forestry
related activities, such as plant production, are being introduced under
concessions on public lands. The most serious environmental problem in
rural areas is soil erosion. A major effort aims to focus defensive
forestry and fruit tree establishment activities (reforestation,
terracing, etc.) against soil erosion. These are efficient uses of public
resources utilizing labor-intensive approaches. The Bank-supported ongoing
Rural Employment Project is providing satisfactory results in this area.
The Bank has already contributed to the National Program of Reforestation
in the PNDAR and the PSRE by including a supplementary program for the
wilayate (governorates) of Relizane and Mostaganem under the ongoing Rural
Employment Project and by extending the closing date accordingly to allow
for the realization of this supplementary program.
New Initiatives for the Steppes. The challenging area of the management of
the steppes as an ecological (diversity of flora and fauna) and economic
asset (for grazing) will be tackled under a new initiative. These fragile
areas are subject to severe pressure from grazing and illicit encroachment
of cultivation, causing irreversible damage to the vast nappes alfatiOres
which are critical to soil stabilization. Customary use rights based on
tribal structures were at odds with development initiatives trying to
establish control over the use of resources on these public lands. The new
initiative now would recognize communities as the basic unit of
development, in the spirit of decentralized and participatory approaches.
Agricultural and Rural Development. The program of new Government
appointed after the elections of May 2002 has reaffirmed the priority of
agricultural and rural development and the continuation of the initiatives
under PNDAR, focusing on employment, sustainable development and
preservation of natural resources. One particular development was the
establishment of State Minister (Ministre Delegue) post for Rural
Development in the Ministry of Agriculture, which was renamed Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MinistOre de l'Agriculture et du
Developpement Rural - MADR).
The ongoing Rural Employment Project has influenced policy perspectives on
matters related to decentralized operations and participatory approaches
for rural development. In this context, a new Agricultural and Rural
Development Program (PADR) is being developed in the spirit of the Rural
Employment Project with a "mise en valeur en proximite" perspective,
implicating the decentralized administration of other ministries in the
wilayate as well. In this respect, several inter-ministerial decisions
have already been signed, in particular, one between the Ministry of the
Interior and Municipalities (MICL) and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development (MADR). The former is represented by the wali
(governor), the chief administrator in each province. Hence, coordination
for rural development is assured under the wali, implicating diverse
ministries involved in rural development such as water resources, housing,
health, education, etc. The proposed Second Rural Employment Rural Project
will thus be the driving element of the PDAR and mise en valeur en
- 3 -



proximite efforts in the targeted wilayate as well as the country as a
whole.
Financing of PNDAR. The PNDAR programs are financed through arrangements
supported by different funds. The most important of these are the National
Fund for the Regulation and Development of Agriculture (Fond National de
la Regulation et de Developpement Agricole - FNRDA), which is now joined
by the Fund for Rural Development and Land Development by Concessions
(Fonds de Developpement Rural et de Mise en Valeur des Terres par
Concessions - FDRMVTC). The FNRDA combines the two old funds for the
Minimum Guaranteed Prices and the National Fund for Agricultural
Development (Fond National de Developpement Agricole - FNDA). The National
Agricultural Credit Union (Caisse National de Mutualite Agricole - CNMA),
through its regional agencies of the Regional Agricultural Credit Union
(Caisse National de Mutualite Agricole - CRMA), and the Agricultural and
Rural Development Bank (Banque de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural
- BADR) through its agencies, are the specialized financial institutions
for the management of the funds mentioned above.
The agricultural sector has been allocated a Program Authorization
(Autorisation de Programme - AP) of 65 billion DA under the PSRE, which is
equivalent to 12 percent of the total AP of 525 billion DA for a five year
period (2001-2004). This total will be higher if the irrigation sector
components, which are currently under the Hydraulique heading, and the
rural infrastructure activities are included. The bulk of the AP for
agriculture has been allocated to the reinforcement of programs supported
by FNRDA (53.9 billion DA).
There is a close dialogue and cooperation between the Government and the
Bank in agriculture and rural development, which will be strengthened
through the Institutional Development Component for MADR, focusing on
training and studies on areas such as capacity development, M&E systems,
rural poverty reduction, food security and competitiveness, agricultural
credit mechanisms, etc. These activities will complement and provide
inputs for the Rural Development Sector Strategy Note, planned for FY03.
2. Objectives
The Project seeks to generate and stimulate rural employment in poor rural
mountainous areas of northwest and north-central Algeria. In the first
instance, the Project aims to respond in the short-term to the critical
problem of unemployment in the target rural areas through direct
employment creation, using labor-intensive civil works for natural
resource management emphasizing soil erosion control. The longer-term
perspective emphasizes the instrument of asset creation for stimulating
employment, mainly through natural resource management, protection of the
environment, water resource mobilization, and income-generating rural
development activities aiming at the substitution of perennial tree crops
in place of annual cereal production, with the purpose of increasing labor
productivity in a sustainable manner.
Asset creation is defined broadly as the enhanced availability of
resources that can be used directly or indirectly in productive
activities. Examples are infrastructure with important externalities;
maintenance of the natural resource base by reducing soil erosion;
perennial fruit tree orchards and vineyards adapted and appropriate for
the agro-ecological environment instead of annual low productivity
cereals; enhanced availability of water for irrigation and human
- 4 -



consumption; etc. Unemployment is a structural problem in Algeria. Hence,
longer term solutions are necessary to address the problem. Short term
solutions such as direct transfers can alleviate shortfalls in income and
consumption flows but need to be complemented by actions and measures with
durable effects. In that context, it is necessary to focus on asset
creation which will have longer term effects, particularly on labor
productivity.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The contributions of the Bank stem from the international experience
gained in employment and social safety net type projects. This experience
was influential in changing the policy perspectives in the MADR and DGF
from relatively more capital-intensive towards small-scale,
labor-intensive options. Again based on its international experience, the
Bank has been able to cast the seeds of participatory approaches, limited
and gradual as they may have been initially. This has been a major
improvement over traditional top-down approaches. DGF has also found the
technical, environmental, economic and social perspectives that the Bank
has introduced to be effective, even if they were cumbersome to implement
initially. This has now increased the rigor of the activities that DGF
designs and implements. The Bank's emphasis on decentralized
implementation and in the project design has encouraged and reinforced the
decentralization of the DGF with activities that complement technical
capacity with project management. Finally, the institutional development
component targeting MADR will also benefit from Bank experience in policy
analysis, M&E and participatory development.
4. Description
Project design focuses on the basic objectives of direct and indirect
employment creation. Direct employment creation aims to respond to the
immediate problem of high unemployment in the project area, and indirect
employment creation aims to enhance the options for medium to long term
development for more sustainable employment through increased and more
diversified production, both on-farm and off-farm through increased demand
for upstream and downstream services. The project also aims to integrate
rural women in project activities through direct access to project
activities in general and through specific activities targeting rural
women, difficult as this may prove to be given the existing socio-cultural
conditions.
As indicated in Annex 11 on Social Assessment, the project focuses on
participatory approaches in order to enhance ownership of interventions
and activities that are responsive to beneficiaries' needs. A preliminary
survey, using project staff who received basic training in participatory
approaches, assisted by trainers who had received training under the
ongoing Rural Employment Project (PER1 - Loan 4143-AL) and coordinated by
a team of consultants, used diverse techniques to assess the needs and
constraints of men and women in the project zones (see Sondage
Preliminaire in Documents in Project Files). This was a new experience for
both the project staff and the beneficiaries in the project zones: the
former for being able to work closely with the beneficiaries and respond
to their needs, and the latter to find government agencies interested in
their perspective on issues and priorities. As a consequence, project
components were modified during project preparation to reflect the
critical constraints in the project zone. These changes are mainly in the
- 5-



increased emphasis on water resource mobilization and technical aspects of
diversification. Ultimately, project implementation will also entail a
degree of flexibility as is the case under PER1, to adapt to evolving
conditions.
The project will comprise the following components to be implemented by
the centralized and decentralized administration of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR) and the General Directorate of
Forestry (DGF) through competitive market based procurement procedures,
emphasizing small lots as the basis of contracts to encourage SME.
Component 1: Soil Erosion Control (Total cost US$ 50.2 million; US$ 40.1
million Bank financing)
This is the critical project component that will serve as the instrument
for direct short-term employment creation, using labor-intensive
techniques. The emphasis is on natural resource management targeting the
critical problem of soil erosion. A critical aspect of this component is
the employment of forest area riparians in a participatory manner to
ensure the sustainability of interventions. Furthermore, where pertinent,
forestry and forage species will be combined in planting activities to
respond to the agro-pastoral characteristic of the project zone and
pastoral management plans will be developed to promote the sustainable
exploitation of the natural resource base for grazing.
Specific activities comprise the following: reforestation; river bank
management; terracing and biological control; flood control
infrastructures; forestry rehabilitation; and silvicultural activities.
Component 2: Agricultural Development (Total cost US$ 66.7 million; US$
34.4 million Bank financing)
This component aims to address employment within a medium to long term
perspective through agricultural development activities in the mountainous
project areas. These areas are currently characterized by a
cereal-livestock system, mainly barley for feed and some wheat, and
livestock, mainly ovines (sheep and goats). This component aims to
diversify the production base by expanding the limited fruit tree
production in the project area. Participation is a critical element of
most agricultural development activities. In fruit tree planting
activities beneficiaries will contribute to 50 percent of costs for
digging the troughs and planting the trees. This participation will be
either in the form of labor or actual financial contribution. No
mechanical methods will be allowed except for the deep ploughing necessary
for viticulture. In land clearing, beneficiaries will contribute 30
percent of costs through labor or finances. Women will benefit from
agricultural development activities in an integral manner as well as
through specific activities targeting rural women.
Fruit tree, grapevine and small livestock activities will be closely
associated with extension efforts through the Wilayate Agricultural
Services Directorates (DSA - Directions des Services Agricoles) and the
Wilayate Forestry Directorates (CDF - Conservations des Forots), with
emphasis on the requirements for reaching female beneficiaries, choice of
adapted species, cultural practices, including water-saving irrigation
- 6 -



methods.
Specific activities under this component are: rustic fruit tree
plantations and irrigated fruit tree plantations; viticulture; plant
material production; windbreaks; land clearing; rural roads (upgrading and
rehabilitation); small livestock production; and artisanal activities.
Component 3: Water Resource Mobilization (Total Cost US$ 15.5 million;
US$12.4 million Bank financing)
Water resource mobilization is critical to project activities. The project
zone is characterized by low rainfall with significant intra- and
inter-annual variation. While irrigation is practiced in the lower valleys
through large irrigation schemes, in the mountainous and hilly areas the
water potential is not adequately exploited for irrigation or potable
water. In the project zone, capturing and managing existing water
resources will be a critical factor in relieving some of the risks arising
from variable agro-climatic conditions. This will also make clean potable
water available to rural populations. As for irrigation, certain
activities will require the prerequisite of water availability (e.g.,
irrigated fruit trees). Irrigation, in general, will allow more intensive
and diversified agricultural production. Close coordination will be
maintained with the Directions Hydraulique de Wilaya (DHW - Governorate
Water Directorates) in water resource mobilization activities,
particularly for the activities of hill dams and wells. The choice of the
sites for the hill dams and deep wells will be authorized by the DHW,
complemented by additional studies and exploratory drilling where
necessary. In all cases, water has to be of adequate quantity and quality
for the subsequent investment activity to be authorized.
The specific activities under this component are as follows: hill dams
(retenues collinaires) (where the height of the dam does not exceed 15
meters); water points; rehabilitation of springs; and shallow (30 - 50 m)
and deep (50 - 100 m) wells.
A hill dam will be subject to several conditions for the associated
investments to be authorized by the Bank:
Compliance with safeguards related to safety of dams (OP4.37) where
necessary;
Prior environmental impact studies; and
Prior establishment and training of water users associations (WUA).
Depending on the scale of the operation, WUA would also be required for
deep wells.
Complementary water saving irrigation equipment, such as drip irrigation
systems, will be financed under the ongoing PNDAR/FNRDA activities.
Component 4: Support for the Central Project Management Unit (Cellule
Centrale de Gestion du Projet - CCGP) and Wilaya Coordination and
Management Units (Cellules de Coordination et de Gestion de Wilaya - CCGW)
(Total Cost US$ 4.6 million; US$ 3.2 million Bank financing)
This component covers diverse activities such as training for DGF staff,
-7 -



required studies, consultant services for M&E, and equipment and vehicles
for the project management and implementation structure. The two important
elements of this component are the training in participatory approaches
for project staff and the independent M&E. These two activities are recent
innovations for the DGF which are also having wider effect in other MADR
projects.
Specific activities will entail the following: (i) training activities
such as participatory approaches, with a special perspective on
gender-specific issues pertaining to women, targeting both male and female
DGF staff; project management; information technology (IT), technical
forestry subjects, etc.; (ii) studies such as the baseline survey,
technical and environmental studies for water resource mobilization and
rural road activities and marketing and socioeconomic impact; Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) which will be carried out by independent consultants
in a manner complementary to project implementation; and (iii) equipment
comprising computers; office equipment, and vehicles.
Component 5: Institutional Development for the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development (MADR) (Total Cost US$ 4.5 million; US$ 3.5 million Bank
financing)
During sectoral strategy discussions in the context of the new CAS and
during project preparation, complementarities between some of the PNDAR
and the two Rural Employment Projects objectives and instruments were
noted in areas such as production diversification, protection of natural
resources and water resource mobilization. Hence, a broader Institutional
Development component for MADR was developed, targeting both the broader
areas of policy design and implementation and M&E of development programs,
and the specific context of the project area. For the project area, the
focus would be on the complementarities between wilaya (governorate) level
agencies, namely, the CDF, the DSA, and the Wilaya Water Directorates
(Directions Hydrauliques de Wilaya - DHW), providing them with adequate
training and/or equipment to ensure effective support to the collaborative
project efforts in areas such as extension, facilitation of credit
applications, etc. On the general focus of the Institutional Development
component, a significant part of the resources would be allocated to
training programs targeting the decentralized administration. This
training would facilitate capacity development in implementing
market-oriented rural development programs, giving authority and
responsibility to regional and wilaya staff through diverse tools such as
participatory approaches.
The Institutional Development activities for MADR comprise the following:
training for the central and decentralized administration on rural
development strategies; impact assessment of development policies and
policy analysis instruments; M&E instruments and methods, and pilot
integrated rural development projects for training purposes. The
Institutional Development activities will also incorporate gender-specific
matters focusing on women and targeting both male and female staff.
Erosion control measures
Agricultural development
Water resource mobilization
Support for the CCGP and CCGW
Institutional Development for MADR
-8-



Unallocated
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $24.22
IBRD $95.00
IDA
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY $23.67
Total Project Cost $142.89
6. Implementation
Implementation period: Five and a half years (last six months for ex post
assessment).
Executing agency: General Directorate of Forestry (DGF) of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR) for the first four components
(Erosion Control; Agricultural Development; Water Resource Mobilization;
and Support for the CCGP and CCGW) and the Directorate of Investment
Programming and Economic Studies (DPIEE) of the MADR for the fifth
component (Institutional Development for the MADR).
The project will use the same implementation design as the ongoing Rural
Employment Project (Loan 4143-AL), with minor modifications. The staff of
the CDF in charge of implementing the ongoing project met with the staff
of the CDF in the proposed project and discussed organizational issues,
among others, in the context of lessons learnt. In addition, the
Conservateurs of the proposed project have had a field visit to observe
implementation of the ongoing project in September 2002.
This implementation design maintains the basis of the decentralized DGF
structure, which devolves responsibility for day-to-day management of
project activities to local levels of the wilaya level organization:
Central level. A central project management unit (CCGP) within the DGF
would be responsible for overall project coordination and administration,
including project accounting and disbursement; management of the project
special account; and ensuring timely audits and M&E (see below). It would
also be the principal interlocutor of the Bank on procurement matters,
periodic progress reporting, etc., in accordance with procedures agreed
upon at appraisal and integrated into the PIM, similar to those used in
the ongoing Rural Employment Project. CCGP staff will entail a
multidisciplinary team comprising a project manager (Chef de Projet), a
forester/agronomist (to be nominated), an economist, a sociologist and an
accountant responsible for procurement and financial management. There
will be close coordination with the Project Management Unit (CGP) of the
ongoing Rural Employment Project.
Regional level. The DGF's Directorates (CDF) in each wilaya will be
responsible for project implementation, which will be coordinated by a
wilaya level project management unit (CCGW) under the responsibility of
the Director (Conservateur) and headed by a unit chief (Chef de Cellule).
The CCGW will have technical expertise, staff responsible for procurement
and financial management, staff in charge of the integration of rural
women in project activities and office staff. Specifically, CCGW will
execute the annual programs and coordinate project actions in the
respective wilayate at the level of the perimeter (see next point); manage
-9-



the human, financial and material resources at the wilaya level, including
procurement for works; and coordinate the M&E of project performance at
the wilaya level, through supervising each perimeter. The CCGW will be
responsible for liaison with the DGF hierarchy as well as public and
private agencies or organizations (Chambers of Agriculture, NGO,
cooperatives, Directorates of Agricultural Services - DSA, Directorates of
Water Resources-DHW, extension agents, etc.).
Communal level. Groups of 6-12 contiguous communes in the project area
will be organized into Perimeters (PerimOtres) under a Chef de PerimOtre.
The Perimeter will be the basic unit for project implementation and
interface with the communities, with support from the CCGW staff. The
Perimeter will be responsible for the physical monitoring of project
activities as well as the linkages with the communities. The Perimeter
staff will comprise the technical DGF staff at the circonscription
(commune) level.
For the Institutional Development component for MADR, the implementing
agency will be the Directorate of Investment Programming and Economic
Studies (DPIEE) of the MADR. However, to facilitate processes and take
advantage of the experience of the DGF, procurement will be managed by the
DGF, while DPIEE, through the services of a consultant, will be in charge
of developing the TOR for the various institutional development activities
under the component and supervise and coordinate the products.
At the perimeter level, commune level DGF field staff will work directly
with beneficiaries at the grass roots douar level, using participatory
approaches in implementing the project. This process will enhance
bottom-up flows that will affect project activities. In order to ensure
that the project reaches out the intended beneficiaries, specific
targeting criteria have been incorporated in the project design (See Annex
11 on Social Assessment). The use of a double approach to beneficiary
targeting (self-targeting mechanisms and direct targeting by the DGF
staff) will allow vulnerable groups to be the main beneficiaries of
project interventions. All DGF field agents who will be involved in
project implementation will receive training on participatory and
gender-sensitive approaches that will help them build effective
partnerships with the project beneficiaries.
Within the above decentralized management framework, project activities
would be executed mainly by local private and public enterprises through
competitive processes. Force account will not be used. Maintenance of
investments on private lands will be the responsibility of the
beneficiaries themselves. For certain water resource mobilization
activities, water users associations (WUA) will be established to manage
and maintain the water infrastructures through a cahier de charges.
The Project organization described above is in place, with all but a few
staff remaining to be nominated. Some of these staff have already
benefited from ongoing training in participatory approaches and project
management. They have also been actively involved in project preparation
activities. One area which needs to be improved upon is the
identification, recruitment and maintaining of effective female staff who
will be the main counterparts of women beneficiaries. The inherent
difficulties reflect partly the social and cultural context and are
expected to be resolved gradually during project implementation.
- 10 -



Project organization will reinforced with diverse training activities for
project management, M&E, gender issues, participatory approaches,
technical training, IT training, etc., and be equipped with vehicles and
office equipment.
The responsibility for the financial management of the project for the
first four components of PER2 will be with the DGF, and for the fifth
component will be with the DPIEE. The financial management system at the
implementing agencies is based on principles and procedures defined by the
legal framework applicable to the public sector which follow strict
enforcement procedures through formal stages of expenditure (commitment,
service delivery, payment order, and payment). The financial management
system, which is summarized in Annex 6b and detailed in the PIM, is
adequate and meet the minimum accounting and reporting requirements of the
Bank for accounting and reporting. Both the DGF and each of the six CDF
will incur project expenditures, and approve payments following the budget
execution processes that are in line with the prevailing laws and
regulations in Algeria. The Banque Algerienne de Developpement (BAD) and
its regional offices acting both as the financial controller (Contr¶leur
financier) and the public treasurer (Tresorerie Publique) will be
responsible for control of expenditure and making payments. On a
centralized basis, at the DGF, the CCGP will be responsible for
accounting, record-keeping and reporting functions. The CCGP will
undertake all the required administrative functions relating to the budget
at the central level at the DGF. In this connection, the CCGP's financial
management functions will be integrated with the already existing
structures at the DGF. CGP will consolidate financial records from the CDF
as part of its coordination function. At the decentralized level, in each
of the six CDF, the Coordinators will keep the accounting and financial
recording of the transactions on a contract-accounting basis similar to
the one that is already in use for the ongoing PER1. With respect to fifth
component which will be managed on a centralized basis, the CCGP will
perform the same functions for the DPIEE.
The CCGP will also be responsible for the preparation of the quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) and the annual Project Financial
Statements (PFS). The content and format of the FMR have been discussed
and agreed upon with the Borrower and this will be documented during
negotiations. The PFS will be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Project organization charts and job descriptions for different levels of
project management are available in Project Files.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the Project would depend on both macroeconomic
policies concerning the labor market, and microeconomic factors related to
the project environment. An over-riding aspect related to sustainability
and risks is that reasonably stable conditions would be maintained in the
project area.
There are two factors to consider on the macroeconomic front, which depend
on the transition process as Algeria moves towards a private sector and
market based economy.
n Consistent employment policies would need to be implemented in
- 11 -



nonagricultural sectors, especially in promoting employment in industry
and services. Agriculture should not be expected to absorb labor in a
disproportionate manner, after accounting for differences in social costs
of maintaining labor in rural and urban areas. SME-SMI, which would
utilize more labor-intensive techniques than the large-scale
capital-intensive public enterprises, would need to be encouraged in rural
areas to promote labor absorption. Ultimately, labor-intensive
industrialization and complementary macroeconomic and structural policies
would be needed for a coherent employment strategy.
n The long-term policy perspective for poverty reduction would have to
emphasize asset creation which would increase labor productivity, rather
than purely social transfers.
With respect to the Institutional Development component for MADR, it is
expected that training on strategic perspectives and policy analysis will
improve the effectiveness of the central agricultural administration.
Furthermore, training for central and decentralized staff in project
design, analysis, management, M&E and impact assessment will also enhance
the coordination and implementation of decentralized rural development
programs. However, as is the case with all strategic thinking and policy
analysis, the receptivity of the political decision makers to the options
developed will be critical to their translation into action. The Bank
would need to maintain an open continuous policy dialogue with the
Government in this context.
In the specific case of the sustainability of project interventions, there
are seven elements:
n Adequate O&M resources need to be allocated in the budget for
maintenance activities to be managed by the Government. This is an issue
that merits attention in the context of a Public Expenditure Review (PER)
and Agricultural Expenditure Review (AER). However, the priority given to
rural employment by the Government is reflected in the increased resources
being allocated to the DGF and its organization in a decentralized
structure.
n Financing of O&M costs of interventions on public lands during the life
of the Project would be shared between the Bank and the Government due to
the incremental nature of the interventions. Costs of interventions on
private lands would be shared by the beneficiaries through in kind (e.g.,
as family labor) or financial contributions, as these interventions are
expected to create externalities in reducing soil erosion. Subsequently,
O&M expenditures would be the responsibility of the Government for
activities on public lands and the beneficiaries for activities on private
lands and are included in financial and economic analyses. In particular,
all maintenance costs for interventions on private lands would be borne by
the beneficiaries of agricultural development type interventions. In water
resource mobilization operations for the retenues collinaires, WUA would
take over the management of the infrastructure as a concession and
contribute towards O&M.
n In this respect, developing capacity for participatory approaches to
promote community involvement is critical for the proposed Project and for
the longer term programs of the Government. The involvement of communities
in project activities through participatory approaches has been a radical
departure from traditional top-down approaches. Gradual as it may be, it
has increased the sensitivity of the communities to the justification for
- 12 -



the interventions and enhanced their "ownership" of the resources created,
leading to better chances for sustainability.
n One other aspect that would contribute to the sustainability of project
interventions is the increased income flows from diversified production,
namely fruit trees and grapes. These income flows will enhance the
maintenance of the on-farm investments.
n As the Government has parallel programs under PNDAR to promote the
conversion of marginal cereal lands to fruit trees, the gradual increase
in fruit tree production could bring about decreases in fruit prices.
Currently, demand for fruits is strong, particularly for almonds and
pommiers and Algeria imports fruits. A marketing study is being initiated
by the DGF and fruit prices will be monitored during project
implementation with view towards program adjustments.
n The project focus in general and the specific actions, particularly the
erosion control interventions, are consistent with the National
Environmental Action Plan for Sustainable Development (PNAE-DD) developed
partly with Bank support and discussed in an international conference in
Algiers in June 2002.
n Finally, as indicated in the strategic context of the project, the
ongoing Rural Employment Project has influenced policy perspectives on
matters related to decentralized operations and participatory approaches
for rural development. In this context, a new Agricultural and Rural
Development Program (PDAR) is being developed in the spirit of the Rural
Employment Project with a "mise en valeur en proximite" perspective,
implicating the decentralized administration of other ministries in the
wilayate as well. The proposed Second Rural Employment Rural Project will
thus be the driving element of the PDAR and mise en valeur en proximite
efforts in the targeted wilayate as well as the country as a whole.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The ongoing Rural Employment Project (Loan 4143-AL) has produced
considerable experience, both positive and negative, from which important
lessons can be derived. These experiences are being assessed in a
systematic manner by the Borrower, through the services of the independent
consultants in charge of M&E and have been utilized during project
preparation. Conceptually, Bank experience with rural development projects
using participatory approaches, such as the North-West Forestry
Development projects in Tunisia, have also borne evidence and provided
guidance on project design matters with respect to technical and social
issues. Some of the lessons derived are summarized below:
Institutional
n Decentralized and flexible project implementation increases ownership
among implementation staff. Participatory approaches improve communication
between administration staff and the close and open dialogue between the
administration and the communities lead to increased trust, confidence and
effective results. The use of these dynamic methods has caused a profound
change in mentality at both the central and decentralized levels of the
DGF. As a result, PER2 staff in the six wilayate were actively involved in
the preliminary survey that was carried out and were able to see the
benefits of working closely with communities. Training is planned under
PER2 for such methods.
n It is important to have a motivated and efficient banking system to
- 13 -



facilitate smooth procurement and disbursement. Project implementation
experienced delays resulting from slow transfer of funds and payments to
the executing units, which was compounded at the level of the local
offices of the Banque Algerienne de Developpement (BAD). As a mitigating
measure, the ongoing project shifted to a direct credit de paiement (CP)
system which will also be used in the proposed project.
Project design
n Flexibility must be built into project design, particularly when
implementing a project in areas where there are problems due to the
current conjuncture. A flexible design allowed the implementing agency and
the Bank to adjust the implementation program without causing serious
delays. Flexibility also allows the inclusion of changing perspectives of
the beneficiary communities.
n Impact on poverty reduction and implications for targeting. The project
requirement of beneficiary contribution to costs through labor input has
proven to be an effective self-targeting mechanism. Poor farmers are
willing to offer family labor as part of investments in productive assets
financed by the project. Yet, in some cases, owners of medium-size
holdings also benefited from the project. In order to ensure that the
typical profile of project beneficiaries remains the rural poor, a
two-pronged approach to beneficiary targeting will be used, combining
self-targeting mechanisms with direct targeting by the DGF field staff
based on direct observations on beneficiaries' assets and livelihood
strategies.
n In rural areas in the project zones, in communes, douar, villages, etc.,
there are uncultivated and marginal lands in the public domain (i.e.,
state property) that are de facto used as commons for grazing. As such,
they provide meager nutrition for livestock and over-exploitation leads to
the adverse environmental consequence of soil erosion. The project aims to
design actions to revive these areas under the soil erosion control
component through the use of an appropriate mix of plant material
comprising forestry and forage species (trees and bushes) for both long
term and short term perspectives for forage provision and soil
stabilization. This will be done through Pastoral Management Plans (PAP -
Plans d'Amenagement Pastoral), which is a participatory tool successfully
used in the ongoing PER1, whereby riparians are surveyed to assess
characteristics and preferences, are involved in the choice of methods and
species and assume responsibility in managing the plantations with respect
to rotation and intensity of use. The PAP will be supported by appropriate
extension activities in technical areas.
n Project design will also encourage effective private sector
participation in project implementation. In the ongoing PER1, critical
thresholds for prior review were kept low to encourage the use of small
procurement lots, which allowed SME with limited means to participate
competitively for works. In addition, force account was categorically
excluded. Thus, today, nearly two thirds of the financial volume of works
implementation is by the SME generating an impact in PSD. Private sector
participation increases implementation efficiency. The elimination of
force account implementation and the use of competitive procedures have
resulted in improved activity designs and reduced unit costs.
n In contrast, SME participation in forestry activities was limited.
Technical specifications for forestry related activities were more rigid
and in some cases, forestry areas faced problems due to the conjuncture.
- 14 -



These implicit and explicit risks precluded SME participation in forestry
activities. As such, these activities have remained in the domain of
public enterprises, which have exhibited a varied performance, generally
more problematic on average than the private sector. The situation has
since improved and SME are expected to participate in forestry activities.
n To increase competitiveness and SME participation in forestry plantation
activities in a country where the public sector dominates the production
of seedlings, it is necessary to separate the production of seedlings from
the planting and maintenance processes. Thus, in the proposed project,
plants will be independently produced under competitive contracts for the
DGF and will be provided to firms for planting.
n Procurement processes with SME do pose some problems. One issue during
project implementation arose with firms which successfully bid for several
lots. Some of these decide subsequently to withdraw because they do not
have adequate capacity to undertake all the bids they have won. This
causes implementation delays as the procurement process has to be
extended. As a mitigating measure, DGF is compiling a register of
accredited firms to minimize such disruptions, which in itself is
considered counterproductive (see Annex 6.A). Such accreditation is not
acceptable to the Bank. Instead, objective eligibility criteria will be
incorporated in bidding documents to ensure that firms with adequate
capacity, means and technical staff participate in procurement activities.
n Early on in the implementation of the ongoing Rural Employment Project,
delays were observed at the decentralized implementation of procurement at
the wilaya level where the review and clearance processes have affected
the time bound biological activities. These problems have been resolved
and procurement takes place in a timely manner now. In addition, the Walis
and officials of the proposed project areas were sensitized to this
concern and they provided their assurances, emphasizing the priority
nature of the project for the Government.
n Environmental impact assessment. It is important to set aside adequate
time to carry out the EIA for specific activities (e.g., hill dams), as
these studies can often take longer than anticipated, causing
implementation delays. The ongoing PER1 suffered implementation delays for
various reasons linked to the preparation of such studies. To avoid a
similar occurrence it has been decided to start the preparation of these
prerequisite studies as soon as the project is effective.
fn Integrating women in project activities. Women's activities must be
included as an integral part of project activities to increase their
potential benefits. Given the circumstances in 1996, when the ongoing
Rural Employment Project was prepared, women were incorporated in a
marginal way and somewhat limited to a predetermined set of activities.
Yet, the active role of the female forestry agents in identifying and
reaching women door-to-door was very effective and recognized by the
beneficiaries themselves. In the proposed project, through a more thorough
assessment of women's needs and priorities, women will be integrated into
the project in a fundamental manner.
n In harsh climates, such as that in the project intervention zone,
species must be selected so that they are sufficiently adapted to target
sites to improve survival, productivity and environmental benefits
envisaged from improved vegetative cover.
n Preparatory activities for more bulky investments (e.g., engineering
studies for rural roads and hill dams) have been slow and have caused
implementation delays. The experience gained will now allow for a more
realistic procurement planning for these activities.
- 15 -



Monitoring and evaluation
n The use of an independent M&E consultant is an effective approach as it
leaves the implementing agency sufficient time to attend to the day-to-day
project implementation while the consultant focuses on assessing impact,
using specialists in diverse areas. The objective views of the independent
consultant provided a critical perspective on project progress in terms of
the successes to build upon as well as corrective measures for the
problems identified.
n The use of an independent local consultant firm has also been
particularly important given the difficult situation due to the
conjuncture, which has limited Bank staff missions in the field. Being
independent of the implementing agency, the M&E consultant has provided
the Bank with an objective and detailed view of the situation in the
field, even during very difficult times when Bank missions could not visit
the field. The limited field visits by Bank staff subsequently confirmed
the M&E consultant's observations. This modality will be applied again to
the proposed project, first due to the efficiency of the arrangement, and
second due to the continuing conjunctural situation.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Project activities are expected to result in
positive environmental benefits and significant environmental issues are
not anticipated. The project area exhibits acute soil erosion and
degradation. The project's emphasis on measures that would result in
controlled run-off, reduced soil erosion and increased ground cover should
contribute to alleviating this issue. However, possible environmental
issues could stem from activities such as the construction of hill dams
and rural roads (upgrading and rehabilitation). For these activities,
specific EA activities will be carried out during implementation phase of
the project. For the regions covered by the project and extending over
six wilayate (Tiaret, Tissemsilt, Chlef, Ain Defla, Bouira and Medea)
detailed reports describing the technical, environmental, social and
economical aspects of the projects have been prepared during the
preparation phase. The environmental analyses conducted for each project
zone have provided the basis for a Regional Environmental Assessment (REA)
as the appropriate environmental assessment instrument in compliance with
the guidelines set forth in the relevant Bank's Operational Policy (OP
4.01). The REA has been disclosed in-country, in the project areas as well
as at DGF headquarters. Moreover, the project is participatory by design
and contains many features and tools that will ensure appropriate
stakeholder participation. One of these tools will be Pastoral Management
Plans to respond to the needs of agro-pastoralists as well as to
environmental concerns by incorporating an appropriate balance of forage
and forest plants in reforestation type activities. The experience of Ras
El Ma in Sidi Bel Abbes under the ongoing Rural Employment Project, where
similar issues are being addressed in a participatory manner through a
Pastoral Management Plan, will serve as a model. The potential issue of
pesticide use as a result of project activities has been addressed
although it is considered not significant considering the cultural
patterns and practices in the project zones. Nevertheless, this aspect
will be monitored appropriately during the course of the project by DGF,
CDF and DSA (Direction des Services Agricoles) with the assistance of the
National Plant Protection Institute (INPV - Institut National de la
Protection des Vegetaux).
- 16 -



10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Kutlu Somel
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 2499
Fax: 202 477 1609
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 28, 2002.
- 17 -



