Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C-?    ZJ./IC  - l
Report No. 8319-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
Whis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their officihi dutfes. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed witbout World Bank authorization.



KENYA: FOURTH POPMLATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENYal
Currency Unit              Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 20                     K Kenya Pound (KL) 1
US$ 1.00          =        KSh 21.78 (Feb. 15, 1990)
US$ 1.00          -        SDR 1.33kL
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                  =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m)        = 10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq.km) = 0.386 square miles
GOVERNKSNT FISCAL YEAR
July 1      =      June 30
a/   Since August 1985 the Kenya shilling has been pegged to a basket of
currencies. The rate vis-a-vis the US dollar fluetuates. A rate of
US$1.00 K RSh 22 has been used in appraising this project.
b/   As of February 16, 1990.
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Kenya in November 1989 and consisted of Dr. V. Jagdish, Ms. J. Armstrong
(Bank Staff), and Messrs/Mmes. N. Binkin, A. Hudgins, K. Ichoya, B.                        N
Jacobson, and P.C. Mohan (Consultants).  Mr. Peter Godwin represented ODA
on the mission. Mr. Dennis Mahar, Chief AF2PH participated in the last
week of the mission.
.



RENYA: FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Abbreviations
CPD       Community Based Distribution
CPR       Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CMASK     Crescent Medical Aid Society of Kenya
DFE       Division of Family Health, Ministry of Health
DPFPC     District Population and Family Planning Committee
DPO       District Population Officer
ECN       Enrolled Community Nurse
FINNIDA Finnish International Development Agency
FP        Family Planning
FPAK      Family Planning Association of Keanya
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNP       Gross National Product
GOK       Government of Kenya
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IEC       Information, Education and Communication
IMR       Infant Mortality Rate
IRHFP     Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning
I1T       Intra-uterine Device
KAP       Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
KCPS      Kenya Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
KCS       Kenya Catholic Secretariat
EQOS      Kenya Demographic and Health Survey
KFS       Kenya Fertility Survey
KNE       Kenyatta National Hospital
KRCN      Kenya Registered Community Nurse
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
LIB       Limited International Bidding
LMIS      Logistics Management Information System
MCH       Maternal and Child Health
MSCU      Medical Supplies Coordinating Unit
MOU       Ministry of Health
MOHANH    Ministry of Home Affairs and National Heritage
MTTAT     Ministry of Technical Training and Applied Technology
NCPD      National Council for Population and Development
NGO       Non-Government Organization
NORAD     Norwegian Development Agency
ODA       Overseas Development Administration
SDA       Seventh Day Adventist
SDP       Service Delivery Point
SDR       Special Drawing Right
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
SOE       Statement of Expenditure
TFR       Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA     United Natiore Fund for Population Activities
USAID     United Stacas Agency for International Development
VFT       Vaginal Foaming Tablets
VSC       Voluntary Surgical Contraception
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYAt FOIJRTH POPULATION PROJECT
Definitions
Age Specific Fertility Rate:        Number of live births to women in a
given age group per 1,000 woman in the
same age group, in a given year.
Contraceptive Prevalence Ratet      The percentage of married women of
reproductive age who are using (or
whose husbands are using) any form of
contraception.
Crude Birth Rate:                   The number of births per 1,000
population in a given year.
Crude Death Rate:                   The number of deaths per 1,000
population in a given year.
Dependency Ratio:                   The ratio of the economically dependent
part of the population to the
productive part, arbitrarily defined as
the ratio of the young (those under 15
years of age) plus the elderly (those
65 years of age and over) to the
population in the "working ages, (those
15 to 64 years of age).
Infant Mortality Rate:              The number of deaths of infants under
one year old in a given year per 1,000
live births in that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:           The average number of years a newborn
would live if current age-specific
mortality rate trends prevailing at the
time of birth were to continue.
Net Reproduction Rate:              The average number of daughters that
would be born to a woman (or group of
women) if during her lifetime she were
to conform to the age specific
fertility and mortality rates of a
given year. A net reproduction rate of
1.00 means that each generation of
mothers is having exactly enough
daughters to replace itself in the
population.



Rate of Natural Increaset           The rate at which a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a given
year due to surplus (or deficit) of
births over deaths expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Rate of Population Growths          The rate at which a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a given
year due to natural increase and net
migration, expressed as a percentage of
thie base population.
Total Fertility Rate:               The average number of children that
would be born alive to a woman (or
group of women) during her lifetime if
during her child-bearing years she were
to bear children at each age in accord
with prevailing age-specific fertility
rates.



KENYA: FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Basic Data.L
Area                                                   569,249 sq.km
Population (1989)                                      23.3 million
Rural                                             18.1 million
Urban                                              5.2 million
Population Growth Rate                                 3.6?
Population Density                                     40 persons/km2
Crude Birth Rate                                       46.3/1000 births
Crude Death Rate                                       10.411000 deaths
Infant Mortality Rate                                  68/1000 births
Total Fertility RatekL                                 6.7 children per
woman
Contraceptive Prevalence Rateb/                        27Z
(1989; all methods)
GNP per capita (1988)                                  US$360
------------------------------------
a/   Population and demographic indicators, except where noted, are World
Bank estimates.
b/  Data are taken from the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey (KDHS),
1989, (the Tocal Fertility Rate (TFR) is the average rate for the
five year period preceeding the survey).



KENYA: FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT S.M.ARY       .......................... .... i    -iii
I.        POPULATION SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES ...................1
Introduction ............................. I 
A.  Demographic Status ................... .3
B.  Population Policy and Programs ............... 6
C.  Sectoral Issues ...... . .................... . 9
D.  Role of the Bank ..........1..... .. ....0
S.   Role of Other Donors ........................11
II.       THE PROJECT.et.os  .....                               .. 12
A.  Objectives and Design ..... .. ............. 12
B.  Summary Project Description ...........1
C.  Detailed Project Description .................15
III.      PROJrECT COST AND FNANCING.....% .....................25
A. Costs ..........oo  ......  .*25
B. Financing .................  .28
C.  Procurement .............................30                           F
D.  Disbursements .......                             2
S.  Accounts and Audit.       ......... ... 32
IV.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................ 33
A.  Status of Project Preparation*...,%. *...33
B.  Organization and Management ..................33
C.  Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation .........S4
V.        ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS..S.5................ .. . .35
VI.        PROJECT BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ............. 35
A.  Benefits and Justificatiou ..................35
B. Risks ....................... 3 6



VII.      ASSURANCES AND RECOMHENDATI0N ......................... 37
TABLES
1.  Estimates of Contraceptive Usage, 1990-94 ........s
2.  Project Costs by Expenditure Category .............26
3.  Project Costs by Functional Component .............27
4.  Proposed Project Financing ........................ 28
5. Procurement Table ....................... . ..... .30
FIGRES
1.  Contraceptive Methods, Targets and Actual, 1988...2
2.  Total Fertility Rates, Selected Years .............5
3.  Contraceptive Prevalence Rates, Selected Years....5
ANNEXES
1. Statistical Annex ......... ............ . ......... .39
2. Detailed Cost Tables..... .... % .... . . .......... 50
3.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ............... 55
4.  References ................... .. .......... .S, ... 57
5.  Relevant IDA Credits  ........................ .58
6.   injectable on.aception .......................59
MUP        IBRD No. 21992



- i-
KENYA: FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
Credit and ProJect Summary
Borrower:                 Governmeut of Kenya
Amounts                   SDR 26.3 million (US$35.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiarys              National Council for Population and Development
(NCPD), Ministry of Home Affairs and National
Heritage; and
Ministry of Health (MOH)
Project Oblectivess
The proposed project has three main objectives:
(a) to further increase the availability,
accessibility, and quality of family planning
services provided by the Government and Non-
Goverrnment Organizations (NGOs); (b) to further
strengthen the demand for family planning
services through. expansion of Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) prc-rams to
additional government ministries and .Sos; and
(c) to further strengthen the capacity of the
NCPD to plan and monitor the expanding national
population program.
Proiect Descriptions      The project would increase the availability,
accessibility and quality of family planning
services provided by Government and NGOs by
Mrovision of adequate supplies of contraceptives
to cope with increasing demand and thrcugh the
improvement and strengthening of the logistics
system for contraceptives. The project will also
support the establishment of a surveillance
system for clinical contraception. Regarding
demand, the project will further expand the
coverage of information and education activities
by strengthening mass media and publicity
campaigns and continuing to encourage the
Integration of IEC activities with other
governmental and non-governmental development
programs. The project would also continue to
strengthen the NCPD and to expand district level
population programs.



-ii-
Risks:                    As with the earlier population projects in Kenya,
the main risks of this project relate to the
administrative, managerial and financial
capabilities in the Division of Family Health of
the MOH and the ability of the NCPD to coordinate
and manage an expanding multi-sectoral program.
NCPD staffing has steadily increased over the
past few years and a staff development plan is
being implemented. The NCPD is becoming more
effective in managing an expanding population
program and is expected to continue to do so.
With support for management strengthening, and
closer supervision by senior MOH management the
Division of Family Health is expected to become
more effective.



-iii-
Prolect Jatat         KENYA:  FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
US$ million
A. Estimated Costs:                      Local       Foreign      Total
1.  Contraceptive Supply and           2.0        11.8         13.8
Surveillance
2.  Promotion of Family
Planning Services                 4.9          4.1          9.0
3.  National Council for               5.4         7.1         12.e
Population Development
4.  Research and Evaluation            1.5          --          1.5
Total Base Cost                  13.8         23.1         36.9
Total Contingencies               1.8          2.6          4.4
Total Project Cost               15.6         25.7         41.3
B. Financing Plan:
Government of Kenya                    3.3         0.8          4.1
USAID                                   --         2.2          2.2
IDA                                  12.3         22.7         35.0
Total Project                         15.6        25.7         41.3
C. Estimated Credit Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ million)
FY91     FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96    FY97
Annual              2.0      3.4    4.9    6.3      7.3    6.0      5.1
Cummulative         2.0      5.4   10.3   16.6    23.9   29.9    35.0
D.  Economic Rate of Return:   Not Applicable
E. Map:   IBRD No. 21992



I. POPULATION SECTOR STATStS A"D ISSUES
Introduction
1.01      Over the past few months a number of positive developments in
Xenya's population program have become apparent. Results of a Demographic
and Health Survey conducted earlier this year show that there has been a
significant increase in the contraceptive prevalence rate. ContracepU've
usage has risen by 502 in the pLet five years. About 27Z of married women
are currently using some method of contraception. Nearly two-thirds of
these are modern methods. These trends have translated into an estimated
fert_;ity decline from 7.7 children per woman in 1984 to 6.7 at present.
1.02      The results of the demographic and health survey are very good
news for Kenya which has experienced increasing population growth rates
since Independence.  This rapid population growth has piaced enormous
strains on the country's education system, labor market and natural
environment, thus acting as a serious constraint to national economic and
social development. And while it is unlikely that the dramatic decline in
the total fertility rate will be immediately translated into a precipitous
fall in the population growth rate, nonetheless it is crucial to maintain
the recently gained momentum in Kenya's population program.
1.03      As a result of the acceleration in demand, all of the family
planning tareets set at the time of approval of the Third Population
Project have been surpassed. (See Figure 1) The demand for all types of
contraceptives has increased dramaticallyt actual use of condoms in 1988
was nearly ten times the estimated target; demand for injectables,
estimated to be 127,000 doses, was 800,000 doses; and, use of pills was
more than twice the target figure. Such growth in the use of contraception
shows no Immediate sign of slowing. After years of inactivity and little
progress, Kenya's population program appears to have finally taken off.
1.04      A number of factors help to explain the recent progress of
Kenya's population program. Undoubtedly the most ii.portant of these has
been the strong and sustained commitment at the highest levels of
Government, particularly the Office of the President, to addressing the
causes and consequences of rapid population growth. This high-visibility
support has made a major contribution to changing traditional attitudes of
Kenyans toward population and family planning.
1.05 Considerable improvements have also been made on the supply side.
Learning from experience accumulated over more than two decades, public and
private (especially NGO) lelivery systems have been vastly expanded. The
National Council for Population and Development (NCPD), the agency
responsible for overall coordination of Kenya's population program, has at
the same time been substantially strengthened both administratively and
financially. A final ingredient of success for the program has been strong
donor support, including NORAD, ODA, SIDA, UNFPA, USAID plus three IDA
credits totalling around US$45 million.



-2-
FIGURE 1
Contraceptive Methods
Targets and Actual, 1988
Millions
12                                                         .      I
10 1
4-
2-
Pills (cycles)                 Condoms
thousands
100 
60 
-no - 
40-
20-
0
Female Sterilization                IUCD
thousands
1000 
t ooo
800
400-
200
0 *
Injectable (doses)
Targetted    a  Actual



-3-
1.06      The Kenyan population program is now at a critical juncture.
Although the recent achievements are encouraging, there is a serious risk
that further progress will be jeopardized by shortage of contraceptive
supplies and weak demand in provinces with low contraceptive prevalence
rates. Furthermore, there is evidence from Asian population programs that
contraceptive prevalence tends to reach a plateau of about 25-30% unless
new incentives are introduced, such a women's incoma generating activities
which have resulted in further substantial fertility decline. Under no
circumstances can Kenya afford a break in contraceptive supplies, notably
injectables. It is under these circumstances that the current population
project is proposed. The project, quickly following the Third Population
Project. fills gaps that are mainly attributable to the recent positive
developments in the program.
1.07      The following paragraphs deal in greater depth with the
demographic situation, population policy and past experience with
population programs, sectoral issues, IDA's role and the rationale for the
proposed project.
A. Demographic Status
Recent Developments
1.08      Fertility decline.  The most significant result of the recently
released Kenya Demographic and Health Survey (KDHS) is the dramatic
reduction in the total fertility rate (TFR) during the pas4 five years from
7.7 to 6.7. (See Figure 2) The reported drop in the fertility rate has
been observed throughout the country (see Annex 1, Table 1). Yet despite
this achievement, important fertility differentials still exist among
Kenyan women associated with area of residence and level of education. For
example, Nairobi has a TFR of only 4.6 while in Western Province the TFR is
still above 8. Women in urban areas tend to have 4.8 children with rural
women having just over 7 children. Similarly, fertility differs according
to education levels achieved by women: those with no education had an
averuge 7.2 children compared to women with secondary or higher having
almost 5.
1.09      Contributory factors.  Accounting for the reported fertility
decline is a complex task and detailed analysis of the KDHS remains to be
done. Historically, however, factors which have contributed to the drop in
fertility have been increased use of contraceptives (a so-called
'proximate' cause) and socia-economic determinants such as increased age at
marriage and women's educational status. The results of the KDHS have
indeed shown the dramatic rise in the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR),
which increased by 50Z during the past five years. And, while reported use
of all methods rose, there was a shift toward more modern methods. (See
Figure 3) As with the TFR, there are substantial variations at the
provincial level despite reported increases country-wide. (See Annex 1,
Table 2) The KDHS data also show that even though Kenyan women tend to
marry young, the age at first marriage has increased. The proportion of
women who marry before age 15 hae declined from 25Z of women now aged 40-41
to only 4Z of women aged 15-19.  (See Annex 1, Table 3)  Educational levels



-4-
attained by women have also risen over time. The proportion of women aged
15-49 with no education declined from 44? in 1977/78 to 25Z in 1989.
1.10      Other factors.  There is need for further research to isolate
the determinants of Kenya's apparent fertility decline. However,
preliminary analysis of the KDHS indicate that one possible factor
explaining falling fertility in the Kenyan case is the relative cost of
children. Children are becoming increasingly "expensive* as families are
paying for items such as school uniforms, books and making contributions to
harambee funds for schools. The Government's recent introduction of user
charges for health services (other than preventive care for children) will
also contribute to the share of household income going towards investment
in school-aged children.
1.11      Fertility and population growth.  The degree to which the
observed decline in fertility becomes translated into a fall in the
population growth rate by aitering the underlying age structure is only
ascertainable by a full population census. Although the results of the
1989 Census for Kenya have not been released, it is unlikely that a
noticeable fall in the population growth rate will be observed immediately
given the underlying age structure of tUh population. Kenya's population
will continue to grow rapidly despite the drop in the TFR because of the
growing percentage of women entering their childbearing years. In other
words, although the number of children per 'oman is falling, there will be
more women of reproductive age in absolute terms. (See Annex 1, Table 4)



-5-
FIGURE 2
TOTAL FERTILITY RATE
Births per woman
l0           7.9               7.7--
10||
8                                                   7
6
4-
2-
0
1979              1Q84               1989
Source: KDHS, 1989
For Women Aged 16 - 49
TM
FIGURE 3
CURRENT CONTRACEPTIVE USE 1/
_ Traditional Methods      Modern Methods
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
27
30s
25-
17
20-
15-
10-
1977              1984               1989
Sources: KFS 1977, KCPS 1984, KDHS 1989
I/ Married Womon of Roproductivo Ago



-6-
1.12      Conseauences.  The consequences of rapid population growth are
evident. Kenya's population will continue to be young. Based on
projections from the 1979 Census, over half of Kenya's people are under the
age of 15 and will remain so until the year 2000.  (See Annex 1. Table 4)
The youthfulness of the population has a direct bearing on the ability of
the education system to accommodate larger cohorts entering schools. In
the near term, it is unlikely that the size of the school-age population
will diminish, despite falling fertility. Similarly, the ability of the
economy to absorb increasing numbers of entrants into the labor force is
also strained. Any decrease in fertility levels today will have little or
no moderating impact on the growth of the labor force during the present
century.
1.13      Despite the limited effect of the drop in fertility in the
short-term, two points are worth stressing. First, that the drop in
fertility is a very positive development rate in the African context and
may well herald the demographic transition to low growth, accompanied by
both low birth and death rates. Furthermore, had the current decline in
fertility not occurred, the negative consequences of a rapidly growing
population would have been enacerbated. Second, there is still much more
that can be done in the short-term to push fertility even lower. The KDHS
has highlighted two areas in particular where immediate efforts are
warranted, and form the basis for the proposed project: a need for an
increased and uninterrupted supply of contraceptives; and, an expansion of
IEC activities in regions where TFRs remain high and CPRs are low.
B.  Population Policy and Programs                                |
1.14      Voluntary efforts to provide family planning through
information, education and communication (IEC) and services began in the
early 19509.  These pioneering efforts led to the establishment of the
Family Planning Association of Kenya (FPAK) in 1961.  In 1967 the
Gcvernment of Kenya (GOK), recognizing the potential severe impediment to
economic and social development implied by rapid population growth, planned
and implemented Sub-Saharan Africa's first national Family Planning
program.
1.15           In 1984 the Government established as policy 1/ the
reduction of population growth by achieving a sustained decrease in
fertility. The goals of the policy are to: encourage Kenyans to have
small families; motivate males to adopt and practice family planning;
reduce infant and child mortality; improve the status of women; and,                    -
provide the population with appropriate family planning education and
contraceptive services.  The policy includes the promotion of population
information activities, in general, and in particular family life education
in schools and population awareness through the mass media.  Regarding
other services, the Government stresses that it will only support services
1/  Population Policy Guidelines, Sessional Paper No. 4, 1984.



-7-
that are non-coercive. Induced abortion is strictly illegal. Voluntary
sterilization requires written consent of the patient.
1.16      To achieve these goals, the Government has launched a broad
effort on the part of ministries, NGOs and community leaders to guide,
organize and integrate population and development programs. Particular
attention is to be paid to the role of schools. In noting changing
traditional norms, the need for population and family life education is
stressed.
NCPD and its Evolving Role
1.17      To coordinate the population activities of the ministries, NGOs
and the private sector, the Government created in 1982 the NCPD in the
Office of the Vice President and Ministry of Home Affairs and National
Heritage. The Council initially coordinated the Government's IEC Program.
In 1984, however, it was assigned a broader mandate which included: the
development and promotion of a population policy; the design of IEC,
research and service programs; and the monitoring and evaluation of
population program activities. In 1986, the NCPD's responsibilities were
revised to include the coordination of population activities at the
district level. The NCPD's Secretariat is divided into four divisions:
the Planning, Research and Evaluation Division; the Finance and
Administrative Division; the Programs Division; and the IEC Division. The
Secretariat is charged with oversight of all projects approved by the
Council and implemented by NGOs and Government ministries.
1.18      The NCPD has funded population IEC activities in various NGOs
including: the Family Planning Association of Kenya (FPAK), the National
Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK), Maendaleo Ya Wanawake (MYWO), the
Christian Health Association of Kenya (CHAK), the Salvation Army, the YMCA,
the Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT), and the Family Life
Counselling Association of Kenya.   In addition to supporting NGOs for IEC
activities, the Third Population Project is funding FP clinics for the FPAK
and upgrading 20 dispensaries for CHAK.
1.19      The NCPD has also encouraged the dissemination of population/FP
information by Government ministries. The Office of the President is
responsible for the organization and conduct of population-education
seminars for chiefs and assistant chiefs, while the Ministry of Information
and Broadcasting has been contracted to produce radio and television soap
operas aimed at increasing the general acceptance of family planning.
1.20      In 1986 the Office of the President issued "Guidelines for
District Population and Family Planning Committees" to ensure that
population and family planning activit5es were integrated with district
development efforts. The impact of rapid population growth rates on local
services is now strongly emphasized.   District Population and Family
Planning Committees (DPFPCs) are being established in all districts. These
committees, composed of representatives of government ministries, the
district administration and locally active NGOs have as their secretary the
District Population Officer (DPO). The DPO is answerable to the District
Commissioner and functionally to the NCPD. DPFPCs are expected to



-8-
encourage local populations to accept small family norms; set local family
planning acceptor targets and promote the reduction of fertility; promote
programs to reduce infant and child mortality; and oversee activities
involving family life and population education.  DPFPCs will also review
district level population programs. The success of this program to
decentralize the administration of population activities depends on the
ability of the NCPD to estialish strong district offices and to provide
them with appropriate supervision and support. To ensure the success of
this effort, the functions of the population committees and officers must
be carefully programmed. The district focus program is being implemented
in a phased manner with fourteen districts already chosen for Phase I
through the Third Population Project, w'th all DPOs in place. The Second
National Leaders' Conference gave great wyeight to the district program and
recommended rapid placement of DPOs and the establishment of district
population offices in all districts.
Ministry of Health
1.21      Governmental efforts to provide family planning services began
in 1967 when Sub-Saharan Africa's first national Family Planning (FP)
program was launched. The program, designed to limit the size of families
and to provide clients with modern methods of child spacing, was
characterized by the integration of maternal and child health (MCH)
services with family planning. The 1969 Census showed that despite
launching of FP activities the rate of population growth had actually
iacreased. The Government then gave the MOH responsibility for
implementation of a five-year MCH/FP program. This program too failed to
meet its PP goals.  The MOH was severely constrained by lack of trained
staff, inadequate facilities, poor management and a lack of commitment to
deliver FP services. In retrospect it was determined that there had been
too much reliance on one single agency (MOH) to provide FP services.
Through the Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Project and more
recently through the Third Population Project a series of steps are being
taken to strengthen the role of the MOH in FP service delivery.
1.22      The Division of Family Health in the MOB is charged with the
responsibility of planning and implementing the FP program. It has, in the
past, suffered from weak leadership, poor management and an inability to
communicate with other MOH unita and the NCPD. The past year has seen a
considerable improvement in the Division's status.  First, a Senior Deputy
Director of Medical Services has been appointed its Director. Secondly,
additional staff have been appointed to the FP program. This has resulted
in considerable improvements in communication with other MOH units and the
NCPD. Despite this promising trend much needs to be done to further
improve the management of the Division of Family Health. Unit and job
descriptions have not been prepared and this has resulted in a lack of
clear responsibilities for program management. A condition of
effectiveness is that the MOH submit an organization structure for the
Division of Family Health for review and comment by IDA and a plan for its
implementation (para. 7.01(a)).



-9-
Other Ministries
1.23      Several other ministries and departments receive support for the
integration of population IEC activities within their on-going programs.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development has been supported in
its efforts to train extension personnel to incorporate population and
family planning information in their advice to farmers. In a similar
fashion, funds have been provided to the Department of Social Services for
the training of field staff and to the Department of Adult Education for
the training of teachers and the development of population teaching
materials for adult education classes. In addition, the program provides
direct support to the MOH Health Education Unit for the development and
dissemination of educational materials relating to health and family
planning.
NGO Activities
1.24      NGOs have played a critical role in the development of Kenya's
population program. During the early years of the program NGOs were
primarily involved in demand creation activities. By 1988 their roles
evolved to include service delivery. The recent KDHS shows that NGOs and
other non-government providers account for almost 302 of services
delivered. Government support for NGOs has been stroisg. The NCPD makes
grants to NGOs to undertake population activities. ConLinued support from
NCPD is contingent on the performance of the NGO concerned.   Problems
arise between the NCPD and NGOs. though significantly less than in the
past, primarily because of the questions of release of funds and
accountability. The issue of sustainability of NGO activities is becoming
important since virtually all support for NGOs is coming from external
scarces. A study of sustainability of NGO activities is being undertaken
through the Third Population Project.
C. Sectoral Issues
1.25      Due to strong and consistent political support and intensive IEC
activities, the KDHS has reported a major increase in the use of
contraceptives over the last five years. Furthermore, based on questions
regarding ideal family size and the desirability of more children, there is
evidence of untapped demand for contraceptives and that the CPR can be
pushed even higher. Idea'L family size has declined from 6.3 to 4.4, or by
almost two children between 1984 and 1989. And, the percentage of mothers
who "don't want more children" increased over the same five years from
31.52 to nearly 50X.  (See Annex 1, Table 5).   More women know about
family planning methods^-90- of women interviewed in the KDHS knew of at
least one method of contracaption, and nearly the same percentage also
approved of family planning. In certain provinces like Coast, Western,
Nyanza and Northeastern, however, CPR levels are still low. In such areas,
the challenge is to develop province-specific IEC programs to raise
awareness and thus increase CPR.  While the rise in the CPR from 17? to 271
in the space of five years is impressive, Kenya's population strategy must



-10-
be carefully designed to avoid plateauing of the CPR. 2/ On the demand-
generation side, there is evidence to suggest that the promotion of women's
income-generating activities results in marked fertility decline. (see
para. 2.24 below). Development of new activities such as this are
necessary to avoid plateauing.
1.26      On the supply-side, the availability and accessibility of
contraceptives is crucial to sustaining the CPR and encouraging new
acceptors. Of particular importance is the growing role of injectable
contraceptives. Despite earlier uncertainty and controversy injectable
contraceptives are now widely accepted by most inteinational and national
family planning authorities as a highly effective and safe form of
contraceptive (see Annex 6). The role of NGOn in providing family planning
services has been a substantial supplement to MOH outlets. Taken together,
there are over 850 family planning service delivery points throughout
Kenya. Communication and coordination between the Ministry of Health and
NGos is key to developing an effective logistic and distribution system.
It is necessary to have in place a system that ensures that there are ample
supplies of contraceptives and one that can respond to changing demand.
D. Role of the Bank
1.27      IDA involvement in the Kenyan family planning program has
evolved over the past twenty years and reflects changes in prevailing
government policy. Initially, IDA support for population activities was
channelled solely through the Ministry of Health, with family planning
services delivered through MOH facilities. The First Population Project
(Cr. 468-KE for US$12 million) began in 1974 and worked to strengthen the
provision of health services, particularly at the primary level.
1.28      The second IDA lending operation which began in 1982 was the
Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Proiect (Cr. 1238-KE for SDR
20.5 million). The objectives of this project were to create demand for
family planning services and expand access to family planning in rural
areas, while continuing to reduce mortality and morbidity. As the
population program matured it became evident that the project was not
meeting changing needs. The project was redesigned and amended in 1985 to
strengthen FP services in urban areas and district hospitals where there
was large unmet demand. Implementation has recently picked up. The NCPD
component is complete and the MOH components are likely to be completed by
June 1990.
2/   Plateauing is defined as the flattening out of the CPR after regular
continued annual increases. Traditionally, population programs in
Asia have seen CPRs level off initially at around 352, because of
saturation of unmet demand and limitations of existing programmatic
and managerial approaches.   They have finally levelled off between
65-702 with the introduction of new and innovative approaches.



-11-
1.29      The Third Population Project (Cr. 1904-RE for SDR 9 million)
which began in 1989 entailed a change in IDA strategy in Kenya. For the
first time population issues were appraised separately from health and a
free standing population project was designed. And while the focus of
lending narrowed, the scope of agente involved broadened. The approach
became multi-sectoral and other government ministries and NGOs played an
active role in both the generation of demand for and delivery of family
planning services. The demand for services continued to be promoted
through IEC activities. At the same time, the project supports the raising
of the availability, accessibility, and quality of family planning
services, now provided by government and NGOs. In addition, the project
supports the strengthening of the NCPD's capacity to plan, program,
coordinate and monitor this multi-sector population program. (See also
Staff Appraisal Report: Kenya Third Population Project, No. 7053-KE)
1.30      Implementation of the Third Project has now begun.  However in
the time since the Project was designed, the KDHS has identified several
emerging gaps in the Kenya population program. Specifically, the KDHS
revealed that demand for contraceptives was not only higher than figures
used for appraisal, but likely to continue to increase. As a result, the
requirements for contraceptive supplies estimated during the appraisal of
the Third Population Project have been far surpassed (see para. 1.03). The
Survey also pointed out that there are specific regions of the country
(Western and Coast Provinces) where CPRs are very low and require targeted
IEC activities. Hence, the broad objectives of the proposed Project will
be to fill these newly identified gaps as well as to address the longer-
term issue of CPR plateauing.
E. Other Donors
1.31      Kenya's population program has been strongly supported by
external donors from the very beginning. UNFPA has been playing a key role
in donor coordination and has developed mechanisms for regular
consultations between donors and the Government. USAID has been the
largest bilateral donor in the population sector. It is involved in
virtually all aspects of Kenya's population program. NORAD, ODA, and SIDA
have also been strongly supporting the population program. It is expected
that these donors will continue to play a key role in the development and
implementation of the multi-sectoral population program. In addition,
FINNIDA has recently indicated its interest in supporting population
activities in Kenya.



-12-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Design
2.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) further
increase the availability, accessibility, and quality of family planning
services provided by the Government and NGOs; (b) farther strengthen the
demand for family planning services through expansion of IEC programs to
additional government ministries and NGOs; and (c) further etrengthen the
capacity of the NCPD to plan and monitor the expanding national population
program. These objectives will be achieved by mobilizing and coordinating
the resources of both government and NGOs and through close collaboration
with donor assisted on-going population projects, particularly the IDA-
assisted Third Population Project. Demand generation activities would be
undertaken by NGOs in those arean where the 1989 KDHS shows low
contraceptive prevalence rates thereby complementing NGO activities being
implemented through the Third Population Project. To address the issue of
plateauing, the project also supports women's income generating and IEC
activities which are expected to result in sulbstantial fertility decline in
the medium and long term. The project also supports male motivation
programs on a pilot basis. On the issue of supply, the project will ensure
a steady supply of contraceptives to meet growing demand while continuing
to expand family planning services through NGOs.
2.02      To achieve these objectives the project would:
(a) provide adequate supplies of contraceptives for both
Government and NGO services to cope with inctl.asing demand;
(b) introduce Norplant as a contraceptive method in the
population program;
(c) improve and strengthen the logistics system for
contraceptives, including a separate one for NGOs;
(d) establish a clinical contraception surveillance system
including support for research on contraception;
(e) develop women's and men's activities (income generation
with Family Planning, IEC and contraceptive distribution);
(f) introduce Family Planning, IEC and services through NGOs in
districts with low contraceptive prevalence rates;
(g) strengthen the NCPD through expansion of district level
population programs and provision of a national
headquarters; and
(h) develop a national IEC strategy and an implementation plan.



-13-
B. Summary Proiect Description
2.03      The project is designed for implementation over a four-year
period starting July 1, 1990. It consists of the following four major
components, each subdivided into a number of sub-components:
(a) Increasing availability and accessibility of contraceptives
(US$13.8 million): 3/
(i) Contraceptive jupplies. Provision of vaginal tablets
and injectable contraceptives;
(ii) Norplant. Introduction of Norplant (a subdermal
implant) as a method of contraception in the
population program through provision of training,
technical assistance and supplies;
(iii)Logistics System for Contraceptives. Strengthen the
existing MOH logistics system to provide
contraceptives for MOH facilities through upgrading of
warehousing, provision of vehicles, technical
assistance and training; and
(iv) Surveillance of Clinical Contraception. Establish
systems to monitor the side effects of clinical
contraception through technical assistance, training
and monitoring.
(b) Promotion of Family Planning Services-(US$9.0 million):
(i) Ministry of Health. Construction and equipping of six
voluntary surgical contraception units in Nairobi;
equipment for provision of family planning services in
300 MOH health facilities;
(ii) Introduction of Surgical Contraception services
through the private sector. Provision of equipment
and supplies, qualified medical pbrsonnel and renting
of facilities for a private clinic in Nyeri to
introduce male and female surgical contraception
services;
(iii)Income generation activities for Women's and Men's
Groups. Introduction of income generating activities,
family planning, IEC and contraceptive distribution to
women's and men's groups through provision of
technical assistance, training and development of
small scale projecte;
3I   Costs excluding contingencies.



-14-
(iv) Family Planning, IEC and Services through NGO8:
Family Planning Association of Kenya. Development of
IEC programs in Western and Coast provinces;
Ken7a Catholic Secretariat. Upgrading 40 clinics to
provide integrated MCH and natural family planning
service;; and development of IEC programs in Western
Province;
Seventh Day Adventists. Upgrading 10 clinics to
provide MCH/FP services, construction and equipping of
two voluntary surgical contraception unit in Nyanza
province together with IEC prog:ams;
Crescent Medical Aid Society of Kenya. Expansion of
MCH/FP services in eight peri-urban areas of Nairobi,
upgrading and equipping of one voluntary surgical
contraception unit and for the development of IEC
programs in those areas;
Northeastern Province. Development of IEC programs in
Northeastern province.
(c) Strengthening the National Council for Population and
Development (US$12.5 million):
(i) NCPD Headquarters. Construction and equipping of a
national headquartera building for NCPD and for the
FPAK;
(ii) District Focus. Establishment and construction of 14
additional District Population Offices, including
office equipment, furaiture, vehicles, technical
assistance and training;
(iii)Long-term Manpower Development. Development for a
manpower development plan for NCPD staff, and for a
coordination of staff development and training
activities throughout the population program;
(iv) IEC activities. Development of a national IEC
strategy and implementation plan, including mass wadia                  -
activities.
(d) Research (US$1.5 million):
(i) Support for research on reproduction through the
Institute of Primate Research;
(ii) A feasibility study for the local manufacture of
injectable contraceptives (DMPA) and oral
contraceptives; and
(iii)Technical assistance, supplies and research costs for
operations' research including evaluation of the first
phase of the district population program and KiI
studies.



-15-
C, Detailed Project Description
(a) Increasing availability and accessibility of contraceptives -
Contraceptive Supplies
2.04      Over the past 18 months there has been a steady increase in the
demand for FP services which shows no signs of slowing down. The use of
injectable contraceptives has increased from 300,000 doses in 1986 to about
915,000 in 1989. Pill usage has increased from 1.2 million cycles in 1986
to 3.2 million cycles at present. Condom usage has increased from about 2
million pieces in 1986 to nearly 11 million pieces at present. The number
of surhtcal contraception procedures has also dramatically risen from less
than 100 in 1982 to over 15,000 in 1989.
2.05      Demand for contraceptives is continuing to grow rapidly.  There
are currently no reserve stocks and shortages of supplies particularly oral
pills (Microgynon), condoms, and injectable contraceptives (Depo-Provera)
have occurred in the recent past. Needs for commodities for all formal
population programs in Kenya have been estimated. These estimates are
based on partial distribution data and verified with the recent KDHS data.
The table below gives the requirements for commodities from 1990 to 1994
and includes an 18 month reserve stock to be build up by the end of 1990.
Details of contraceptive commodity needs are provided in Working Paper I
which is available in the project file.
Table 1 - KENYA - Estimates of Contraceptive Usage 1990-1994
19901     1991      1992       1993      1994
Oral Pills (millions)      8.4       4.3       4.9        5.3       5.9
Condoms (millions)        14.4      12.3      13.5       14.8      16.3
IUCDs (thousands)        105.6      72.6      79.0      87.0       96.0
Vaginal Foaming
Tablets (millions)      5.2        2.8       3.1        3.4       3.7
Injectables (DMPA)                                                                       ,
(millions)              2.4        1.2       1.3       1.3        1.4
-----------------------------------------
1 Includes reserve stock of 18 months.
2.06      The project would support the procurement of all injectable
contraceptives and vaginal foaming tablets. USAID will finance all IUCD
and condom requirements outside the project.  SIDA has financed oral
contraceptives and will continue to do so but will reduce the number to
four of the most popular brande. This will eliminate storage of less
demanded brands. SIDA financing of oral contraceptives is being undertaken
through on-going bilateral agreements.



-16-
Norplant
2.07      Norplant was developed by the Population Council of New York.
It is an effective, long-lasting, reversible contraceptive that provides
protection for five years. Six thin, flexible capsules made of a soft
rubber-like material and filled with a synthetic progestin are inserted
just under the skin of a woman's arm in a minor surgical procedure.
Protection is provided within hours of insertion, but a woman returns
rapidly Uo normal fertility when the implants are removed.  In accordance
with Population Council recommendations, Norplant should be fully
introduced into a country only after the method has been approved by the
country's re-ulatory agency and health care providers have been trained in
counselling, insertion and removal. Furthermore, it is advised that the
method should be offered only when there is a broad choice of other
available methods and where sufficient family planning infrastracture
exists to support the method.
2.08      The Kenyan experience with Nor lant dates back to 1985 when
Kenya was selected as one of the countries involved in a larger program of
the Population Council to introduce Norplant worldwide.  These trials
included provision of proper training for physicians in insertion and
removal and in client counselling.  Since late 1985 selected staff itn the
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of Nairobi have
been trained. In 1986 pre-introduction trials began in four rural clinics
in Machakos district. One of. the objectives of selecting rural clinics was
the opportunity to design and test the requirements necessary to take this
clinic-based method to a rural &rea while maintaining aseptic standards. A
report examining the first year of the trial suggested that the Norplant
system is a highly effective and acceptable method among Kenyan women.
There were no pregnancies and no serious or unanticipated adverse
experiences. As found in other international trials, the main disadvantage
of the method is its effect of producing irregularity in women's menstrual
cycles. The study also showed that the method could be delivered in rural
areas without infection during insertion provided that attention is paid to
provision of sterilized materials and aseptic procedures. The trial has
now been extended to an additional site, the Kenyatta National Hospital
(KNH), which will provide further opportunities to train more doctors and
nurses in the provision of the Norplant method as well as to place the
introduction in an urban setting. In 1989 Kenya became the first African
country to grant regulatory approval to Norplant.
2.09      The project would support the phased introduction of Norplant as
a method of contraception in the Kenya Population Program through technical
assis,-nce, training, educational materials and the implants.
Logistics System for Contraceptives
2.10      The MOH's logistics system is used for the distribution of
contraceptives throughout the country. The logistics system comprises a
central warehouse, 42 district stores and about 1,000 outlets.
Contraceptive storage and handling is managed by the Medical Supplies
Coordinating Unit (MSCU) at the Central level. At present there is no



-17-
clear cut responsibility within the MSCU for family planning logistics. A
family planning sub-unit within MSCU has been recommended. The second tier
of the logistics system are the 42 district medical stores, located in the
district hospitals. The third tier comprises the Service Delivery Points
(SDPs) in the districts. Usually nurses from the SDPs visit the district
medical stores to collect their supplies. In addition, there are also two
regional depots in Kisumu and Mombasa. Rather than function as a separate
tier of the logistics system these have served as supplementary storage
facilities supplying only a part of the needs of the districts in their
imaediate vicinity. Through the Essential Drugs Program, however, steps
are underway to rectify this situation and a total of five sub-depots, in
addition to the central warehouse in Nairobi, are being established.
2.11      The logistics system has had a number of problems and there have
been numerous occasions of stock-outs of some commodities and over-supply
of others. Transportation of contraceptive commodities to district medical
stores is often constrained by lack of space and by a lower priority
assigned to them than other medical supplies. Since transport from the
FSCU is not available on a timely basis, districts often send their own
transport to Nairobi only to find that the needed supplies they cannot
collect since the necessary paperwork has not been completed. Similarly,
the system of nurses from SDPs visiting their district medical stores to
collect supplies on an ad hoc basis has resulted in a relatively haphazard
resupply including stock-outs and oversupply of different commodities.
Also, lack of information regarding numbers and mix of contraceptives
disperse. to clients has led to inappropriate procurement of contraceptives
nationally.
2.12      Over the past two years there have been considerable efforts in
improving the logistics system. With USAID financed technical assistance,
a Logistics Management Information System (LMIS) has been implemented.
This system began in October 1988 in 12 pilot districts and was expanded to
9 additional districts in November 1989. The LMIS provides information on
supply status in SDPs and districts and has already resulted in a decreased
number of stock-outs from the pilot districts. USAID has also provided
funds for transporting supplies from the MSCU to the districts thereby
considerably improving the logistics system.
2.13      The project will continue the process of improving the logistics
system through strengthened logistics management at the MOH, improved
transportation of contraceptives and improvements of local logistics
operations. To improve logistics management at the MOH the project would
support both long and short-term technical assistance. A long-term advisor
would be appointed to the Division of Family Health. The project would
also provide funds for short-term technical assistance. A condition of
effectiveness of the credit would be that the Government would appoint a
Logistics Management Advisor in the Division of Family Health, whose
qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to IDA. (para.
7.01(b)).
2.14      To improve transportation of contraceptives to the districts the
project would provide two lorries and one smaller delivery vehicle to the
Division of Family Health. The project would strengthen local logistics



-18-
operations by renovating and upgrading district medical stores and by
providing storage cabinets at the SDI?. The project would also provide
funds for limited hiring of vehicles at the district and SDP levels.
2.15      NGOs account for almost 30X of the FP services provided in the
count-y.  NGO programs are currently supplied with contraceptives through a
variety of mechanisms. Larger NGOs like the FPAK have their own warehouse
and often supply smaller NGOs. However, many NGOs have problems in
obtaining contraceptlses on a steady and reliable basis.  A more
coordinated approach is required to develop an effective system to supply
NGOs with contraceptives.   During the life of the project the Division of
Family Health would be responsible for NGO contraceptive supply. A longer
term objective is to develop a separate system for NGOs. The Logistics
Management Advisor in the Division of Family Health would design procedures
by which NGOs could receive contraceptives regularly. The project would
also support the provision of one lorry and two pickups to the Division of
Family Health in order to ensure NGO supplies. NGC area stores would also
be renovated and upgraded to provide adequate storage facilities for
contraceptives. Details of the Logistics System are provided in Working
Paper I which is available in the Project File.
Surveillance of Clinical Contraception
2.16      At present, there are few systems in place in Kenya to assu-e
that contraceptive methods are being used appropriately and safely. As
family planning acceptance increases and additional methods are made
available, it is important to monitor the appropriate and safe use of these
methods. This need for monitoring applies to all methods but has
particular relevance for the use of injectables, implants, and permanent
methods because of concern about their safety. The objectives of this sub-
component are to: improve contraceptive safety by assuring that women are
correctly counselled about appropriate methods; ensure that procedures are
carried out safely to minimize short and long-term complications; counsel
women thoroughly so that they can identify any danger signs; train family
planning providers and supporting health staff to recognize and manage
complications; and, establish a system of surveillance that will enable
identification of family planning clients with complications.
2.17      These objectives will be realized by:  (a) family planning
training for service providers, particularly supervisory staff of SDPs
(clinical officers); (b) publication of circular updating knowledge of
family planning workers; (c) development of training modules emphasizing
appropriate contraceptive counselling according to each woman's medical and
reproductive history; (d) publication of contraceptive related research
performed in Kenya for distribution to family planning providers and
appropriate physicians; (e) small scale studies to investigate potential
safety problems and correct misconceptions about individual methods; (f)
appropriate training procedures for Norplant introduction; and (g)
establishment of a surveillance system looking at complications of
contraceptive use. Overall responsibility for this subcomponent rests with
the Divsion of Family Health. Implementation of individual items would be



-19-
contracted out to institutions named below, subject to on-time performance
and quality standards.
2.18      The surveillance sub-component would be implemented through the
Division of Family Health, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
University of Nairobi, and FPAK. Overall coordination of the surveillance
system would be the responsibility of the Reproductive Health Committee of
the NCPD.
2.19      Training of clinical officers in family planning will be under
the overall direction of the Division of Family Health. Eighty-four
clinical officers will be trained annually. The project will support
incremental salaries, office supplies, one vehicle, educational materials
and training costs. As USAID is funding a number of training activities
outside the project, this activity will be implemented in close
collaboration with USAID. Publications of circular updating knowledge of
family planning workers will be the responsibility of the Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Nairobi. A Quarterly Circular on
family planning topics will be issued. The project will support the
employment of an editor and two clerical assistants, desk top computer and
printer and the printing and mailing costs of the circular. Trair.ing
modules emphasizing appropriate contraceptive counselling would be
developed by the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology with assistance
from the Division of Family Health and the FPAK. The project would support
the production and mailing of two special issues of the Journal of
Obstetrics and Gynecology of East and Central Africa on contraceptive
safety matters. Funds to undertake small scale studies (US$1000 per study
and five studies per year) to investigate potential safety problems and
correct misconceptions about individual methods would be provided through
the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Approval of protocols would
be the responsibility of the Reproductive Health Committee of the NCPD.
The project would also support production of IEC materials for clients on
danger signs associated with individual methods, IEC materials for service
providers, and KAP studies.
2.20      Although it would be ultimately ideal to have all service
providers in the country participate in a surveillance system, it is more
feasible to start with a sentinel site surveillance of about 100 serv4ce
provider sites representative of urban and rural, large and small, and MOH
and NGO sites. Such surveillance is best conducted by those groups
responsible for the actual provision of care, since in addition to
providing overall figures on complications, the data can be highly useful
in providing feedback to providers that will improve the quality of care.
Coordination of these activities will come from the Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Nairobi with the active
participation of the Division of Family Health for MOH facilities and the
FPAK for NGO facilities. The project will support the recruitment of four
surveillance coordinators, a half-time senior medical officer, two
vehicles, two computers and printers, support staff, printing expenses and
operating expenses. The project will also provide funds (US$20,000 over
the four-year period) for investigation of unusual clusters of
complications or special studies of excess rates of complications due to
any given method. Details of the activities proposed under this sub-



-20-
component are presented in Working Paper II which is available in the
Project File.
(b) Promotion of Family Planning Services
Ministry of Health
2.21      There has been a steady increase in the numbers of voluntary
surgical contraception procedures undertaken in Kenya recently and demand
for these services continues to grow. Through the Integrated Rural Health
and Family Planning Project, seven Voluntary Surgical Contraception (VSC)
units at district hospitals have been completed and three more will be
ready shortly. An additional twelve such units are scheduled to be built
under the Third Population Project. Work on seven of these has already
commenced. In Nairobi, the Pumwani Hospital has been providing surgical
contraception services. It too, is being upgraded through the Third
Population Project. However, the demand for surgical contraception in
Nairobi is heavy and the existing facilities are unable to cope. The
project would therefore support the construction of six VSC units in the
Nairobi area. Equipment lists used for earlier VSC units arc considered
appropriate and will be used for the proposed VSC units.
2.22      Earlier Bank projects financed the equipping of all of Kenya's
SDPs for provision of FP services. Increased demand, breakages and losses
over the past five years have resulted in shortages of PP equipment in most
SDPs. Through the Third Population Project FP equipment for 100 facilities
in 14 districts is being provided. The project will support the
procurement of FP equipment for the remaining SDPs throughout Kenya.
Surgical Contraception through the Private Sector
2.23      The potential role of the private sector in the provision of
surgical contraception services has not been fully exploited despite the
fact that VSC services were begun in 1976 at a private clinic. VSC
services have been predominantly tubectomies. Men have not accepted
permanent methods in general. The project would support a private clinic
in Nyeri, Central Province to undertake a pilot project to encourage
vasectomies although tubectomies would not be excluded. Already this
clinic has undertaken pioneering work in introducing vasectomies in Kenya.
The opportunity exists to encourage vasectomies in Kenya. The project
would support the salaries of clinic staff, transport costs, office
supplies and medical supplies. The NCPD would make a grant to the private
clinic, as it does with NGOs. All monitoring and reporting requirements of
NCPD would be followed as is the case with NGOs.
Women' s Income Generating Activities
2.24        Although the CPR is likely to continue to rise in the short
term as a result of the steady demand for FP services, it is likely that
there will be a plateauing of acceptors in the not too distant future.
Traditionally, programs in South Asia have initially plateaued around 32-
352 and have resulted in the development of new and innovative approaches



-21-
to population control. IDA projects in South Asia have supported mother's
clubs, women's cooperatives and other income generating activities for
women with a view to raising the socio-economic status of women and making
them receptive to the small family norm. It was found that about 25? and
38Z of participants in the mother's clubs and women's cooperatives
respectively, had accepted family planning. A UN study in Bangladesh
revealed that there had been a fertility reduction of 48? among members of
mother's clubs. With technical assistance from USAID and other donors a
number of NGOs have developed experience in establishing income generating
projects including those for women's groups. The project will support the
introduction of income generating activities, FP IEC and contraceptive
distribution to women's and men's groups through provision of technical
assistance, training and support for small scale projects. Criteria for
the selection and design of these small scale projects are as follows:
(i) contain a significant population component;
(ii) available only to well-established groups;
(iii)income-generating capacity;
(iv) of relatively small size; and
(v)  do not need significant technical support.
2.25        For the women's and men's income generation sub-component a
condition of disbursement would be the submission to IDA of an acceptable
implementation plan by June 30, 1990 for the first year (para. 7.02(a)).
Family Plannina IEC, and Services through NGO.
2.26   The 1989 KDHS has identified areas with low CPRs (Nyanza, Coast,
Western and Northeastern Provinces). In those provinces it is planned to
intensify FP, IEC activities to increase the demand for services through
NGOs working in them. The proposed activities of this sub-component are
closely related to NGO activities being implemented through the Third
Population Project and will fill recently identified gaps as a result of
growing demand.
2.27      Family Planning Association of Kenya.  The objectives of this
sub-component are to expand and strengthen FPAK's IEC activities in Coast
and Western Provinc,s.  The IEC strategy includes mass media and training
workshops/seminars. Mass media activities include cultural festivals,
poster production and distribution, booklet and flip chart production.
Training workshops/seminars include staff orientation seminars, community
leader's seminars and Village Group Sensitization seminars. These training
activities will be intense and are expected to reach 4,000 village groups
in the four-year period. To implement chese activities the project will
support the purchase of two vehicles, two video cameras, two TV monitors
and two 16mm projectors and screens. Similar activities shall also be
developed by an appropriate NGO in Northeastern province.
2.28      Kenya Catholic Secretariat (KCS).  IEC activities undertaken by
the Kenya Catholic Secretariat will also focus on Western Province. The
KCS will develop and produce posters on Natural Family Planning. These
will be used by Natural Family Planning teachers to give
promotional/awareness talks to different Christian communities. During the



-22-
four-year period about 50,000 persons will be covered. Other IEC
activities include production of flip charts, shamba cloths (these are
cloth posters used at village levels to pictorially depict themes and are
predominantly used in Bungoma district) depicting Natural Family Planning
themes, t-shirts, teaching manuals, production of books and seminars for
married couples, Natural Family Planning teachers and youth. The project
will support the purchase of bicycles, audio-visual aids and IEC materials.
In addition to IEC activities in Western Province, the 40 KCS dispensaries
scattered throughout the country will be upgraded. These facilities will
provide primary health care, MCH services and natural family planning
services.
2.29      Seventh Day Adventists (SDA).  IEC activities undertaken by the
SDA will focus on Nyanza Province. The IEC strategy includes mass media
and training activities and in country study tours. The SAD will develop
and print posters on FP themes in Kisii, Luo and Swahili.  Other IEC
activities include production of flip charts, t-shirts, khangas, booklets
and CBD manuals. Seven anatomic models for training and demonstrations
will be obtained. Training activities include seminars for pastors,
literacy evangelists, local church representatives, traditional birth
attendants, community health worker supervisors, community health workers,
dorcas ladies (church volunteers) and enrolled community nurses. The
project also supports the strengthening of family planning services in SDA
run health facilities. Ten dispensaries will be upgraded and renovated.
In addition, two VSC units will be constructed and equipped in South Nyanza
and Kisii.
2.30      Crescent Medical Aid Society of Kenya (CMASK).  IEC ectivities
and family planning services are provided in peri-urban Nairobi by the
CMASK.  Existing facilities are dilapidated, yet demand for services is
very strong. The project will support the construction of a VSC facility
in the Nairobi area replacing the existing facilities.   In addition, the
proiect will support IEC activities in eight peri-urban areas of Nairobi.
These include posters, pamphlets, flip charts and training activities for
community health workers and client counselling. The project shall provide
one vehicle, office equipment and a video recorder and TV. Details of the
IEC activities under this component are contained in Working Paper III and
details of the ci7il works are contained in Working Paper IV, both of which
are available in the project file.
(c)  Strengthenins the National Council for Population and
Development (NCPD) Headquarters
2.31      Funds had been allocated in the Third Population Project to
construct, furnish and equip a permanent headquarters for the NCPD. Due to
the unexpacted demand for injectable contraceptives, however, these funds
were diverted for their procurement. At t.he same time, the NCPD's space
requirements have increased due to establishment of new staff positions.
Also, the NCPD has agreed to provide the FPiK with permanent office space.
The revised requirements will be financed through the project.



-23-
District Focus
2.32      As part of the Government's District Focus Policy, District
Population and Family Planning committees are being formed in a phased
manner. Through the Third Population Project, 14 district population
offices are being established. Funds have been provided for the
construction and equipping of population offices and for training. The
second National Leaders Conference, held in September 1989, endorsed the
district approach to population programming and this has resulted in
considerable pressure from districts to expand the program nationwide.
However, before an expansion can take place the initial program needs to be
fully operational and an evaluation carried out to enable necessary changes
to be made in the strategy. The project will support the expansion of the
district population program to an additional 14 districts of Baringo,
Kiambu, Kitui, Kilifi, Kisumu, Kwale, Lamu, Nyandarua, Elgeyo-Marakwet,
Embu, Nakuru, Busia, Nandi and Kajiado (see map) upon evaluation of the
first phase. A condition of disbursement for this sub-component would be
the submission to IDA of an evaluation of the first phase of the district
population program and agreement with IDA on changes required for
implementation of the next phase. (Para. 7.02(b)).
Long-Term Manpower Development
2.33      Funds have been provided by UNFPA, USAID, ODA and previous IDA
assisted projects for the development of manpower for the population
program. The majority of the NCPD's staff are recent graduates and are
expected to benefit from the on-going manpower development activities. As
the population program continues to expand it is necessary to ensure that
NCPD staff have access to higher level training. The NCPD will be required
to prepare a long-term manpower development plan and to identify resources
available from other donors. The project provides funds for implementation
of the long-term manpower development plan.
IEC Stratew-
2.34      IEC activities, until recently, have been undertaken primarily
by NGOs. The NCPD has not developed a comprehensive national IEC strategy.
This drawback has now been recognized and the NCPD is developing a national
IEC strategy and implementation plan. A condition of disbursement for this
subcomponent is that the NCPD would submit a national IEC strategy and
implementation plan satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.02(c)).
(d) Research
rnstitute of Primate Research
2.35      The Institute of Primate Research is part of the National
Museums of Kenya. It undertakes bio-medical research in the areas of
conservation/ecology, infectious diseases/parasitology and reproductive
biology. The Institute has been supported by a number of international
donors/agencies including the WHO, National Institute ot Health, the
European Community, Rockefeller Foundation, Edna McConnell Clark Foundation



-24-
and the Pasteur Institute. As some of the earlier grants are now coming to
an end, the Institute needs resources to continue its research activities.
2.36      In the field of fertility regulation the Institute of Primate
Research is involved in the following major areas of research: evaluation
of traditional methods of family planning; development of new, safe and
effective methods of fertility regulation (emphasis on sperm-based
contraceptive vaccine); testing of existing methods of fertility
regulation; and information dissemination. The project will support
research projects in reproductive biology. A sum of US$1 million is
provided during the life of the project. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that by June 30, 1991 the NCPD would submit research
proposals to IDA for review and approval (pars. 7.03(c)).
Feasibility Studies
2.37      With the growing demand for FP services the need fot a steady
supply of contraceptives is critical. Over the long-term the Government is
expected to finance its contraceptive requirements. The project provides
funds for undertaking feasibility studies or the local manufacture of oral
contraceptives and injectables (DMPA).  These studies will examine the
technical, economic and financial feasibility of local manufacture
particularly through the private sector.
Operations' Research
2e38      Funds for undertaking population research have been provided by
UNFPA and USAID. The project provides technical assistance, training and
other research costs for undertaking operations research activities
including the evaluation of the first phase of the district population
program and RAP studies. Research activities will be closely coordinated
with USAID and UNFPA.



-25-
III.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Costs
3.01      Total costs of the proposed project are estimated at KSh9O7.9
million (US$41.3 million equivalent). Base costs are calculated at US$36.9
million equivalent (89S) and contingencies at US$4.4 million equivalent
(112).  Foreign exchange costs account for US$25.7 million or 622 of total
project costs. Taxes and duties have been excluded in calculating the
project cost. Project costs by expenditure category are summarized in
Table 2 below, and details are provided in Annex 2. Civil works account
for 241 of base costs; furniture, equipment, vehicles, supplies and
materials for 231; contraceptive supplies 252; monitoring and research
activities 52; technical assistance and overseas training 6X; training 10X;
and incremental recurrent costs (salaries and allowances, building,
equipment and vehicle oprtgtion and maintenance) 71.
3.02      Project costs have been estimated using February 1990 prices.
Civil works costs have been estimated on the basis of the value of current
Ministry of W-torks contracts for comparable buildings. Furniture and
equipment lists are available and wer_ reviewed by IDA. Project costs also
include provision for a total of 25 vehicles, at a unit cost of about
US$22,000 (on CIF basis); 125 months of overseas training; 132 months of
long-term foreign/local consultants and 21 months of short-term
consultants. Incremental salaries, local training costs and operational
and maintenance expenses are based on current Government and NGO scales and
rates respectively.
3.03      The total project costs include US$4.4 million equivalent for
contingencies. Physical contingencies have been included at 10 for civil
works and 51 for vehicles, equipment, furniture, materials/supplies and
furniture maintenance and amount to US$1.3 million equivalent (42 of base
costs). The following price contingencies have been includeds (i) on
foreign exchange expenditures, 4.91 in the first six years of the project
and 3.7Z in 1996; and (ii) on local cost expenditures, 7.51 in 1990; and
5.52 every year thereafter. Price contingencies account for US$3.0 million
equivalent or 81 of base costs.
3.04      The foreign exchange component of US$25.7 million equivalent is
based on estimates of 652 for civil works; 10OZ for vehicles and equipment;
402 for materials/supplies; 10O2 for contraceptive supplies; 302 for
furniture; and 10O1 for overseas training and study tours. The incremental
recurrent costs mainly cover equipment and building maintenance, and
vehicle operation and maintenance.
3.05      Project costs by functional component are shown in Table 3.
Contraceptive supplies and logistics system would absorb 371 of base costs;
strengthening the NCPD 341; promotion of family planning 241; and research
41.



-26-
Table 2: PROJECT COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
Summary Accounts Cost Summay
KSN                                 US$                               S Total
--- ------ ------ ----- --------- --- ------ -- ------ --- --- --- -    Foreign  ease
Local     Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign      Total    Eaicheng       Costs
. lNVESTMET COSTS
A. CIVIL CRXS                  68456500.0 126840s77.0 .1042077.0  81281ft.2  66so164.0  092s329.2         64.8         24.2
B. VENICLES                           0.0  16201160.0  16208160.8        0.0   740F1A-    74461u.2        1OO.C        2.0
C. fUtWalE                     10440S00.0   4427721.1  1466U2*1.1   476077.9   204890.6   682968.4        29.8         1.S
S. MATERIALS                   U157490.0  836310.9.9  96628309.9  260279.6  1773619.7  4433790.           39.7         12.0
E. ElIUDIENT                         0.0  64767296.8  F47672M6.3         0.0  2616264 0  2516264.0        100.0        6.8
F. COSITRACEPTIV St1UFUS              0.0  "02691069.  202691069.9       0.0  931056.2  0810568.2         1CG00 20..
0. TECIOIICAL ASSISTANCE        31120000.0  42411500.0  46771600.0   152501.4  1950000.0  2102603.4       92.7         6.7
M. EVALUATION, MITORINa 37242800.0                0.0  37242600.0  1710739.5        (.0  1710739.5         0.0         4.6
1. OVERSEAS TRAIAING                 0.0     42600.0   5442600.0         0.0   260000.0   260000.0       100.0         0.7
J. IRAINO                      62687410.0         0.0  62687410.0  8706227.4        0.0  3798227.4         0.0        10..            -
,,    -   -  - . -- -- - - -- - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - -- - - -- - -- -- - - - -- - - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - -- - - .-- -- -
Total ILNESTENT COSTS         260304700.0 49014"44.6 760453644.5  1102293.0 22548924.5 U471917.5          06.3       90.4
II. RECaENT COSTS
A. SAURIES                     28907280.0         0.0  28997260.0  1381981.6        0.0  13319088.5        0.0         3.6
S. ALLOWANCE                          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
C. PER DIEM                     6105798.0         0.0   6105790.0   280468.3        0.0   200486.3         0.0         0.6
D. UTZLITES/SUDPLIES                  0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
E. WOIICLE OFERATION/MAINT      6278000.0   9699624.6  14977624.5   240796.2   447193.0   687939.2        64.8 6.9
r. EQUIET  AINVTENAN            1097600.0   2017089.6   3114889.5    60076.4    92997.2   143072.6        64.8         0.4
0. SUIWINO MAINTEANC             13680101.0    7124.7    143924.7     6280.6      330.6     6811.1         6.0         0.0
N. RRIIWE MAINTEAN                    0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0
Totel ItAECIT COSTS            41615475.0  1172873.7  SU39213.7  1900604.0   540620.7  2460124.7           22.0         6.6
Tot& BASE'IDE COSTS           301020175.0 601672683.2 608792858.2  13832697.0 23089446.2 36922042.2        0.0        100.0
Physeical Contingmenet       10276649.6  186S412.  28643962.1   472006.0   689155.4  1311160.4          64.0         8.6
Prlc Coetinagele           30184738.4  45413841.6  76623075.0  1258146.1  1779656.7  3087701.7       6U.6          0.2
Total PROIECTS COSTS          342380467.9 66679437.6 907959896.4  15662746.1  26708156.2 41270904.3       62.3        111.6
2/20/1090 8:68



-27-
Table 3t  PROJECT COSTS BY FLUNCTIONAL CONPON T
Project Cet Summry
I1SN                                use                               S Totel
,____,____________ - ___________--_---.----------------- ---------- - J  Foreign          B"s
Ll        P.eF lp        ol Total  LOCal    Feign        TOtl      Exchange       Cosat
_____________ ____--       -          ------------- ---
A. CRIUCEPTZVR SUPPLY
1. DIV OF FAMILY WALTH      81188275.0 281780188.6 288711610.6  146079.4  1040234.4  12114U31.6        67.e        n2.
2. WPT OF OUSTIICS A GYI     000.0   10627n7.0   7190577.0   270947.0    48972.5   323010.5             14.0        0.0
s. rPPM                      8076420.0   1796253.4   40716U.4   141045.7    62782.6   223778.8         W8.9          0.6
4. NIUMT                     11400.0  227526.   251602.2   116382.1  1041709.6  1157061.6               00.0         3.1
Svb-Toti                       4"826.0 2578206112.2  8006007.2  S20424.2 11021649.2  18524078.4           6.5         37.4
S. FAUILY PLMANUI   POiG
1. FPA4 IEC                 23681000.0   4716042.0  27942.0  106060.0   210478.5  1308564.4            10.0         3.6
2. CAIHC SEUCRTMIAT         10668.0  16145.5  26185064.5   497458.0   706018.5  1204U1.1               s8.6         J.a
S. CRESCET UICAL AISO       1001800.0   6601610.0  14114420.0   450151.8  2101:1.4   717i2.2           85.0         1.9
4. SXWuI DAY ADTTm          148220.0  100060.3  1508404.8   079199.0   5014t1.0  116050.0              42.3          3.2
6. 111NS ACTmITUS           8160.o 0     o0.m.o  665360.o   18u1.7  sum.s  8017115.3                   45.7         *.2
6. VA1ITOMY CLINC            1121410.0    427265.7   15456.7    51449.1    106".1    71142.2           27.0         0.2
7.  INS1Y U MALIN (A        1071000.0  22184.9  516.8584.6    466.0  1084872.6  15288I1.)              07.7         4.1
Sub-Total                     1011091.0  64132.4 196886111.4  4189110N.   4126448.6  9001657.0            45.7        24.4
C. NCMO
1. DISTIT'L OVT            404100X0.0    162tJ922.7 111600922.7  n1116.1  3901014.0  6049540.1        64.6        16.4
2. IlSUTICT FOUS            41241200.0  21770045.9  70161545.9  1048304.4  1275186.0  3223778.4        39.5         S.7
8. LoUcrYI  SANPoE  OVT          0.0   5445200.0   5442500.0         0.0   250000.0   25000.0        100.0         0.7
4. IEC                      29040000.0  *65736.0  65U61060.0  1826s00.4  1649044.4  8018945.6          66.7         *.2
Sub-Total                     117981100.0 1550068SS.0 2720l65O.4  5896531.0   141847.t 12U7270.2          67.0        J4.0
D. M1AR18CM AND EVALUATION     U680000.0          0.0  *1oo0000.0  1U41111.6        0.0  1-A111.6          0.0         4.2
Total BASMLII COSTS           801620178.0 50117111612 6081792*61.  13685097.0 21809445.2 36022042.2       62.5       100.0
Physical Ccntinasecl       10271,46.5  1U26412.6  26549062.1   47100.0   119155.4  1811160.4          64.0         8.0
Price Co.tlnmoles           30184788.4  46486541.6  75518075.0  1256114.1  1719166.7  3087701.7        58.6         6.2
Total PIrCTS COSTS            U42860457.9 574817.5 6O795 .4  156U574.1  2570616 .2 41270604.3             62.0       111.6
-___-_-_-_----------- - - - - -------- - - --.---
2/20/1660 egs



-28-
B. Financing
3.06      Of the total project costs of US$41.3 million, the Government's
contribution would t2 US$4.1 million (10X), which would cover 31 of
investment costs and 1001 of the recurrent costs. The remainder of
investment costs would all be financed from external sources. Table 4
presents project costs by financing source. USAID is providing US$2.2
million for contraceptive supplies, technical assistance and VSC equipment.
An IDA credit up to US$35.0 million is proposed.
TABLE 4: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Expenditure             Total Base                        Percentage
Categories                Costs     GOK  USAID      IDA        IDA
Civil Works               8.9        1.0             7.9      88.7
Vehicles                  0.7                        0.7     100.0
Furniture                 0.7        0.2             0.5      71.4
Materials/Supplies        4.4                        4.4     100.0
Equipment                 2.5              0.2       2.3      92.0
Contraceptive Supplies   9.3               1.2       8.1      87.1
Technical Assistance      2.1              0.8       1.3      61.9
Monitoring, Research,
Evaluation              1.7                        1.7     100.0
Local Training            3.8                        3.8     100.0
Overseas Training         0.3                        0.3     100.0
Recurrent Costs           2.4        2.4                       0.0
Total Base Costs         36.9        3.6    2.2    31.1       84.2
Total Contingencies       4.4       0.5              3.9      88.6
Total Project Costs      41.3        4.1    2.2    35.0       84.7



-29-
Financial Viability
3.07      The financial viability of the proposed project and of the
population sector overall in the short-term is secured through continued
donor contributions (either bilaterally or cofinancing through IDA
projects) and by Government of Kenya assurances from the Office of the Vice
President and Ministry of Finance for counterpart funds. However, given
the long-term fertility goals of the Kenyan population program and the
implications f- contraceDtive supplies, consideration of the financial
sustainability of the popalation sector in a me.0-tm- to long-term framework
is warranted.
3.08      As the population program matures--infrastructure becones
developed, IEC activities reach saturation--an increasing proportion of
costs will fall on recurrent expenditures. The largest bulk of non-salary
recurrent costs will be for contraceptive supplies. Annex 1, Tables 6-10
presents three scenarios for different contraceptive usage and their
estlmated contraceptive prevalence rates projected to the year 2000. On
the restrictive assumption that the MOE's gross recurrent budget allocation
does not increase significantly in real terms 41, and using the base case
scenario for projected contraceptive needs, the total cost for modern
temporary contraception MOH supplies in 1994 would account for 2.52 of the
budget if the government were to finance all supplies. Excluding salaries,
the share would rise to 4Z. Although the figures are rough calculations,
they offer an order of magnitude wvJch the population program will have to
address when considering long-term financing issues.
3.09      The Kenyan population program has several long-term options.
Funds have been provided under the Third Population Project to undertake a
study to examine alternative financing mechanisms for expanding NGO family
planning programs. The proposed project will support a feasibility study
for the local manufacture of injectables (Depo-Provera) and oral
contraceptives.  Consideration should also be given to the government
financing a larger portion of recurrent costs, including salaries. An
agreement with SIDA has already been reached that the Government begin
financing the procurement of oral pills amounting to KSh 5 million in
1992/93 and KSh 10 million in 1993/94.
4/   This is a plausible assumption given expectations of increased
revenue generated under the Government's user charge scheme and
overall austerity of GOK budget allocations. The above figures are
with reference to central government expenditures and thus the
assumption does nce necessarily imply that total expenditures for the
health care remain relatively flat.



-30-
C.  Procurement
TABLE 5: PROCUREMNT
(US$ million)
Procurement method
Total
ICB   LIB  LCB    Other   N.A.    Cost
-------------------------------------------------------------------__ -----
Civil Works                 6.1        4.4                   10.5
(5.4)      (4.1)                  (9.5)
Vehicles                     .8                                .8
(.8)                              (.8)
Equipment/Furniture         3.2         .3    .2              3.6
(3.1)       (.1)                  (3.2)
Materials/Supplies                     4.4     .4             4.8
(4.4)   (.4)           (4.8)
Contraceptive Supplies      1.0   7.8         1.4            10.2
(1.0) (7.8)        (.2)           (9.0)
Technical Assistance                          2.3             2.3
(1.5)           (1.5)
Monitoring, Research/
Evaluation                                            1.8     1.8
(1.8)   (1.8)
Local Training                                        4.1     4.1
(4.1)   (4.1)
Overseas Training                                      .3      .3
(.3)    (.3)
Salaries/Allowance/
Per Diem                                            1.9     1.9
(-1     (-)
Vehicle Op./Maintenance                                .8      .8
(-)     (-)
Equipment Maintenance                                  .2      .2
(-)     (-)
Building Maintenauce                                   .07     .07
(-)      (-)
TOTAL                    11.0   7.8  9.1    4.3     9.2    41.3
(10.3) (7.8)(8.6)  (2.1)   (6.2)  (35.0)
Numbers in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.



-31-
3.10      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.  USAID
financed procurement would be undertaken by USAID in accordance with its
procurement procedures. IDA financed procurement would be undertaken as
follows. The civil works contract for the NCPD headquarters building at
Nairobi, estimated at about US$6.1 million would be awarded following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. ICB contracts will be
subject to prequalification. Local firms bidding for construction
contracts under ICB would receive a preference of 7.51. Other extension of
civil works aggregating to US$4.4 million, including 9 voluntary surgical
contraception units, 48 clinic upgrading KCS and DDA and 14 district
population offices are too small and scattered to attract international
bidding. These contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent
per contract will be awarded following competitive bidding advertised
locally. However, interested foreign contractors, would not be precluded
from participation. The local procurement procedures were reviewed by IDA
earlier and are consistent with the requirements except for preference for
local firms.  This issue will be resolved at negotiations.  The first LCB                *
document will be reviewed by IDA before its release to bidders.
3.11      Furniture and equipment would be grouped, to the extent
practicable, into contracts valued at US$100,000 or more and procured
through ICB. Furniture and equipment estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 but more than $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$300,000, would be procured through LCB. For locally
manufactured goods procured through ICB a preference of 151 of duties
whichever is less would be applicable provided the value added in such
goods is more than 201 of the ex-factory cost. Vehicles would be procured
as a package through ICB. Vaginal tablets will be procured through ICB.
The requirement for injectMble contraceptives (DMPA) is highly specific.
DMPA, in the required form, is made by very few manufacturers. It will
therefore, be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) and the
list of firms from which solicitations can be made will be approved by IDA.
It is estimated that US$7.8 million worth of DMPA will he procured through
LIB during the project period. Norplant manufactured exclusively for the
Population Council will be procured through the Population Council.
Contracts for materials and supplies are too small and diverse to attract
ICB. Materials and supplies estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1 million, would be
procured through LCB. Miscellaneous items of materials and supplies
estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$400,000, would be procured through prudent shopping with at                -W
least three price quotations. The threshold limit for prior review by IDA
is set at US$100,000 per tender. It is expected that 272 of total project
costs would be procured through ICB, 19Z through LIB, 221 through LCB, and
101 through other means.
3.12      For all IDA-financed consultants employed for this project,
selection procedures, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to IDA, and in accordance with the
'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the
World Bank as r.n Executing Agency" (August 1981).



-32-
D. Disbursements
3.13       Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit will be on the basis
of: (a) 80 of total expenditures on civil works; (b) 100Z of foreign
expenditures and 702 of local expenditures on goods, equipment, supplies
and vehicles; (c) 100Z of expenditures for training, consultant services
research, and foreign and local technical assistance. For the women's and
men's income generating activities sub-component 802 of expenditures will
be eligible for reimbursement. For the NCPD's IEC sub-component, 1002 of
foreign expenditures and 702 of local expenditures will be eligible for
reimbursement. Withdrawal applications for expenditures for civil works,
supplies and materials under contracts or purchase orders of less than
US$20,000 would be submitted against statements of expenditure (SOE) except
for the women's and men's income generating activities sub-component where
all expenditures would be against SOEs; supporting documentation would be
retained in the implementing agencies for review by Bank supervision
missions and for annual audits.  All other disbursements would be fully
documented. It is anticipated that the credit would be fully disbursed by
June 30, 1997. An indicative schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex
3. This schedule is based on the standard disbursement profile for Kenya,
plus realistic estimates of disbursements of contraceptive supplies.
S.  Accounts and Audit
3.14      Project funds would be.maintained in a eeparate account and
would be channeled from the Ministry of Finance to the NCPD and would be
administered by the Under Secretary (Finance) Ministry of Home Affairs.
Project financial records would be maintained by the Under Secretary
(Finance) in the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Project would be subject to
normal government accounting and auditing procedures, which are considered
satisfactory to IDA. During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
audits of project accounts and SOEs by the Auditor General would be carried
out; that all audited accoumts would be made available to IDA within nine
months of the close of each GOK fiscal year (para. 7.03(a)).
9



-33-
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
4.01      The project was prepared by the NCPD in collaboration with the
MOH, FPAK, KCS, SDA and GMASK. Sessional Paper No. 4, 1984, the Third
Populatio,s Project and the KDHS provided the framework for project
development. Site plans and sketch drawings for the NCPD building and the
district population buildings have been reviewed by IDA. Working drawings,
bills of quantity and tender documents for all contracts are expected to be
finalized and submitted to IDA for review about three months after project
effectiveness. Furniture and equipment lists for the NCPD headruarters
building will be submitted to IDA for review and approval within three
months of project effectiveness. Furniture and equipment lists for VSCs
and health centers have been previously reviewed by IDA and are
satisfactory.   During negotiations assurances were obtained that
subsequent draft annual work plans including adequate budgetarY
allocations, satisfactory to IDA, would be submitted by the NCPD, by March
31 annually (para. 7.03(b)).
B. Organization and Management
4.02      As with the Third Population Project, the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Home Affairs and National Heritage would have overall
responsibility for coordination of the project. The Director of NCPD would
have day-to-day responsibility for coordination, supervision, and
implementation of the NCPD component and for monitoring activities
undertaken by other government and non-government agencies. In each such
agency, a project coordinator has been identified. All project
coordinators would work closely with the NCPD. A project coordinating
committee chaired by the Director of NCPD, comprising the coordinators of
all project components and senior NCPD staff established for the Third
Population Project would be modified and also coordinate the proposed
project. The coordtnating committee would meet every quarter to review
project implementation. The NCPD secretariat would be responsible for
maintaining minutes of every meeting, initiating follow up actions and for
preparing progress reports.
4.03      The Director, NCPD would be responsible for the civil works
program. Since the NCPD does not have the staff for production of
architectural drawings and for coordination of the quantity surveying,
mechanical, electrical and civil engineering inputs of design work, use
would be made of consultant firms. The Ministry of Works would assist NCPD
in the selecting and briefing of consultant firms and in monitoring the
civil works program.
4.04      Procurement of furniture, equipment and supplies, and
recruitment of consultants for all project components would be undertaken
by the respective agencies. NCPD, which has developed the capability to



-34-
undertake procurement efficiently, would provide guidance and support as
necessary.
4.05      Responsibility for implementation of the component on increasing
availability and accessibility of contraceptives would rest with the
Director, Division of Family Health. MOH. Responsibility for
implementation of each sub-component undertaken under the Promotion of
Family Planning component would rest with the respective government
ministry or NGOQ The Director, Division of Family Health would be
responsible for the MOH sub-component. Respons'bility for the NGO sub-
components would be as follows: FPAK: Executive Director; KCS: Deputy
Director; Seventh Day Adventist: Medical Director; CMSAK: Project Director.
Responsibility for implementation of each sub-component undertaken under
NCPD compouent would rest with the applicable section of the NCPD. The
section head (Programs) would supervise the district focus sub-component
and the IEC head would supervise the IEC sub-component. Long-term training
and construction of the NCPD building would be supervised by the Director.
The Research component would be supervised by the section head of the
Research and Evaluation Division.
C. Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
4.06      The Director, NCPD would have responsibility for monitoring the
progress of implementaticn of all project components. He would prepare
quarterly progress reports, and would highlight major issues needing
resolution. These reports would be approved by the project coordinating
conmmittee (para. 4.02) before submission to IDA and other donors. Regular
coordination meetings of the donor agencies would be held in Nairobi. As a
basis for monitoring, annual implementation plans are being prepared for
the Third Population Project and will include activities of the proposed
project. In addition a mid-term review of the Third Population Project is
planned no later than December 31, 1990 and will assist in monitoring the
project.
4.07      Progress of the project would be monitored through process and
impact indicators. Process indicators includet procurement of
contraceptives on timely basis, number of service providers trained to
introduce Norplant, number of implants per year, expansion of Logistics
Management Information System to nover all project districts, publications
of circular for FP workers on contraceptive safety issues, and numbers of
clinical officers trained in FP. For IEC activities carried out by NCPD
and NGOs, indicators to be monitored will be the production of posters,
booklets and other materials by types and numbers. For district focus
activities, monitoring criteria include the number of districts in which
population activities are begun annually, as well as the number and types
of seminars held each year. Finally, for service delivery activities the
numbers of new acceptors by type of method will be reviewed.
4.08      In terms of impact, the project's goals are to achieve a TFR of
6.0 and a CPR of 35Z by 1995, representing nearly 251 decline in fertility
since 1984. Annex 1, Tables 6-9 show three scenarios for projected



-35-
contraceptive use to the year 2000. All scenarios assume that the numbers
of married women of reproductive age (15-49) continues to grow by 42 per
year. The scenarios differ in assumptions concerning market penetration.
The base case scenario growth rate of 102 implies an increase in the CPR
due to changes in the use of modern temporary methods of about 1 per year,
in line with recent increases in prevalence. The high and low cases imply
a change in the CPR of approximately 1.5Z and 0.52 respectively.
4.09      In addition to the studies and surveys being undertaken through
the Third Population Project, regular surveys are planned every two years
to monitor CPR. Annual work plans will be produced based on a component-
by-component review of progress in the preceding year. A mid-term review
of the project would be carried out by December 31, 1992 (para. 7.03(a)).
V. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
5.01      Although the adverse environmental effects of a large, rapidly
growing and youthful population are likely to continue in the short-term,
increased CPR and declining fertility will have a positive impact on the
environment over the long-term. By reducing the rate of population growth,
pressure on natural resources is expected to ease. The project will
therefore, have a direct positive impact on the environment.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
6.01      The proposed project continues to build on efforts begun under
previous IDA lending operations, including towards institution buiiding,
strengthening of the NCPD, and expansion of NGO population programs. The
project is designed,much along the same lines as the previous project but
fills crucial gaps resulting from an acceleration of program adoption that
were not anticipated during the appraisal of the Third Populatior. Project.
In addition, the project lays the groundwork for addressing lon4er-term
sustainability issues, relating to further expansion of contraceptive
prevalence levels and the future financing of the program.
6.02      The project is expected to improve the effectiveness of the
population program and expand its coverage. The 14 diJtricts selected
under the Third Population Project covered about 652 of the population.
The establishment of 14 additional district population offices supported by
this project would account for another 252 of Kenya's population.
6.03      The NCPD's role in coordinating the mobilization of Kenya's
population program is key and efforts to strengthen the Council and its
Secretariat will benefit the program.  The provision of funds for a



-36-
contraceptive logistic system will facilitate the MOH's and NGOs' delivery
of family planning services without any break In supplies. The
introduction of a surveillance system, including a counselling component,
will ensure that couples choose a family planning method that best suits
their need and that any complications will be properly monitored.
6.04      Population IEC activities through selected NGOs are expected to
benefit people living in areas with low CPRs and high infant mortality
rates, particularly in Western and Coast provinces.
B. Risks
6.05      This project faces similar risks as those in the Third
Population Project, and steps taken under the previous project to reduce
these risks will be mutually beneficial to this project. The capacity of
the MOH's Division of Family Health (DFH) to administer the family planning
program continues to be weak.  More coordination at working levels between
the DFH, other MOH units, NGOs, as well as the NCPD is required.
6.06      A second risk emanates from the ability of the NCPD to
coordinate and manage an increasingly complex population program. Symptoms
of this possible weakness are the slow implementation of the district
program and the lack of an overall IEC strategy despite ongoing individual
IEC activities. In part, these difficulties may be due to the relative
inexperience of the staff. It is expected, however, that the recent
appointment of a new Director along with funds for long-term high-level
manpower development provided under the proposed project will pre-empt this
risk.



-37-
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      The following would be conditions of effectiveness,
(a)  the MOH would submit an organizational structure for the
Division of Family Health for review and comment by IDA and
a plan for its implementation (para. 1.22);
(b)  the Government would appoint a Logistics Management Advisor
in the Division of Family Health, whose qualifications and
experience would be satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.13), and
7.02      The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(a) for the women's income generation sub-component an
implementation plan, acceptable to IDA, for the first year
of the project by June 30, 1990 (para. 2.25);
(b) for the district focus sub-component the NCPD would submit
to IDA an evaluation of the first phase of the district
population program and agreem-nnt with IDA on changes
required for implementation of the next phase (para. 2.32);
and,
[c) for the IEC sub-component, the NCPD would submit to IDA a
nationwide IEC strategy and a plan for its implementation
(para. 2.34).
7.03      Other covenants would be:
(a) audits of project accounts and SOEs by the Auditor General
would be carried out; that all audited accounts would be
made available to IDA within nine months of the close of
each GOK fiscal year (para. 3.14).
(b) draft annual work plans, including budgetary allocations,
satisfactory to IDA would be submitted by the NCPD, by
March 31 annually (para. 4.01) and a mid-term review by
December 31, 1992 (para. 4.09).
(c) for the Institute of Primate Research sub-component, the
submission of research proposals for review and approval by
IDA by June 30, 1991 (para. 2.36).
7.04      Subject to the above provisions, the proposed project would
constftute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 26.3 million (US$35.0
million equivalent) to the Government of Kenya.



-38-
ANNEX 1
LIST OF TABLES
1.   Total Fertility Rates, Selected Years
2.   Contraceptive Prevalence Rates, 1984 and 1989
3.   Age at First Marriage, 1989
4.   Population Projections, Selected Age Groups and Years
5.   Selected Determinants of Family Planning, 1984 and 1989
6.   Projected Co.- raceptive Prevalence Rates, Selected Scenarios
;.  Projected Contraceptive Usage, Base Case Scenario
8.   Projected Contraceptive Usage, High Case Scenario
9.   Projected Contraceptive Usage, Low Case Scenario
10.   Estimated Contraceptive Costs, by Scenario



-39-
ANNEX 1
Table 1
KENYA
Total Fertility Rates
Selected Years
KFS                KCPS            KDHS
Province                   1977-78              1984            1989
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Nairobi                      6.1                5.6             4.6
Central                      8.6                7.8             6.0
Coast                        7.2                6.7             5.5
Eastern                      8.2                8.0             7.0
Nyanza                       8.0                8.2             7.1
Rift Valley                  8.8                8.6             7.0
Western                      8.2                6.3             8.1
Residence
Urban  a/                    6.8                5.3              4.8
Rural                        8.4                8.1             7.1
Education
No Education                 8.8                8.5              7.2
Some Primary  b/             9.0                9.0             7.5
Primary Complete b/          8.1                7.9             6.5
Secondary +                  7.3                5.4             4.9
Total                        7.9                7.7             6.7
Source: Table 4.14 KCPS for 1977/78 and 1984;
Table 3.5 KDHS for 1989.
a/ For 1977 and 1984, urban areas"exclude Nairobi and Mombasa.
b/ For 1977178 and 1984, educational categories are al-4 Years' and '5-8
Years' for 'Some Primary' and "Secondary Complete" respectively.



-40-
ANNEX 1
Table 2
KENYA
Contraceptive Prevalence Rates
Married Women of Reproductive Age
1984 and 1989
All           Modern
Province                   Methods         Method           Traditional
1984   1989    1984   1989         1984   1989
Nairobi                 28.3   33.5    22.9   27.9           5.4    5.6
Central                 34.1   39.5    20.7   30.8          13.5    8.7
Coast                   10.5   18.1      6.8   14.8          3.7    3.3
Eastern                 26.3   40.2    14.2   19.5          12.1   20.8
Nyanza                   8.6   13.8      5.5   10.2          3.0    3.5
Rift Valley             15.1   29.6      5.4   18.1          9.6   11.5
Western                  4.6   13.7      3.5   10.0          1.1    3.7
Total                   17.0   26.9      9.7   17.9          7.3    9.0
Sources: 1984: KCPS, Table 7.13
1989: KDHS, Table 4.7



-41-
ANNEX 1
Table 3
KENYA
PERCENT DISTRIBUTION OF WOMEN BY AGE AT FIRST MARRIAGE,
ACCORDING TO CURRENT AGE, 1989
Cur-     Never               Age at tirst marriage
ent     married    <15    15-17    18-19    20-21    22-24    25+   Total
age
15-19    79.8        3.5   11.8      4.9       0.0      0.0      G.0  100.0
20-24    31.8        5.6   25.9     20.3      12.0      4.4      0.0  100.0
25-29    10.7       15.7   27.5     22.0      11.3      8.5      4.2  100.0
30-34     5.4      23.0   27.7      17.2      13.6      8.5      4.7  100.0
35-39     3.2      20.1   31.3      20.0      12.4      7.1      5.9  100.0
40-44     1.5       25.0   30.3     19.7      11.9      7.1      4.4  100.0
45-49     2.4       17.7   28.0     20.5      13.4     10.1      7.9  100.0
Total    26.0       13.8   24.7     16.9       9.7      5.8      3.1  100.0
Source: KDHS, Table 2.4



-42-
ANNEX 1
Table 4
KENYA
POPULATION PROJECTIONS a/
SELECTED AGE GROUPS
AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL POPULATION
1985         1990         1995        2000
Female
<15                  26.1         26.3         25.6         24.9
15-49                20.4         20.3         21.1         21.8
50+                   3.8          3.6          3.5          3.5
Male                                                                                   a
<15                  26.2         26.6         26.0         25.2
15-49                19.7         19.7         20.6         21.4
50+                    3.8         3.5          3.2          3.2
Total
<15                  52.3         52.9         51.6         50.1
Dependency          121.1        122.8        116.0        109.0
ratio b/
a/ World Bank estimates based on the 1979 Kenya Census and
assuming net reproduction rate (NRR, see definitions)
of 1 by 2050.



-43-
ANNEX 1
Table 5
KENYA
SELECTED DETERMINANTS OF FAMILY PLANNING
1984, 1989
Rift
Variable      Kena  Nairobi  Central Coast  Eastern  Nyanza  Valley  Western
Ideal Family
Size a/
1984         6.3      4.3      5.4      6.1      5.4      5.9    6.5      6.0
1989         4.4      3.6      3.8      5.6      4.2      4.6    4.7      4.9
Don't Want
More bl
1984        31.5    32.6      41.2    20.4      43.6    24.2   29.0    34.1
1989        49.4    43.7      67.3    28.0      59.7    41.7   49.7    43.2
Knowledge of at
least 1 method b/
1984        84.0    84.5      90.0    80.2      88.0    87.5   69.5    68.7
1989        91.3    94.8      95.8    92.3      92.7    93.3   84.6    90.6
Female Approval
of Family
Planning b/
1984        76.2    79.7      85.7    75.4      73.6    79.3   74.7    69.9
1989        88.2    92.1      92.0    77.7      91.0    93.8   81.1    87.7
Sources: KDHS, 1989
KCPS, 1984
a/ All women of reproductive age.
b/ Percentage of currently MWRA.



-44-
TAMLE e
CIIACEPTIVE PREVALENCCE RATES
VARIOUS SCEAIOS
Selected vases
KFS       KCPS      mmOHS   |          bASE CASE */         I            HIGH CASN  bJ/                   LUW CASE C/
1977/78     194      1989         1990      19IS      2900  I       1990      1995      2000  I       1990      199S      2000
*  I t$s M W 0 1     W                                 I                                 I    t E          -.W..
TOTAL CPR              7         17        27    I       2e         as        a1           29        ao         48a          28        80        82
,_ ,* ~~~~~~~~~I    _ __ _ I                                                   _         _         -__I ___ _
I                               I                                 I
MOmMETHIOPS           4         10        18 e           19    ,24           291          20        27         *4o          19        21        28
-          -        --I               _       _ _ I                                    --I _____
Tmporary ebthods    8           7        18 i           14        19        241          1S        22        291           14        16        18
Surgibal Method      1          *s I                     6 s                 S            5         6          SI           6         6         S
TRADITIONAL                                9              9         9 1                    B         0          9            9         9         9
. Assume graoh In  odern te9orory asibods of 103o %     e r, 6tof   Ich 43 growt o M  ead 6X growth of  srket  p_atrstlon.
b. Ausume growth In modern toporary methods of 145 per yar, of whIch 43i gmh  ot 1W  end IOI growth of earkot p  etratlon.
e. Assue  growth in modern teporary sethods of IS per your. of ehibc 4S growth ot MM  and OX growt of mrke pnetratloon.



-45-
ANNEX 1
Table 7
KENYA                                                                 VA
CONTRACEPTIVE USAGE
8... Cm. Scenario */
Soeleted Years
1994       1996        1996       1997        1999        1999       2000
_ :=                 _          _a    mm                   - 
CONTRACEPTIVES (in '000) b/
Orals
Micregynon         8,94S      4,SS7       4,71        5,24U      5,778       6,85        0,985
Eugynon              811        692        9g1        1,079      1,187       1,806       1,487
Neogynon             460        495         54S         599        659         725         797
Microlut             698        762         68          922      1,015       1,116       1,228
Condom              16,828     17,955      19,751      21,720     28,899      26,268      20,917
IWDs                    9         106         116         129        141         155        170
VFT-                 a,708      4,078       4,461       4,929      5,422       5,964       6,660
InJectable.          1,442      1,86        1,745       1,919      2,111       2,822       2,55S
NORPLNT                  5          5           6          6           5           5          5
a. Assums growth In all contraceptives lited above except NORPLANT of lo1 per yer,
of which 4X growth of   A and ON growth of mrket penetration.
b. Assume no change in contraceptive mix over the period.



-46-
ANNEX 1
Table 8
KENYA
CONTRACEPTIVE USAGE
High Case Scenario */
Selected Years
1994        1995        199         197         1998        1999        2000
_=a=a                                                        == = 
CONTRACEPTIVES (in '000) b/
Orals
Mlcrosynon          0,948       4,495       5,124        5,842       6,060       7,592        8,656
Eugynon               611         925        1,054       1,202       1,370       1,562        1,780
Ne oynon              450          518         585         667         760          866         086
Microlut              698         790          901       1,027       1,170       18l4        1,621
Condoms              18,328      18,608       21,218      24,188      27,569      81,429       85,829
IWO                      96         109          125         142         162          165         211
YFTe                  8,708       4,221        4,812       6,466       6,254       7,180        8,128
Injeeoables           1,442       1,644       1,874        2,186       2,485       2,776        8,165
UNPLAUNT                  5           6            6           6           5            5           6
a*. Assumes a 143 per year increas  in all contraceptives listed above except NORPLANT,
of which 4X Increas  in MRA and 10  incrase In market penetration.
b. Assu    no change in contraceptive mix over the period.
I



-47-
ANEX 1
Table 9
KENYA
CONRA CEPTIVE USAGE
Low Case Scenario a/
Selected Year.
1994       1995        19          100        10          190        2000
a NCRAUIEm5 (In '000) b/
Oral*
Mlcrognon          5,04        4,219      4,514       4,680      5,.68       5,580       5,917
Eumnm                811         860        929         994       1,068      1,187       1,217
Neognon              450         482        515         661        590         681         675
MIcrolut             698         742        708         849        908         972       1,040
Condoms             16,282      17,466     16,688      19,996     21,890      22,894      24,406
1                       96        108         110         118        126         185         144
VTe                  8,708       8,902      4,240       4,86U      4,854       6,194       6.567
Injectable           1,442      1,648       1,651       1,787      1,190       2,022       2,184
N-3PWT                   5          5           5           5          5           5           5
a. Assumes a 73 per year Increa In all contraceptives listed above except NORPULNT,
of which 43 Increae In OM  and 85 Increase In mrket penetration.
b. Ammane no change In contraceptive mix over the period.



-48-
ANNEX 1
Tablo 10
KENYA
CONTRACEPTIVE COSTS a/
By Sc.noerol
Selected Years
(in mIllIone, 1989 KSH)
1994        1995        1990        1997        1"8         19           2000
-            -           _3          -          =3          =3    =
8ASE CASE SCENARIO b/
TOTAL Costs                  68.5        97.1       100.6       117.1        126.6       141.3       156.2
of which:
InjreCtbles                81.7        84.9        86.4        42.2        48.4         61.1        68.2
HIGN CASE SCEIARIO c/
TOTAL Coste t*0.                        100.6       114.4       180.1       146.0        166.6       191.8
of which:
InJecthbles                81.7        86.2        41.2        47.0        68.6         61.1        69.6
LOW CASE SCENiARO d/
TOTAL Cos"t                  80.5        94.5       101.0       107.9       115.8        128.8       181.8
of which:
Injectable.                81.7        88.9        86.8        88.9        41.6         44.6        47.6
a. Figures bhed on 1999 coat  nd expressd In milIIons of 1999 KSH.  Also assume
no chang In eontraceptive six over the period.
b. Assume grewth o In 11 tporary modsen methods of contraception  xce   NORPLANT
of 1OK per year of which 4X growth of M4NA and 63 growth of market penetration.
c. Assumes growth in alI temporary modern method. of contraception except NORPLANT
of 14X per yer of which 4X Inerase in UWtA and 10t Incrse In market penetration.
d. Assumes growth In all temporary modern methods of contraception exept NORPLANT
of 73 per year of which 4X increae In MA and 8X Inereae_ in market penetration.



-49-
AMl    2
List of Detailed Cost Tables
1. Costs Including Contingencies, by Functional Component, by
Year
2.   Costs Excluding Contingencies, by Functional Component, by
Year
3.  Summary Account, by Functional Component, by Expenditure
Category



-50-
wwA
FPa03   POUATION POACT                           ANNEX 2
Pr.Js Ce _mp    abv b It,                         Table 1 Page 1
Tobta  Inaludlig CostiugsnoIa
i           son         am          am           1194         1111        100        total
A. CUICWTM  WI.LY
a. DvW  FAILY NELT           1040601.0  m81149.1  611011.6 .6016174.6    48*819.4             416.0    461443.3 192678114.0
1. DMT U       IICS a am       0#I .6    1m0.1   1860.0   I6688"?.0    740100.             0 700741.0    muas.2 e31ueoo.7
S. n11                         312o410.11    860.*    T8".1    1101.9                0.0          0.0          0.0   640642.7
4. IOWLANT                      T111117.0   6870108.1   6406747.1   6096U.9          0.0          0.0          0.0  "314031.1
Sub-Total                       1106651680.0  0660111.6  72480.4  t7M240.6   11aM.&    L113097m             1801866.1 884767061.4
S. PAILY PL0MI    PUOMIMO
a. PWmt Ec                     6U86.4   7111710.0   Od077.$   664129                 0.0          0.0          0.0  82417170.4
S. CAumC.zSU0EDAT              u11aa.?   7a,a"W.0   ntsus.1    namU .$               0.0          0.0          0.0  31682667.4
B. aMP   UDICAL 68C           6     .0   6883110.4   1*00.0   14866U0.0    491681.1          U121.9    647410.   116304.2
4. IIYII  DAt 4WUe11 TI_T     aSasu7.e   u       .o    a*tio.8    601.               0.0          0.0          0.0  26677090.0
6. 9011, ACtVII               71s17.0           0.9          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0  70716778.9
S. VASCTOY CLNC                 14810.6    67,1442.4    407111.1    420600.          0.0          0.0          0.0   1778840.4
7. UODOMU  UF IALIW (MOI    87191611011.1       0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0  67626981.2
8gb-Toal                        15166611.1 1  M116163.6  10106.7  17490884.6    491UI11.3        Si.         647420.3  22116
C. II11O
S. Dlo IL OM                  8766641.4      7449.  641100.3             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0 166640190.
2. OIIItCT FOCU               41140610.    616.0   6070M.2   0290060.4   616218.1   46107670.8   6981641.65  6161266.6
6. 1.01101  UP    OPT           40608.7   14766311.1   166118.0   1617710.0          0.0          0.0         0.0   60601.6
4. EC                         1101088.4         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0  71106012.4
_______.__~~~~~~~~~ ..  ................    .                      --- -____ _____ _____
lab-Totl                        1447611 .0  7S86474.0  761167831.1   M70771.8   6162866.1    667010..8    68864.6 817161079.2
0. 66315AMS JVD*ALIATIOM        454487110.0       0.0         0.0    307881.4          0.0          0.0         0.0  34886101.4
total POOJCT cmT                *4431861.0  1U77.0  104011.1  1061116097.9   720117.8   6846401.0    6764964.6  900769011.4
1  .,,  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _



-51-
151                                  ANNEX 2
P.s  reSAATN baCw                              Table 1 Page 2
Toutl Includiln  C.atlasaqlon
1U0         afW         19s1i       1to"         1194         1ow         im         Toel
A. COIIIAWTI"v W.P9Y
1. o0v OF FPMILY NMI".         444000.2   278 0.0   200M710.1   8134207.0          1921110.0    201b. U.1    2 .7   1U77
2. Otn OF UstitUCS 8 011         111.4       041.7        300.0    7n2o.o          334.9         646.8 9743311.0         7IM.7
S. PPM                          14 1.2         6.4        317.4        8113.7         0.0           0.0         0.0    u46174.7
4. hIW.j                        83008111.5    0 .        M070.4    363021.2           0.0           0.0         0.0   127600.7
Sulk-Tota                         a02 u2100.1               2n1.0    _n.o            *4U.9          U81.4      63181.1   16217682.4
S. FAMlLY FlAMM  P6O101
1. WFA  la                      87144.4      wUi.1    42744".1    a10a87.o            0.0           0.0         0.0   1475710.6
2. CATUsc salAMT                 uM".*        aM11.u      muao.i    370080.6          0.0           0.0         0.0   1446940.8
S. CrESWIT USICAL Amc           87440.0    n 72n.4        01o0.0      080          22316.0      21111.6     242.7         83110.2
4. 5151  DAY AOvITR8T            0111.8    207166.0  _ 1611.4         2_11.4          0.0           0.0         0.0   1312606.0
S. 1I1'S *ctInTI               8     t1440.7     0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0   8211440.7
S. VACTOW  CLINIC                 M17.0      168.7        16828.0     19622.7         0.0           0.0         0.0      106.4
7. 11t1113 W 15.3 (SAG)        1700756.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0   1706766.9
Sub-TOtl                            6 1.0   1201142.4    946814.8    706201.9        22356.0       23511.6     246t2.7  10062881.0
C. "M
:. DUT'IL 0OM                  141113.1   2813624.6    M207.4             0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0   7211037.2
S. DtJ81lCT FOcuS              167004.9    876010.1    21360.6    268011.0    204111.6         2044.6    316070.2    39109.0
8. LOIISI   h1* _  lIT           8404.6      Olyl.        7M10.7      73066.9         0.0           0.0         0.0    27376.0
4. IMC                         82206             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0   3      1.6
SuIb-Totl                         6011.1    8l143.7   an         .9 U62118.0 3560.t    204106.6   201641.6    816070.2  14410412.7
0. 111*0 AM SVAUAAIOI             167080n.          0.0         0.0      13970.6         0.0           0.0         0.0   168436U.2
_ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....  .    .._....-.- .-__ .__.__________
Total PIOJIC1S cOsts             2e10166.0   t020188.2   7406250.2   417749.9    3600.            37365.6     8046.1  41270004.8
2/20/1@ 0 $411



-52-
ANNEX 2
Table 2 Page 1
"J- 4m C_ c
Pejat Cp..psaem  by 2w
so" coonn                                                Utw
gmas               ma         sas         low.         low          is"      mm         usa
A. caaaaMDTw an,
1. 01t O FMIL SL L1W          34663.6    h3S31.8   Unow.2  91,4261.9              Ulau.6       a    .4    aams1.4 u1ns701.0  12sa4a1a.3
a. 0et O WITuxc  a am          alin.          1P.8   aaa1n1s..   U       s.O    5_ l104..       11..       pug..s   Y111017.O    auuss9.6
a. wPe                          "sa".I    e1sawa          _sss.0       ua1a.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   40Us..    uam.s
4. UWEASt                        AlS- u- 65ia    aUm .4   614140.0                    0.0          0.0         0.0  Msam.2   11603-s
$16--twoof                      sWmia.a  .m 0as..          _m ..   fo0as.o    01022.s            9iams       Slam.$ anum4.s    aU2<0ol.4
S. FAULT PLA5MIN 3O61
5. WANX Mc                       03.6         06U.t   1m1.3    6434w.1                0.0          0.0         0.0   Nas.a.,    saa..4
I. cA auc U?AIAT               1686106.3    in i  .0   Ion .*    owl  .6              0.0          0.0         0.0   mos$M..   12040a.s
a. I I F   351CM. ASM9         135.6   44111115.6   1311111.$   31621111.$    31829.0          "118301.    anus...  u'4m.ag        1s161.:
4. SlS   SAT 856131            a      .    fou8.0 180.91U.6    613.0                 0.0          0.0         0.0   mmama    asos0o.o
a. ur11s ACnVM                onsbo.0            0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  o6u9.0   aonu.s
*. wagACTO  OJaC t6DUlm a                          .'    a. a_.e    a4.u              0.0          0.0         0.0   a.a            71142.2
7. 1165  P WAL1N OM            66168154.0        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  asoa..   1111U621u:.r
6ub..tota                       14Os0lim.4   aUsaaiaa.a   In1        1a1144a41.a    117aoo0.0   aO.o         It o.o  s.sums.    9019617.0
C. Mo
a. DmliIL Ow                   vausa.2  assn1s.a   aus.s                  0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  stao$M.o o049160.1
2. OUI"CT P05                  a1 3.6   fn"".2  2U870U1.4   6161081.4    11*a. 4                u2s 42.a$   4$NM.$  7og".O   a*al77a.4
a.  uWsr    Wi     sw omsin" ..   s o.0    mu .o    66Ih.o                           0.0          0.0         0.0  SU2aOo.O    2W000u0.
4. tat                         SuaS0.0            0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0  soaaa.0 o      1o394s.s
Sub-totl                        1U630.0  01408006.6  IS6141.3   641"6 16.4    486128.6    411126.8   48"2.3  211166.6  1163727.29
o. 0      1nAe m  ILYATIR        _88090.0           0.0         0.0     090000.0        0.0          0.0         0.0  _11ag0a.0   164U1111.6
ToteI *S.PU 6t51               41815.1  1411.3  107400141.0  s0651.4   6147134.1    6141" 4.1   3141464.1  s11lm3s1.2  36922042.2
PI,solse  C.atapeuOsI         1667061.6   111811.5    433.6    8816.1                0.0          0.0          0.0  336116.1   1611180.4
Price C"s                     1664114.   1483108.1          1.0   1       .          o.o          o.o          o.o  1       .    6s0o.
Tot. tRmncT  CStS               4404666.0 16116110.  1101160.6   1U61 83.9   70110111.6    I6O02.    3134.6 90116331.4  41210904.
Tuft.                               0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Fot40p  aieap"               86161624.4  1141116217.6 1U17"11443.7  1121346.1   1621164.3    11M18.3   1171416.0 63661341.6  6610316.2
2,so,oM co



-53-
ANNEX 2
Table 3 Page I
Amal   4
Om
1. twis_tw#t cm
A. CIVU 11111iol0310s0    0611.                                  00          0.       0115.0 44111411?6  110416.                                  sTl' 392 ?28
CAuL? .     113O11 t                   CIIUI                           631CM. etT5321A"   331             1 0.001       1oLn2
46 6311.    A 03 489411 ll  3           0L1    451*10 UIIIC  WIS ATI N    3        Mvmht   1CtgvazgSa    C e           3on
a. eCIVL 35m                     6117611.0                          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0 171.6  .                   .0         0.0  2920023)0
6. 1110.1                       63a7 6111.1      0.0    4611.7           0.0    6964.6        34146.6    6366.6    461.7              0.0         0.0         0.0
C. R66~~~3~   161310.0         0.0         0.0         0.0~~O      0.0    1101.4       3660.9    U864.J             0.0         0.0   6SNIIS.2
0. MAIUU                         lOUi.)   1461.7   36030.6   13016.1   6110.6    3246.    331f.6    660.6  14060.0    611642.2                                0 0
t. TlI                           4634.1     46400       30166            0.0   41190.0    1It4.t         7666.5    614?.?  31"2100.0    1919090.1   133211.1
*. CmUWIW         9            1616111.1          0.0         0.0   *6 61.0           0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
0. n16C. A33M                   11170000.0    10000.0         0.0  17430000.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0   1100.0            0.0         0.0
M. VIAMT. "MIM                       0.0    0000.0           0.0      . 0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0    1_300.0          0.0         0 0
1. o,mm  T1I0811                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
J. "IAllillm                   to0.0          I0OX0.0         0.0   166010.0 19 6 Z000.0    no11.0   060000.0    tt1o.0    "00000.0               0.0         0.0
Toutl oNulET COP"                           1106J _.T    _1119.T    1 1121 31     79.1  311114.0   331064.1  1011419.0  16p 940.&  61110o .0  711111.3    363604.9
It. uamiT c,-
a. YUAh11                        3117600O.0  4123111.0   3312000          0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0    6331260.0        0 0
e. U11                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0 0
C. M PO              0111             o.0         0.0    456410.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    332o0.o          o.o
0. UIItU?tIsUIIT                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
s. 6555* W.vlAlVa8               o000,11.1a       0.0    03UM$.           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
F. 6W2T6    3h1                   664.        662.8           .7          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0     21,09.7         0.0
0.   OUlO UAU36I                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    143924.?         0.0
H. Ain30 WPN00i                       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
Ultat  ai_IT ctn                371311161.4   M1.6   140111.6             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    637014.6         0.0
Total -SIOU  C10Il            311030.6   166.0   4616.4    1366.1  t371914.0 91661.6   31410.0  210104.   636630.0   1647616.?  33141164 9
ft1oiui Cmblomlem              713113.1      64111.6    33010.6     63167.1   463661.1    30611 1.6    416.l 3   311316.6   1141.0    1667.6  3116319.9
Price C4sl_lm_im               121111.9   1001414.0    416130.7   100407.0   3603140.6    8611.6   163141.3   164110117.0   14114.0   136007.1   1310920 4
totos       In 1              IM136.0   66603.?   6401.7  116146633.1 3T467370.4    .1114  31664.1  2610 0.6  01*111?.9   1771140.4  11626116.2
Uoose                               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
Pomlip Esce                  31145611.6   1266111.1   3661611.1  211114.3   6441_.4    3 6663361.3       166406.1  31660.   1263M11 .7    46110.6  26291696 2
_.16  ..6:0_______.__0................  _ __.__.______,,.,,, ...................................................------------.-..-.-.-____---------.-.--__
f/fo/z9 0  @1|
MU



-54-                                    ANNEX 2
Table   _ Page  2
PO" PtamuUa PRmoCi
Smta  AccOMt by Project Cmpmst
Physlcal              Price
LmlEnM                  AESSARO4                             Cootlng1et            cootingaocie
5TI'tL    015110T       lUA.    .  ...
o011       Mocus        01T          IEC      EVALUATION          Tool            I       A to          S I    Amount
.as.
1. INVIS1NT Cos.
A. CIVIL                   1114817110.0  12.1120.0          0.0         0.0         0.0    164160677.0         10.0  19426067.7        6.9  17101945.6
S. V8t4L1                          0.0   *9166.2            0.0         0.0         0.0       61SI66.6          6.0    610406.0        4.0    660417.0
c. FlltNI                   101610011.   11047.3          0.0         0.0         0.0      14111IM1.1         6.0    748411.1       14.0   2008476.3
0. NATISR.                         0.0   11163161.4         0.0  4272060.0          0.0      6580.6             5.0 4 4210110.5        6.2   6000407.4
t. 1wIPlDT                  100U86.04      79OU6.2          0.0  165127600.0        0.0      5475260.3          5.0   27s7964.6        0.1    330129.2
P. CWe     tzVt  9UfS              0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0    202M0119.8           0.0         0.0       10.4  21047437.4
0. TEOZICAL ASSISTMI               0.0         0.0          0.0   426e610.0         0.0      46111500.0         0.0         0.0       10.3   473026.9
M. EVALUATION, UTOSIMS             0.0   1100000.0          0.0         0.0  33560000.0      373416.0           0.0         0.0        4.1   1540008.4
I. 01ERSA TRUtAIW                  0.0         0.0    6t42W0 J          0.0         0.0       6442100.0         0.0         0.0       11.5    0269t1.6
J. TRAIMIN                         0.0  2900000.0           ).o   3300000.0         0.0      627410.0           0.0         0.0       10.1   6390964.6
Total DIVt76 CosTS         1u1N2.7   51735020.0    6424110.0  61113600.0  3356000.0    750414.6                 3.6   26462.1          6.8  64701372.7
It. R1081 CO1sT
A. UAKtS                           0.0   U364200.2         0.0          0.0         0.0    126760T.0            0.0         0.0       22.6   6657594.6
9. AU.010                          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0             0.0         0.0         o.o        o.o         0.0
C. Put 0OM3                        0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0       6106706.0         0.0         0.0       13.2    306954.6
0. JTIunIIuEpus                    0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0            0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
E. 111C0. OPURATIU/vAINT           0.0   9733404.5         0.0          0.0         0.0      14977624.6         0.0         0.0       1e.   2809673.0
F. E1glPVI? UADINU6                0.0   29-002.4          0.0          0.0         0.0       m114066.6         0.0         0.0       21.6    669106.7
0. WILOIS MAIfN      nC            0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        13924.           0.0         0.0       13.3     19174.4
H. FRIM   WAI _IuSU                0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0            0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Total REIMET C05S                  0.0  14007616.0         0.0          0.0         0.0      53101.7            0.0         0.0       20.4  10061702.3
Total tSELII CIS1S         18196011.27   7016146.9   64420.0  6161361100.0  U3350000.0    60391616.2            3. 1 2154902.1         9.4  r1s23075.0
Physical cotIl go1.       1u3163.0    6715610.0          0.0   29406.0            0.0 on1164961.1
Prlc Coutlo-Matlie       1476707.1,  s0m36.6    212601.6   24907.4   13106101.41    7512071.0                1.    2103U0.6
Total 6*0160 cOS           1566416 6  61892155 6S  606191.6  710696112.4  34101.4           9796965.4           6.4  s3462.6           6.3  75023075.0
tugS                             0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0             0.0         0.0         0.0
Foreign Ixabco           103164171.6  31576.6   6061101.6  895659.                0.0    611617487.4          3.6   I1111011.2
2/20/1990 6:6



-55-
ANNEX a
KENYA   FQTH POPULATION PROJECT
la 
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US11 IWO)
IDA Flecal Year      Disburnem.ot   Accumulated  Accumulated X
A Quarter Ending   During Quarter  Disbursement  Diebursement
Sept. 8o, 100                 5W0            600            1.4
Dec. 81, 1990                 S00           1000            2.9
March 81, 1091                S0            1600            4.8
June 8, 1991                  S0            2000            6.7
FY92
Sept. go, 1991                ?00           2700            7.1
Doe. al, 1901                 700           8899            9.7
March 81, 1 m                 908           4a82           12.6
Jun. 80, 1992                 98s           6884           16.8
FY8s
Sept. so, 1992               1174           8588           18.7
Dec. 81, 1992                1174           7712           22.0
March S1, 108                 8l6           9028           26.8
Jun. 80, 1998                18le 81084                    29.6
FY94
Sept. 80, 1008               1624          11967           84.2
Doe. 81, 1998                1624          18500           88.8
Uarch 81, 1994               1402          16072           48.1
June 80, 1994                1482          1e654           47.8
FY9s
Sept. o, 1994                2148          18702           58.4
Dec. 81, 1994                2148          20860           59.6
M"rch 81, 1995               1557          22407           64.0
June 80, 1996                1667          28908           68.6



-56-
ANNEX 8
KENYAs FOUMTH POPULATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSENENTS
(USI'000)
IDA Fiscal Year       Disburseo  nt   Accumulated  Accumulated X
& quarter Ending    During quarter  Disbursement  DiObursement
FY06
Sept. 80, 1995                1667          26520           72.9
Dec. 81, 1905                 1657          27076           77.4
March 81, 1996                1416          28491           81.4
June 80, l190                 1415          29008            6 .4
FY97
Sept. 80, 1996                1416          l3121           89.6
Dec. 81, 1996                 1416          82786           98.6
March 81, 1997                1182          83660           98. 
June 80, 1997                 1182          a5000          100.0
Note: The standard disburement profile for Kenya was applied to
an amount of US$ 28.8 million. Estimated disbursements of
the remaining USS 6.7 million for lnjoetables were then
added to the standard protilo amount.



-57-
ANNEX 4
REFERENCES
Republic of Kenya, (1980) Kenya Fertility Study 1977-78,
Central Bureac of Statistics.
, (1984) Kenya Contraceptive Prevalence Survey 1984,
Central Bureau of Statistics.
, (1984) Population Policy Guidelines, Sessional
Paper No.4 of 1984.
, (1986) Guidelines for District Population and
Family Planning Committees, District Focus
Circular No.2/86.
, (1989) Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 1989,
NCPD.
World Bank (1988) Employment and Growth in Kenya:  A World Bank
A World Bank Economic Report, No.7393-KE.
___________ _ , (1989) Rural Finance Review:  Sector Report,
Agriculture Operations Division, Eastern
Africa Department, Report No.8138-KE.



-58-
ANNEX 5
Relevant IDA Projects
Effective
Credit Name                 Number         Amount                Date
First Population Project        CR 468-KE      US$12 m'llion          1974
Integrated Rural Health         CR 1238-KE     SDR 20.5 million       2/83
and Family Planning
Project
Third Population                CR 1904-KE     SDR 9 million          2/89
Project



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
INJECTABLE CONTRACEPTION
1.        Injectable contraception has been in use from the early 1960's
and at present is in increasing demand in many developing countries. Of
those in common use, the best known and the most researched are Depo-
Provera (DMPA for short) and Noristerat (NET-EN for short). DMPA has been
in use since the 1970's and NET-EN since 1980.  They contain synthetic
hormones similar in action to the natural female hormone progesterone.
2.        Though injectables have the highest effectiveness rate of any
reversible contraceptive and have been shown to have far fewer life
threatening complications than any of the other systemic contraceptives,
they have nevertheless been subjected to an international controversy
exceeding that surrounding any other method of contraception. The
controversy falls under two headings -
A.   the scientific
B.   the political and ethical
A.   The Scientific Controversy
When the manufacturers of DMPA applied for USFDA license to
manufacture and distribute the drug in the United States, they
were turned down. The basis of the denial was that DMPA could
not be considered as entirely safe since there was a potential
of its causing cancer in women and foetal malformation if given
early in pregnancy. This derived from the finding that DMPA, at
many times the dose to be used by women, when given to beagle
bitches, led to the development of breast tumors in the beagles.
The 'WHO's Toxicology Review Panel, the International Medical
Advisory Panel of IPPF and many respected human reproductive
scientists went through the evidence and came to the conclusion
that the facts did not warrant withholding the licensing of the
drug. It was also pointed out that the beagle was a poor model
for the study of these particular hormones since they
metabolized them differently from humans. Several studies on
human beings were cited showing the effectiveness and the safety
of Depo-Provera. The FDA's own Advisory Committee on Obstetrics
and Gynecology and the one on Biometrics and Epidemiologic
Methodology advised that the drug be approved because
scientifically it had proved to be effective and safe. It had
proved not to have many adverse side effects and it did not show
any long term effect on any infants whose mothers had used DMPA.
Similar findings were available at a later time for NET-EN.
Despite all this, the USFDA refused to license the drug and so
USAID could not supply it.



-60-
ANNEM 6
Page 2 of 4
The FDA admitted that refusal to license the drug was based ons
(a) risk benefit ratios for U.S. women; and (b) the availability
of adequate alternatives in the U.S. Neither of these points
really impugned the safety or effectiveness of the drug.
Several European countries also took a hard look at the findings
and most of them have licensed the drug for use.
B. The Political and Ethical Controversy
The fact that the drug once given stays in the bo)dy for three
months has been used as a point against it by womens' groups.
These groups contend that such a drug ensured that women had no
control. Injectables have been at the center of some legal
'battles" in treating individuals against their will. The
ethics of using a drug in LDCs not approved for use in the
country in which it was developed has posed a problem for some.
At present, almost all injectables in use in LDCs are produced
in Europe where they are licensed. They are used in the U.K.,
West Germany, Scandinavia and Canada.
Inlectables in Use
4.       O0e injection lasts two to three months.  DMPA is effective for
three months but if a user fails to return for re-injection on time, the
chances are that she would not risk pregnancy provided she came back within
the next two weeks. NET-EN, on the other hand, has to be given, at least
in the first year, at 8-weekly intervals. Some studies have shown that
after the first six months so one year, the drug can be given at three-
monthly intervals the same way as DMPA. Both these drugs have side effects
which some women do not like. They interfere with the regular menstrual
cycle and, in some cases, the cycles do not occur at all. This may cause
alarm among users as to whether they are pregnant or they may be pregnant
and not know it. Another problem is irregular or spotty bleeding which
makes injectables a difficult method for women whose religion or culture
forbids their performing some household chores when they are menstruating.
Unlike the combined oral pills, injectables have so far not been linked
with any of the more serious and potentially fatal thromboembolic phenomena
or cardiovascular accidents, such as strokes or heart attacks.
5.        In the developing countries, DMPA has been studied most
extensively in Thailand. DMPA has been used extensively in Mexico, Kenya,
Zimbabwe, Ghana, Nigeria and Tanzania. It is in high demand by women who
find it more suitable to their conditions and the protection of their
privacy.



-61-
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
Side Effects and Complications
6.        As stated, there are no lethal complications known for women
using injectables, in fact, they are less likely to have strokes and
similar illnesses than women on the pill. The injectables also have one
advantage in that they do not decrease the supply of milk to the infant and
some studies reported they increased it. They are therefore good for
nursing mothers. There has been a question, however, as to whether the
transfer of tiny amounts of the hormone to the infant can have any possible
consequences on it in the future. This remains to be finally determined
although some studies indicate that no such ill-effects are probable.
7.        The one serious side effect of the injectable is excessive
endometrial bleeding which occurs in a few women. However, if this occurs,
estrogen therapy or a couple of cycles of an oral contraceptive can treat
it. Any woman who bleeds excessively while on Depo-Provera or NET-EN needs
to have careful examination to exclude more serious pathologies such as
cancer of the cervix or other parts of the womb.
Return to Fertility
8.        One of the most important questions asked about injectables is
whether or not they cause infertility in a proportion of women. The
evidence is that in most women, return to fertility after withdrawal of an
injectable follows a pattern similar to that with the pill but slower. In
some cases, there is a delay. Compared to the pill, the delay on a
population basis is no more than six months. There is no evidence that the
injectables cause permanent infertility.
Iniectables in National Programs
9.        To use injectables effectively in a national family planning
program, certain conditions have to be met. First, there should be a clear
decision that they will not be the only or even the main contraceptives to
be used; thai there will be what we call "a cafeteria of methods" available
for the population to choose. By a cafeteria of methods, we do not
necessarily mean making available every type of pill or every type of
injectable that is available. There should be groups of methods. There
should be pills, injectables, surgical means, and the conventional methods
such as spermicide and condoms and there should be training for periodic
ab3tinence. Next, it is important to ensure the regular availability of



-62-
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
all of these methods. Third, counselling and full explanation to clients
must be ensured. It is not enough simply to show a person several methods
and how to use each one. The advantages and disadvantages of each of the
methods and the type of problems to be expected should be made known.
Next, there should be a back-up system ranging from village midwives right
up to hospital care which will be available for those patients or clients
who run into side effects or any serious trouble. It is not enough to tell
clients that troubles will be a mild headache or slight nausea. Even a
mild headache or a slight nausea may be interfering with an individual's
activities and thoughts; therefore there should be a provision made for
such problems to be attended to very quickly and correctly. Trained staff
from health centers, hospitals, and so on, should all be available to
assist.
10.       When dealing with the injectables in particular, asepsis needs
to be maintained at all times. Because of the AIDS epidemic, programs
should ensure that needles and syringes used for injections are sterilized
between one patient and another. Where possible, disposable units should
be used. It must be stressed here that there have been no reports linking
injectables with AIDS. The advise is good preventive practice as advocated
for immunization programs. A follow-up program, together with research
component which ensures that supplies are used properly, that complications
and side effects are identified, documented and treated, and that
scientific evaluation of what is happening is faithfully undertaken, must
be mandatory within all national family planning programs.
11.       Who is the most suitable candidate for injectables?  It is
particularly suitable for women living in conditions where personal hygiene
is difficult and where water supply is undependable. It has proved
particularly useful for women with sickle cell disease. It is a good
method for women who cannot use the pill or in whom IUDs have failed.
Women with complications which can be assigned to the estrogen content of
the pill, such as high blood pressure, are better off on an injectable. It
is also more suitable for women who are likely to forget dates and
appointments. In addition, it is more suitable than the combined pill for
women breastfeeding.
12.       Finally, it must be stressed that this method is very popular
because it is very safe, effective and convenient. There are no valid
scientific reasons for not using injectables in national programs and every
reason to do so. The method is approved by the WHO and the IPPF - two
agencies with a truly international perspective on health and safety issues
in the field of family planning.



IBRD 21992
S U D A N                                                           KENYA
DISTRICT POPULATION PROGRMS
A                          {)              o'&4A 
)|_   URW4A,                               
RIFT
<  9  ALlEY  )\oL    EASTERN                              N K  ORTS
znentoa Boundaries 
] UfSTw  iU    \             f            \    W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It'A/lR
<~~~~~~~~ so                         ioo Milesu 
tTwA^'XAtRsA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ecme 1989J   95  
, | 8ARINC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O_
q                      X     Y eb N,~~~Y                  A     G ^  CAR15SACARISSA1;ft
$ RIFT Y AIROBt) KITUI                      KRIN YA G
IVAROK<                                                             W/AU
Pupulation IV Distrt    2,       6           \            C           . \       e        >
C1  Population III Districts                  0/&                       
O     Province Capitals                         ,
49 National Capital                                 TA/T1     
Rivers                       ,                                                      SUDAN  I PIA
District Boundaries                                     J    MO,t4                  2tHOPA/
Kit'All%t   tpMIASA      _ -t
_    Province Boundaries                                                            ^ tLK+ v
International Boundaries                              >,q w^  Indiin
O           IT 1 t0   200 Kilometer                          a
S .' - ~~~';W^'  5~0                     l Miles t\.p  
December 1989



