Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19210
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
[Credit no. 2110-KE]
April 22, 1999
Africa Human Development Group I
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling
Appraisal: US$ 1 = KSH 22.0
Project Closing: US$ 1 = KSH 59.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FI[SCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS              Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CMASK             Crescent Medical Aid Society of Kenya
CPR               Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DfID              Department for Intemnational Development (U.K.)
FP                Family Planning
FPAK              Family Planning Association of Kenya
FPLMS             Family Planning Logistics Management System
GOK               Govemment of Kenya
GTZ               Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HIV               Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
IEC               Information, Education and Communication
KCS               Kenya Catholic Secretariat
KDHS              Kenya Demographic and Health Survey
MCH               Maternal and Child Health
MOH               Ministry of Health
MOPW              Ministry of Public Works
MPND              Ministry of Planning and National Development
MSCU              Medical Stores Coordinating Unit
NCPD              National Council on Population and Development
NGO               Non-Govermment Organization
PA                Payment Application
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SDA               Seventh Day Adventists
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
TFR               Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA             United Nations Family Planning Agency
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
VSCU              Voluntary Surgical Contraception Unit
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice-President:         Callisto Madavo (AFR)
Country Director:      Harold Wackman (AFC05)
Sector Manager:        Ruth Kagia (AFTH1)
Task Teamn Leader:      Andrew Follmer (AFTHI)



TABLE OF CONTENTS
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
PRE1FACE .I....................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................                                                                                        ii
INTRODUCTION ....................................                                                                                           ii
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..................................... j
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ............................................................................u.......................... U
FuTuRE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..............................................................................................V
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..............................................1
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND ..............................................                                                                   1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES .............................1........
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................................................................... 3
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE .............................4
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .............................8
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..9...........................9
BORROWER PERFORMANCE .............................9
BANK PERFORMANCE .............................9
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................................................................                                               10
FUTURE OPERATIONS ...................................................................... 11
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...................................................................... 12
IMPLEMENTATION  COMPLETION  REPORT ......................                                       ................................................ 13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ......................................................................                                            13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...................................................................... 13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS ......................................................................                                       14
TABLE 3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE ..................................................... .                                      ............... 15
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS, ESTIMATED AND ACTUAI ......................................................................                  16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....................................................                    ................. 18
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ..........................                          ............................................ 19
TABLE 7: STUDIES CONDUCTED ......................................................................                                          20
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS - STAFF APPRA1SAL REPORT ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL EXPENDITURES .........                                       ............... 2 1
TABLE 9: PROJECT FINANCING ....................................................................... 21
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ......................................................................                                 22
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAIL STATEMENTS ................................................................  24
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: ACTUALI STAFF INPJTS ...................2.................................................................... 25
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ......................................... 26
TABLE 14: TRENDS IN USE OF FAMILY PLANNING METHODS .............................................................................. 28
TABLE 15: SOURCE OF StUPPLY FOR MODERN CONTRACEPTIVE METHODS(°/O) .................................................... 29
FIGURE 1: TOTAL FERTILITY RATE AND CONTRACEPTIVE PREVALENCE RATE (1979-1998) ............                                    ..................... 30
FIGURE 2: CHILD HEALTH INDICATORS IN KENYA (1979-1998) . ................................................................ 30
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A: COMPLETION MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
APPENDIX B: CIVIL WORKS REPORT
APPENDIX C: BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
APPENDIX D: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR
APPENDIX E: MAP OF KENYA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2110-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Kenya Fourth Population Project, for
which Credit 21 10-KE in the amount of SDR 26.3 million (US$35.0 million equivalent at the prevailing
exchange rate) was approved on March 27, 1990, and made effective on September 25, 1990.
The credit closed on June 30, 1998, after a one-year extension of the original closing date. The last
disbursement was made on January 22, 1999. An undisbursed balance of SDR 5.19 million (US$ 7.05
million at the prevailing exchange rate) was canceled on March 15, 1999. Co-financing in the amount of
FIM 5.1 million was made available by FINNIDA. These funds were 88 percent disbursed, and the
undisbursed balance of FIM 595,885.65 was canceled on March 11, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Andrew Follmer, the Human Development Group I, Eastern and
Southern Africa; with support from Wacuka Ikua, Operations Officer, AFMKE, and Bert Voetberg,
Public Health Specialist, AFTHI. The report was reviewed by Mrs. Ruth Kagia, Sector Manager,
AFTH1, and Mr. Harold Wackman, Country Director for Kenya. The borrower reviewed the draft report
before it was finalized.
This report was prepared during an ICR mission in December, 1998, comprising Mr. Andrew
Follmer (Team Leader), Mr. Dick Coppinger (Civil Engineer, Consultant), Ms. Wacuka Ikua (Operations
Officer), Mr. Dahir Warsame (Procurement Specialist), and Mr. John Ogallo (Financial Management
Specialist). This report is based on information collected during that mission and material from the project
files.
Tlhe borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by contributing views as reflected in the
Completion Mission's Aide Memoire (Appendix A), by preparing its own Project Completion Report
(Appendix C), and by providing detailed comments on the parts of the ICR as it evolved and formally
responding to the draft ICR (Appendix D).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2110-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Kenya Fourth Population Project (Population IV) was undertaken by the Government of
Kenya (GoK) to provide for needs not anticipated under the Third Population Project (Population III).
Population III (Cr. 1904-KE, 1988-1996) became effective based on the following assumptions: (i)
prospects for fertility control in Kenya were bleak; and (ii) fertility rates would remain high due to
opposition to family planning and widespread lack of interest in family planning. However, the 1989
Kenya Demographic and Health Survey (KDHS) revealed surprising progress in population indicators -
including significant unmet demand for contraceptives. This information, combined with the shortfall of
funding available from donors at the time, led the GoK and The World Bank to develop Population IV,
with a principal focus on providing for the country's contraceptive needs and strengthening the
infrastructure of the population sector.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The objectives of the Fourth Population Project were: (i) to further increase the availability,
accessibility, and quality of family planning services provided by the Government and non-government
organizations (NGOs); (ii) to further strengthen the demand for FP services through expansion of
Information Education and Communication (IEC) programs to additional government ministries and
NGOs; and (iii) to further strengthen the capacity of the National Council on Population and
Development (NCPD) to plan and monitor the expanding national population program. While the project
development objectives should not have proven to be overly-ambitious, given the history of GoK-Bank
collaboration in this sector, they proved to be out of reach largely due to capacity and financial
management constraints which were not identified as risks in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). Despite
the improvement in fertility indicators, the project did not achieve its objectives. This is explained not by
a lack of progress in the population sector, but rather by the project's failure to significantly contribute to
that progress. While a case can be made that the cumulative investments under the first three population
projects continue to yield returns, the incremental impact of this project was small. Population I-III
provided a framework that could have formed a strong foundation for a well-designed, well-implemented
project. However, with much of implementation and nearly two-thirds of total disbursements taking
place within the last year, the accomplishments to date in the population sector, as measured by the 1998
KDHS, owe little to Population IV.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
3.    Implementation progress was unsatisfactory throughout the project life, albeit with significant
improvement during the one-year extension. While many factors contributed to this unsatisfactory
experience, the major causes were (i) weak procurement capacity; (ii) weak financial management; and



Evaluation Summary                                                             Page iii of vi
(iii) a failure to address known implementation constraints, both during the design of the project and
again when unfinished activities from Population III were subsumed under this credit.
4.     Procurement: The project was to provide for the sector's needs in terms of contraceptives and
contraceptive supplies, as well as civil works. Thus, the success of the project hinged largely on
successful procurement, and this was not accomplished until the last year.  While some smaller
procurements did take place earlier in the project, the only contraceptives supplied prior to the original
closing date were Norplant (procured on a single source basis) and an emergency procurement of
condoms, for which IDA procurement guidelines were waived. It was agreed during the February, 1997,
supervision mission that GTZ would be contracted as the procurement agent for all ongoing and future
procurements.  The impact of this decision was an easing of the procurement bottleneck, as a
procurement plan was developed and 10 tenders (contraceptive supplies and medical equipment) were
successfully floated, with contracts awarded totaling US$16.6 million. Among these were 5 tenders for
contraceptives and contraceptive supplies totaling $8.64 million.
5.    Disbursements and Financial Management: This project had no disbursements until a year
after effectiveness due to GoK delay in fulfilling the conditions of disbursement.  Subsequently,
disbursements proceeded so slowly that only 30 percent of the credit had been disbursed by the original
closing date. Due to the progress in procurement made possible by GTZ's involvement as procurement
agent, MOH's efforts to address the payment backlog, and intensified supervision by IDA, the one-year
extension resulted in disbursement of an additional 50 percent of credit proceeds. In addition to the lack
of procurement capacity, inordinate delay on the part of the GoK in processing payment applications
(PAs) was a significant factor in implementation delays. In addition, financial management within the
Project was inadequate, and audit performance was quite poor. No audit report was submitted on time
during the life of the project, and unresolved audit qualifications dating back several years and applying
to MOH, MPND, and Ministry of Home Affairs indicate that US$1.3 million in withdrawals cannot be
supported and should be refunded to IDA. Repayment of this amount was requested in a letter from the
Country Director on March 25, 1999.
6.     Civil Works:  While many of the civil works originally planned under this project--the
construction of a national headquarters for NCPD and 14 District Population Offices--were cancelled as
part of the restructuring following the mid-term review, works remaining unfinished from Population III
were transferred to Population IV upon that project's closing.  Thus, the 13 Voluntary Surgical
Contraceptive Units (9 carried over from Population III) and 21 project-financed NGO clinics comprised
the civil works under this project. Less than half of the VSCUs were fully operational at the time of the
ICR mission, though all but one were 80-90 percent complete with work continuing, financed by GoK.
Only five of the NGO clinics were completed, with mixed prospects for the completion of the rest.
7.    NCPD: Most of the activities planned to be undertaken by NCPD under this project were not
implemented. The project did finance a massive amount of training under Part C of the Project
(Strengthening of NCPD). While the trained staff are undoubtedly of benefit to the country as a whole,
the minimal retention of the staff by NCPD (15% of those trained) means that there was little positive
impact in terms of the desired institution building within that agency.
Major Factors Affecting the Project.
8.    The Factors Beyond the Government's Control were: (i) an economic downturn since 1992/93
which led to high inflation and a depreciation of the Kenyan shilling, resulting in cost variations, as well
as constraining counterpart funds; (ii) the difficulties of some NGOs in mobilizing the required
community contribution contributed to delays in the NGO-administered works, and (iii) Bank supervision
iii



Evaluation Summary                                                           Page iv of vi
lacked diligence in addressing implementation problems and in transferring unfinished activities from
Population III to this project without addressing the issues behind the implementation delays. Those
Factors Under the Government's Control included: (i) inordinately slow processing of payment
applications; (ii) liquidity problems resulting from the slow release of funds from Treasury, (iii) lack of
ministerial counterpart funds; (iv) slow clearance by the GoK Clearing Agent of exempted items through
the Ports Authority that resulted in lengthy delays and additional costs; and (v) poor performance of the
Ministry of Public Works (MOPW) in supervising civil works. Finally, the Factors Under the
Implementing Agency's Control were:-(i) poor procurement planning and weak donor coordination; (ii)
though slow payments were partially attributable to Ministry of Finance, the MOH's own processes and
inefficiencies were responsible for the larger share of delays; (iii) non-compliance and/or slow
compliance with IDA procurement guidelines, with the implementing agencies demonstrating a weak
commitment to address procurement capacity constraints; (iv) delays in fully adopting use of the Special
Account; and (v) weak financial management.
Borrower Performance
9.    Borrower performance at preparation was unsatisfactory. The project was prepared in response
to emerging needs in a collaborative fashion with IDA and donors. However, the failure to establish
mechanisms to address longstanding problems with regard to financial management, civil works
supervision, and procurement condemned the project to failure. Overall, Borrower performance during
Implementation was highly unsatisfactory. Though some progress was made in streamlining the MOH
payment procedure, there was a lack of commitment to ensuring proper financial management and
accountability. The lack of supervision of civil works, by MOPW, MOH, and NCPD, and the
unwillingness of the GoK to satisfactorily address the issue most responsible for delays in civil works
(e.g. unreasonably slow payment procedures) were the main causes of so many works being left
incomplete. Finally, while MOH cooperation with GTZ in procurement during the final year was
impressive, its management of procurement during the previous years was poor, and its commitment to
developing its own capacity under the capacity-building component of the contract with GTZ was weak.
Bank Performance
10.   Bank performance at Identifcation was unsatisfactory. While a project concept resulted which
was both consistent with the strategies of GoK and the Bank and responsive to the situation in Kenya's
population sector, the decision to develop a project to be implemented concurrently with an existing
project, instead of restructuring the existing project, doubled the administrative burden, led to projected
annual disbursements beyond the financial and administrative capacity of the Borrower, and over-
stretched the implementation capacity of the Borrower.  The performance of the Bank during
preparation was also unsatisfactory. The failure to incorporate measures to address issues which had
emerged in previous projects in the sector proved to be a serious oversight. Given that the Bank failed to
address problems that had emerged regarding financial management, procurement capacity, and
administrative capacity, and also failed to identify the risk these issues posed to the project, performance
at Appraisal was deficient. Performance during supervision was also deficient. From the start,
supervision missions failed to acknowledge the seriousness of implementation problems. Until late in the
project, ratings for the development objectives seem to have been based solely on the achievement of the
objectives within the sector, without regard to the project's contribution to these accomplishments.
Further, ratings and decisions regarding the continued implementation of this project were consistently
based on expectations rather than demonstrated performance. The shortcomings extended beyond the
task team--from disregarding Bank guidelines in sending the project to the board in spite of overdue
audits in the sector to looking the other way when a series of supervision reports indicated serious
problems, regional management was complicit in the Bank's failures. Finally, the Bank made poor
iv



Evaluation Summary                                                              Page v of vi
decisions in giving "no objection" to award contracts for civil works when there was insufficient time to
complete them.
11.   Project sustainability is unlikely, and the project's outcome was unsatisfactory, with the improved
performance of both the Borrower and the Bank in the final year ameliorating the highly unsatisfactory
outcome that would have resulted had the project closed on the original closing date. The primary
purpose of the project had been to provide for the population sector's needs in terms of contraceptive
supplies and civil works, so the failure to procure contraceptives until the final year and the fact that most
of the civil works were left incomplete clearly indicate an unsatisfactory outcome. However, the
concentration of expenditures at the end of the project makes it impossible to evaluate the impact of those
expenditures at this time.
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
12.   A focus on reproductive health should be an integral element in future IDA support to the health
sector. Such support should not only focus on providing for the country's growing contraceptive needs,
as Population IV sought to do, but should also attempt the following: (i) to more closely integrate
reproductive health strategies and activities under the Division of Family Health with STI/AIDS
strategies and activities under the National AIDS/STD Control Program; and (ii) to invest in
interventions, such as the reform of MSCU, that will increase the sustainability of the reproductive health
program, and (iii) facilitate decentralization and capacity-building at the level of health service delivery
points. Future operations will also need to focus more heavily on the reproductive health of adolescents
and on reducing geographic disparities in health services. However, IDA would be negligent to not
attach the following preconditions to any future IDA support to Kenya's health sector:  (i)  the
introduction of a streamlined payment procedure and increased accountability measures in the payment
system; (ii) the contracting of an independent procurement agent for all IDA-financed procurement; and
(iii) the enactment of measures to improve accounting and record-keeping. The Govemment should also
be strongly encouraged to complete at least those unfinished civil works under its direct control--the
VSCUs.
13.   Numerous key lessons can be drawn from the experience of this project. It is worth noting the
similarity and overlap between these and the lessons extracted in the ICR for Population III.
(i)   When previous projects have shown weaknesses in areas of financial management and accounting,
administrative capacity, procurement capacity, and/or project monitoring, new projects should not
be approved until these weaknesses have been addressed.
(ii) Where appropriate, the use of an independent procurement agent should be considered at appraisal,
particularly for the procurement of items such as contraceptives and STI drugs which require a high
degree of technical expertise, comprehensive logistics capacity, and forecasting capacity.
(iii) Through Population III and Population IV, the construction of facilities under IDA financing has
not contributed significantly to the achievement of project objectives, and has generally proven to
be a wasteful and inefficient use of scarce resources. No civil works should be undertaken in future
IDA-financed health sector operations until sufficient measures are enacted to prevent yet another
repeat of this outcome. Such measures should include avoiding the involvement of the Ministry of
Public Works, whose performance in supervision of works has been consistently unsatisfactory.
v



Evaluation Summary                                                                Page vi of vi
(iv) It is important that the Bank place greater emphasis on proper financial management. Projects for
sectors in which audits are overdue on other projects should not be submitted for Board approval.
The Bank should discontinue the practice of allowing audit qualifications in Kenya to be addressed
in the subsequent year's audit. Finally, it is questionable whether new disbursements systems that
reduce the amount of financial oversight by the Bank, such as LACI, are appropriate for countries
with a history of financial management problems such as those experienced in this project.
(v)  Realistic, proper Bank supervision is essential to a project's progress. Project ratings should be
realistic and based on actual results rather than expectations or promises. The experience of this
project affirms the relationship between intensified supervision and implementation progress.
(vi) Donor coordination should be maintained throughout project implementation, particularly with
regard to procurement planning, policy, common implementation constraints, and project
restructuring. This should include a diligent effort on the part of the Borrower to coordinate IDA-
financed goods and services and those provided by other donors, thus ensuring an efficient,
prioritized response to the country's needs. There must also be sufficient communication and
consultation within the relevant Ministry regarding the goods and services to be procured.
(vii) Large investments in training for central level staff do little to accomplish project development
objectives if the vast majority of trained staff are lost through attrition. Future training programs
should be much more limited and prioritized, with both staff and courses selected through a
rational, transparent process. Counterpart funding should be required to ensure rational use of
training funds, and measures should be taken by the benefiting agency to retain staff.
(viii) Before unfinished activities are transferred from a closing project to another project, the problems
that prevented the activities from being completed in the first place should be addressed. At a
minimum, such a transfer should be contingent upon a commitment from the Borrower to complete
the activities, even if use of the Borrower's own resources would be required.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2110-KE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.    Since 1979 Kenya has experienced dramatic improvement in fertility-related indicators. The
Total Fertility Rate (TFR) has decreased from 7.9 to 4.7 children per woman, and the Population Growth
Rate has declined from 3.6 to 2.6 percent. In addition, the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) among
married women has increased from 7 to 39 percent (31 percent for modern methods). However, given
the resources availed through the four IDA-financed projects, the Kenyan population program could have
achieved greater impact. Socio-economic factors undoubtedly played a role in the change in population
indicators. In addition, soaring AIDS mortality is impacting population projections and is likely playing a
role in household fertility/contraceptive decision-making and behavior. Alarmingly, most other health
indicators have significantly worsened since 1989, including a 46 percent increase in child mortality.'
2.    The Kenya Fourth Population Project (Population IV) was undertaken by the Government of
Kenya (GoK) to provide for needs not anticipated under the Third Population Project (Population III).
Population III (Cr. 1904-KE, 1988-1996) was a follow-up to two preceding population projects financed
by IDA. Population I (Cr. 468-KE, 1974-1979), with a credit of US$12 million, created the physical and
institutional base to provide family planning (FP) services in Kenya. Population II (Cr. 1238-KE, 1983-
1990), with a credit of US$23 million, aimed to create demand for FP services in rural areas and continue
reduction in morbidity and mortality. Population III (US$ 12.9 million) became effective based on
assumptions that prospects for fertility control in Kenya were bleak, and that fertility rates would remain
high due to opposition to family planning and widespread lack of interest in family planning. However,
the 1989 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey (KDHS) revealed surprising progress in population
indicators, thus also revealing challenges such as significant unmet demand for contraceptives. This,
combined with the shortfall of funding available from donors at the time, led the GoK and IDA to
develop Population IV, which became effective just two years after Population III, with a principal focus
on providing for the country's contraceptive needs and strengthening the infrastructure of the population
sector. The implementing agencies were the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the National Council for
Population and Development (NCPD) in the Ministry of Planning and National Development (MPND).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The objectives of the project were: (i) to increase the availability, accessibility, and quality of
family planning services provided by the Government and non-government organizations (NGOs); (ii) to
further strengthen the demand for FP services through expansion of Information Education and
Communication (IEC) programs to additional government ministries and NGOs; and (iii) to further
Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 1998 Preliminary Report. National Council for Population and
Development, MPND; Central Bureau of Statistics, MPND; and Macro International. September, 1998.



PARTI: Implementation Assessment                                             Page 2 of 12
strengthen the capacity of NCPD to plan and monitor the expanding national population program.
4.    The objectives were to be fulfilled through the implementation of the following activities:
(a)  Increasing  Availability  and  Accessibility  of Contraceptives  (US$13.8  million):
(i) Contraceptive Supplies. Provision of vaginal spermicides and injectable contraceptives to
supplement contraceptives supplied by donors; (ii) Norplant. Introduction of Norplant (a
subdermal implant) as a method of contraception in the population program through provision
of training, technical assistance and supplies; (iii) Logistics System for Contraceptives.
Strengthening of the existing MOH logistics system to provide contraceptives for MOH
facilities through upgrading of warehousing, provision of vehicles, technical assistance and
training; and (iv) Surveillance of Clinical Contraception. Establishment of systems to monitor
the side effects of clinical contraception through technical assistance, training, and monitoring.
(b)  Promotion of Family Planning Services (US$9.0 million): (i) Ministry of Health.
Construction and equipping of 6 voluntary surgical contraception units (VSCUs) in Nairobi;
equipment for provision of FP services in 300 health facilities; (ii) Introduction of Surgical
Contraception Services through the Private Sector. Provision of equipment and supplies,
qualified personnel and renting of facilities for a private clinic inNyeri to introduce surgical
contraceptive services; (iii) Income Generation Activities for Women's and Men's Groups.
Introduction of income generating activities, FP, IEC and contraceptive distribution to
women's and men's groups through provision of technical assistance, training and development
of small scale projects; (iv) Family Planning, IEC and Services through NGOs: Family
Planning Association of Kenya (FPAK). Development of IEC programs in Western and Coast
provinces; Kenya Catholic Secretariat (KCS): Upgrading of 40 clinics to provide integrated
Maternal and Child Health (MCH) and natural FP services; development of IEC programs in
Western province; Seventh Day Adventists (SDA): Upgrading of 10 clinics to provide MCHIFP
services, construction and equipping of two VSCUs in Nyanza; Crescent Medical Aid Society
of Kenya (CMASK):  Expansion of MCH/FP services in 8 peri-urban areas of Nairobi,
upgrading and equipping of one VSCU and for the development of IEC programs in those
areas; Northeastern Province: Development of IEC programs in Northeastern Province.
(c)  Strengthening the National Council for Population and Development (US$12.5 million):
(i) NCPD Headquarters. Construction and equipping of a national headquarters building for
NCPD and FPAK; (ii) District Focus: Establishment and construction of 14 additional District
Population Offices, including office equipment, furniture, vehicles, technical assistance and
training; (iii) Long-term Manpower Development: Development of a manpower development
plan for NCPD staff, and for a coordination of staff development and training activities
throughout the population program; and (iv) IEC Activities: Development of a national IEC
strategy and implementation plan, including mass media activities.
(d)  Research (US$1.5 million): (i) Research on reproduction through the Institute of Primate
Research; (ii) a feasibility study for the local manufacture of injectable and oral contraceptives;
and (iii) technical assistance, supplies and research costs for operations research including
evaluation of the first phase of the district population program and KAP studies.
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives: The objectives were responsive to the emerging needs in
Kenya's population sector. However, the large civil works component to build Voluntary Surgical
Contraceptive Units is questionable, given the demand for this type of service. Undue attention was
2



PART I Implementation Assessment                                               Page 3 of 12
given to central level institutional development compared to support for health service delivery points,
and the lack of district focus limited the potential impact of the project. Furthermore, while the project
development objectives should not have proven to be overly-ambitious, given the history of GoK-Bank
collaboration in this sector, they proved to be out of reach largely due to capacity and financial
management constraints which were not identified as risks in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.     Overall Objectives: Despite the improvement in fertility indicators and the fact that many of the
specific targets established in the SAR were met even earlier than planned, the project did not achieve its
objectives. This is explained not by a lack of progress in the population sector, but rather by the project's
failure to significantly contribute to that progress. While a case can be made that the cumulative
investments under the first three population projects continue to yield returns, the incremental impact of
this project was small. Population I-III provided a framework that could have formed a strong foundation
for a well-designed, well-implemented project. However, with much of implementation and nearly two-
thirds of total disbursements taking place within the last year, the accomplishments to date in the
population sector, as measured by the 1998 KDHS, owe little to Population IV.
7.    The ICR for Population III cited the draft Population Policy as a noteworthy achievement of the
sector and a key factor in the sustainability of that project's investment in NCPD. This policy outlined a
multi-sectoral approach to population and recognized that successful implementation depended on the
effectiveness of the institutional framework. It clarified the role of NCPD and recommended it be
granted autonomy. Unfortunately, this Population Policy never passed Parliament due to the Family Life
Education issue and opposition to the distribution of contraceptives to youth. After negotiations between
NCPD and opponents of the Policy, changes have been agreed upon, and it is expected to be re-submitted
to Parliament in 1999. The Population III ICR also pointed to the DflD-financed Reproductive Health
Strategy, and its Population IV-financed implementation plan, as a positive institutional outcome of the
investments by IDA and donors. Dissemination of this strategy began in a series of Population IV-funded
zonal workshops, and its continued implementation is expected to complement the country's health sector
reform program and is now being implemented in the districts with UNFPA support.
8.    Specific Objectives:  The project had little success in achieving its specific development
objectives, though there is potential for additional impact to be realized through the recently-completed
country-wide distribution of pharmaceuticals and equipment procured at the end of the project, as well as
through the GoK-financed completion of some project activities.
9.    Increased Availability and Accessibility of Contraceptives. The project achieved only a small
part of this objective. A notable success is that, with co-financing from FINNIDA, the project financed
the introduction of Norplant as a contraceptive method. While Norplant has been available on a limited
basis thus far, the significant unmet demand should be addressed by a planned expansion in its
availability. An advanced logistics system was also developed, but as explained in para. 24, the project
played no role in this success. Furthermore, the envisioned clinical contraception surveillance system
was not established. Finally, while contraceptives became increasingly available and accessible during
the project life, as demonstrated by the CPR, very few project-financed contraceptives arrived in the
country until shortly before the closing date, thus making it impossible to attribute gains measured thus
far to the project. While the large amount of contraceptives procured in the final year will maintain the
current levels of supplies through the year 2000, the donors' history of supplying contraceptives when
this project failed to do so - resulting in very few stock-outs - suggests that these needs might possibly
3



PARTI: Implementation Assessment                                                 Page 4 of 12
have been met with grant funds had the project not procured these goods.
10.   Promotion of Family Planning Services: Progress towards this objective was disappointing. As
detailed, in para 21, less than half of the VSCUs were completed. The income generation activities were
never implemented, and neither were the IEC activities under NCPD. The effort to introduce surgical
contraceptive services through the private sector was successful in its limited support to a single facility.
Unfortunately, practically none of the planned NGO IEC and training activities were completed due to the
NGOs' difficulty in accessing project funds, and most project-financed NGO clinics were not completed.
Between the VSCUs and NGO clinics, civil works at 23 of 34 sites were left incomplete by the project.
11.    Strengthening the NCPD: There was no significant realization of this objective. The planned
civil works were cancelled at the Mid-Term Review, and no manpower plan was developed. While a
large amount of project funds were spent to train NCPD staff, attrition resulted in little capacity being
gained (see para. 27). A national IEC strategy was finally developed in 1996 with UNFPA funding.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
12.   Implementation progress was unsatisfactory throughout the project life, albeit with significant
improvement during the one-year extension. While many factors contributed to this unsatisfactory
experience, the major causes were (i) weak procurement capacity; (ii) weak financial management; and
(iii) a failure to address known implementation constraints, both during the design of the project and
again when unfinished activities from Population III were subsumed under this credit.
13.    Procurement: The impetus of the project from inception was to provide for the population
sector's needs in terms of contraceptives and contraceptive supplies, as well as civil works. Thus, the
success of the project hinged largely on successful procurement, and this was not accomplished until after
the original project lifespan was over. From the first year, when there were repeated problems with MOH
and NCPD not complying with IDA procurement procedures, weak procurement capacity in the
implementing units stymied implementation progress and increased costs.
14.    While some small procurements did proceed prior to the extension period, there was no major
procurement of contraceptives until after the original closing date - except for Norplant on a single
source basis and an emergency procurement of condoms for which IDA procurement guidelines were
waived. As under Population III, the final costs of goods were unreasonably high. While the contracts
were awarded at fair prices, the costs became inflated due to the long period of time required to clear the
goods into the country - a result of an inefficient Government clearing agent and slow payment processes
through MOH, Treasury, and Central Bank of Kenya. An independent procurement audit of this project
found that, while the Medical Stores Coordination Unit (MSCU) collected data that revealed significant
leakage of drugs from its stores, no action was taken.2 The finding that, in some cases, IDA procurement
guidelines had not been followed led the Bank to provide an IDF grant for Public Procurement and
Enhanced Capacity. In addition, it led to a separate audit of one of the project activities.3
2 The Third and Fourth Population Projects in Kenya were among several Bank projects for which a procurement
audit by SGS Government Programs, Inc. was commissioned by the World Bank Board of Directors in 1996.
Between 1996 and 1998, two audits were performed on the contract between Moi University, Kenya, and Johns
Hopkins University, USA, (one by the GoK Controller and Auditor General, and the other by an independent
auditing finn). These audits made no conclusive findings to support those of the SGS audit.
4



PART I: Implementation Assessment                                            Page 5 of 12
15.   Prior to the granting of a project extension, it was agreed during the February, 1997, supervision
mission that GTZ would be contracted as the procurement agent for all ongoing and future procurements.
The impact of this decision was an easing of the procurement bottleneck, as a detailed procurement plan
was developed and ten tenders (contraceptive supplies and medical equipment) were successfully floated,
with contracts awarded totaling US$16.6 million. In addition, GTZ managed the logistics and the
distribution of these goods, with planning support from the Family Planning Logistics Management
System (see para. 24). The contraceptives, contraceptive supplies, and medical equipment procured made
it possible for the project to close with its development objectives fulfilled to a greater degree.
16.   Disbursements and Financial Management: This project had no disbursements until a full year
after effectiveness due to GoK delay in fulfilling the conditions of disbursement. Subsequently,
disbursements proceeded so slowly that only 30 percent of the credit had been disbursed by the original
closing date of June 30, 1997. Due to the progress made possible by GTZ's involvement as procurement
agent, MOH's efforts to address the payment backlog, and intensified supervision by IDA, the one-year
extension resulted in disbursement of an additional 50 percent of credit proceeds. In addition to the lack
of procurement capacity, inordinate delay on the part of the GoK in processing payment applications
(PAs) was a significant factor in implementation delays. Though it remains a serious problem, the final
few months of implementation did benefit from some improvement in this regard: a PA Tracking
System--based on the one used in Treasury--was introduced in the Ministry of Health at the Bank's urging
in late 1997, accompanied by a reduction in the number of steps in the PA process. The average time
required for payment fell from 140 days to 50, still much greater than MOH's target of 30 days.
17.   In addition to the unnecessarily complicated payment process, financial management within the
Project was inadequate. Record-keeping was poor, and the implementing agencies relied on IDA to
monitor expenditures and commitments vis-a-vis the category allocations and total credit amount. The
GoK had difficulty processing payments under the credit within the four-month disbursements grace
period after project closing because planned expenditures had not been sufficiently provided for in the
budget and the necessary Authority to Incur Expenditures (AIEs) had not been obtained. The discovery
that three students sponsored by NCPD benefiting from project-financed training had submitted falsified
documents as a basis against which to be provided subsistence expenses, and delay by the GoK in
addressing this matter, led IDA to suspend disbursements from Part C of the project (Strengthening of
NCPD) for the final 8 months of implementation. While IDA and GoK agreed on steps to resolve the
issue, this was not accomplished until after the close of the disbursements grace period. IDA will
continue to follow up with the Ministry of Finance to ensure that the funds are repaid to IDA and that the
other agreed remedies are implemented.
18.   Audit Performance: Audit performance was quite poor. No audit report was submitted on time
during the life of the project, even though difficulties with previous projects had led IDA to provide in the
DCA for a relaxed deadline for submission of audits of nine months after the end of the fiscal year, rather
than the usual six months. Despite the fact that IDA had received neither overdue audit reports for the
Second Population Project for FY1987, FY1988, and FY1989 nor those for the Third Population Project
for FY1989 (the first year of that project), this project was approved by the Board in March, 1990. The
majority of all audits were qualified. Finally, unresolved audit qualifications dating back several years
and applying to MOH, MPND, and Ministry of Home Affairs and National Heritage indicate that US$1.3
million in withdrawals cannot be supported and should be refunded to IDA. Repayment of this amount
was requested in a letter from the Country Director on March 25, 1999.
19.   Government Contribution: At appraisal, the Office of the Vice President and the Ministry of
Finance gave assurances that Government counterpart funds would be made available as required, and-the
5



PART I: Implementation Assessment                                              Page 6 ofL2
SAR estimated the GoK contribution to total project costs would be US$4.1 million or 10 percent of total
project costs (Table 8). However, the required counterpart funds were frequently unavailable, and the
Govemment's inability to finance recurrent costs led to situations in which implementation was stymied
by the implementing agencies' inability to finance basic operating expenditures such as fuel for vehicles
to supervise activities in the field. IDA amended the Development Credit Agreement in November, 1997,
to allow for financing of incremental operational costs from the credit proceeds; however, this was a
short-term solution to facilitate implementation of the existing project. Successful implementation of
future projects will require a further rationalization of the GoK's portfolio of projects and a sufficient
counterpart funds requirement to indicate GoK commitment to project objectives.
20.    Civil Works:  While many of the civil works originally planned under this project--the
construction of a national headquarters for NCPD and 14 District Population Offices--were cancelled as
part of the restructuring following the mid-term review, works remaining unfinished from Population III
were transferred to Population IV upon that project's closing.  Thus, the 13 Voluntary Surgical
Contraceptive Units (9 carried over from Population III) and 21 project-financed NGO clinics comprised
the civil works under this project. In addition to mobilizing funds for emerging needs in the sector, the
need for NCPD to narrow its focus to its intended functions and the subsequently implied decrease in the
number of staff were the justifications for canceling the planned construction of NCPD headquarters.
The Mid-Term Review also expressed concern that, while district population officers required ongoing
support, the construction of permanent offices might send the wrong message, indicating
institutionalization rather than the need to innovate and discover responsive and adaptive roles.
21.    The completion status of the civil works under this project are as follows:
(a)  VSCUs: These works suffered severe delays over several years, mainly due to inordinate
delays in payment by the GoK. Less than half of these units were fully operational at the time
of the ICR mission, though all but one were 80-90 percent complete with work continuing,
financed by GoK. The last unit is less than 50 percent complete, and no work has been done
since the contractor abandoned site in 1996 due to non-payment. As has been noted with other
IDA-financed civil works in the sector, the performance of the Ministry of Public Works
(MOPW) in supervising these works was poor. GoK commitment to complete these works is
uncertain.
(b)  NGO Clinics: Four NGOs [Family Planning Association of Kenya (FPAK), Crescent Medical
Aid Society of Kenya (CMASK), Kenya Catholic Secretariat (KCS), and Seventh Day
Adventist Church (SDA)] received financing through NCPD and this credit for completion of
civil works. These works also suffered due to inordinately late payments by GoK, causing
severe financial hardship and legal difficulties for the NGOs. Only FPAK managed to
complete their works under the project. The CMASK works are expected to be completed in
early 1999, though the facility will be unable to open until financing can be mobilized to equip
the facility. It is expected that SDA resources will prove sufficient to complete their facilities.
Of the 9 facilities under construction for KCS, less than half are completed and operational.
KCS informed the ICR mission that prospects for completion of the remaining sites were poor.
22.    While a considerable amount of progress was made during the one-year extension period (none
of the works was complete by the original closing date), the fact that most of the works were not
completed is one of the most disappointing aspects of this project. Especially given that it is unclear to
what degree the completed works contributed toward fulfillment of the project's development objectives,
the costs of civil works under this project vis-t?-vis the benefits cannot be justified.
6



PARTI: Implementation Assessment                                             Page 7 of 12
23.   Supply of Contraceptives: The 1989 KDHS revealed a high, unmet demand for contraceptives
at a time when there was a shortfall of donor funds to supply these contraceptives. Therefore, one of the
main purposes of the project was to provide for the majority of the country's contraceptive needs
throughout implementation. The only contraceptives supplied by the project prior to the hiring of GTZ as
a procurement agent were Norplant (procured on a single source basis) and an emergency procurement of
condoms, for which IDA procurement guidelines were waived. During the last year of the project, 5
tenders for contraceptives and contraceptive supplies totaling $8.64 million were floated and successfully
awarded Though some stock-outs did occur, donors stepped in to fill the gaps left by procurement
problems in IDA projects (Population III was being implemented concurrently). Most contraceptives
were procured on an ad hoc and often emergency basis by whichever donor had funds available, and the
large procurements undertaken by the project in its final year have revealed a need for IDA-financed
supplies to be better coordinated by the MOH with those provided by other donors.
24.   The project design included support, along with parallel financing from USAID, for logistics.
Ultimately, no funds from the project were used for this purpose due to the impressive progress of the
USAID-assisted Family Planning Logistics Management System (FPLMS). This is a cutting-edge
logistics management system that has been effectively distributing contraceptive supplies to districts since
1991, and it now has the capacity to forecast the country's needs versus expected supplies, facilitating
MOH's procurement planning.  The FPLMS maximizes routing efficiency, provides up-to-date
information on stocks, and has reduced the amount of time required to process and ship deliveries
through the MSCU from 7-10 days to l/2 day. While the sustainability of this system once USAID
support ends in 2000 is uncertain, DflD has been financing the use of the same system for STI drugs.
25.   NCPD: Most of the activities planned to be undertaken by NCPD were not implemented. In
addition to the cancellation of the civil works, the manpower development plan was not done. Among the
research financed by the project was an assessment of the staffing needs of NCPD, but the next step of
developing the plan was not completed. The planned IEC activities were contingent on the development
of an IEC strategy, a condition of disbursement for this credit. Though the condition of disbursement was
lifted after delaying implementation for approximately a year, the strategy was not actually finalized until
1996 (financed by UNFPA). No project-financed IEC activities were undertaken by NCPD.
26.   As detailed in the Population III ICR, NCPD's effectiveness had been undermined by its low
profile relative to the mainstream of national development policy and its problematic relationship with its
then-parent ministry, the Ministry of Home Affairs and National Heritage. NCPD's role had become
unclear, as it strayed from policy-making to undertake implementation. Its impact was improved after the
Mid-Term Review, when it was transferred to the Ministry of Planning and National Development,
received a larger budget allocation, and had its role as a program and policy consultative body clarified.
27.   Training: This project financed a massive amount of training under Part C of the Project
(Strengthening of NCPD). Though the SAR estimated only US$ 0.3 million would be spent on overseas
training, most of the training expenditures were for overseas degree programs. Individual training was
sponsored for 48 NCPD staff, with nearly 80 percent of these attending 1-4 year overseas degree
programs. By the close of the project, 7 of these individuals (15 percent) remained in the employment of
NCPD. Another 6 (13 percent) were again on extended study leave, despite the fact that most had already
been sponsored for 3-4 year degree programs under the project. While the trained staff are undoubtedly
of benefit to the country as a whole, the minimal retention of the staff by NCPD--mostly trained overseas
at high cost--means that there was little positive impact in terms of the desired institution building within
that agency. The selection process was neither transparent nor organized around the institution's needs,
and it largely focused on central level staff. Thus, the selection of both individuals for training and-the
7



PART I Implementation Assessment                                             Page 8 of 12
courses to be attended should be more objective; and transparency, accountability, and traceability with
regard to Bank-financed training needs to be improved. Redress should be required of employees who
benefit from training and subsequently leave the agency before a minimum period of time has elapsed.
28.   Project Restructuring and Extension of Closing Date: The project restructuring subsequent to
the Mid-Term Review was both appropriate and responsive to the situation within Kenya's population
sector; however, it did not address the major factors hindering implementation. The allocation of Credit
proceeds to civil works was reduced more than 70 percent, with some smaller reductions in other
categories, thus enabling the allocation to goods and equipment to be increased by more than 110 percent
to support increased emphasis on service delivery and ensuring adequate supplies of commodities. The
extension of the closing date for an additional year did contribute to significantly greater achievement of
the project development objectives than would have otherwise been the case, largely due to the progress
in civil works and the successful procurement of goods totaling nearly 50 percent of the total credit.
Without this extension, the project outcome would have been highly unsatisfactory. While the intensified
collaboration between the Borrower and the Bank did result in impressive achievements during the
extension period, confusion and uncertainty over whether the project would be extended caused some
stagnation in the planning and implementation of activities in the months leading up to the extension.
However, the Borrower's delayed submission of overdue audit reports (a condition of the extension)
prevented the extension from being granted until just a few days before the closing date.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
29.   Factors Beyond the Government's Control: The major factor which lay outside GoK control
and negatively affected the project was an economic downturn since 1992/93 which led to high inflation
and a depreciation of the Kenyan shilling, resulting in cost variations, as well as constraining counterpart
funds. In addition, the difficulties of some NGOs in mobilizing the required community contribution
contributed to delays in the NGO-administered works. Finally, Bank supervision lacked diligence in
addressing implementation problems and in transferring unfinished activities from Population III to this
project without addressing the issues behind the implementation delays.
30.   Factors Under the Government's Control: Factors that contributed to delays that were within
GoK control included (i) inordinately slow processing of payment applications; (ii) liquidity problems
resulting from the slow release of funds from Treasury, (iii) lack of ministerial counterpart funds; (iv)
slow clearance by the GoK Clearing Agent of exempted items through the Ports Authority that resulted in
lengthy delays and additional costs; and (v) poor performance of MOPW in supervising civil works.
31.   Factors Under the Implementing Agency's Control: Finally, implementation of this project
was hindered by the following factors which were under the control of MOH and/or NCPD: (i) poor
procurement planning and generally weak donor coordination; (ii) though slow payments were partially
attributable to Ministry of Finance, the MOH's own processes and inefficiencies were responsible for the
larger share of delays; (iii) non-compliance and/or slow compliance with IDA procurement guidelines,
with the implementing agencies demonstrating a weak commitment to address procurement capacity
constraints; (iv) delays in fully adopting use of the Special Account; and (v) weak financial management.
8



PART I: Implementation Assessment                                            Page 9 of 12
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.   Project sustainability is unlikely. The supply of contraceptives is wholly donor financed, with
needs projected to double over the next 15 years. The exclusive, and poorly-managed, involvement of
the public sector in supplying contraceptives has undermined development of private commercial supply,
though the recent exponential growth in condom sales through commercial firms and social marketing
schemes suggests the potential exists. With uncertain plans for the completion of a majority of the civil
works, and no preventive maintenance plans for the limited number of facilities that were completed, the
prospects for sustainability of the project's investment in these works is unlikely. The only significant
incremental impact of this project on NCPD was the massive training program, and attrition has already
resulted in that investment not being sustained. However, the project's contribution towards the National
Reproductive Health Strategy (i.e. the project-financed implementation plan and zonal workshops) is
likely to be sustained, given that implementation of this strategy in the districts is now underway.
BORROWER PERFORMANC6E
33.   Borrower performance at preparation was unsatisfactory. The project was prepared in response
to emerging needs in a collaborative fashion with IDA and donors. However, the failure to establish
mechanisms to address longstanding problems with regard to financial management, civil works
supervision, and procurement condemned the project to failure. Overall, Borrower performance during
Implementation was highly unsatisfactory. Though some progress was made in streamlining the MOH
payment procedure, there was a lack of commitment to ensuring proper financial management and
accountability.  The lack of supervision of civil works, by MOPW, MOH, and NCPD, and the
unwillingness of the GoK to satisfactorily address the issue most responsible for delays in civil works
(e.g. unreasonably slow payment procedures) were the main causes of so many works being left
incomplete. Finally, while MOH cooperation with GTZ in procurement during the final year was
impressive, its management of procurement during the previous years was poor, and its commitment to
developing its own capacity under the capacity-building component of the contract with GTZ was weak.
BANK PERFORMANCE
34.   Bank performance at Identification was unsatisfactory. While a project concept resulted which
was both consistent with the strategies of GoK and the Bank and highly responsive to a dynamic situation
in Kenya's population sector, the decision to develop a project to be implemented concurrently with an
existing project, instead of restructuring the existing project, doubled the administrative burden, led to
projected annual disbursements beyond the financial and administrative capacity of the Borrower, and
over-stretched the implementation capacity of the Borrower. The performance of the Bank during
preparation was also unsatisfactory. The failure to incorporate measures to address issues which had
emerged in previous projects in the sector proved to be a serious oversight, and the flaws in project
design have been detailed in para. 5. Given that the Bank failed to address problems that had emerged in
earlier projects regarding financial management, procurement capacity, and administrative capacity, and
also failed to identify the critical risk these issues posed to the project, Bank performance at Appraisal
was deficient. Bank procurement and disbursement staff should have been more involved at appraisal.
In addition, the assumption that the GoK could move effectively into this particularly difficult area of
procurement after years of dependency on donors, who did their own procurement to avoid the
weaknesses of GoK in this area, should have been questioned.
9



PARTI: Implementation Assessment                                                Page 10 ofl2
35.    Bank performance during supervision was also deficient. If not for the significant improvement.
during the one-year extension period, as evidenced in increased Borrower satisfaction and improvements
in implementation (see Borrower Evaluation Report, Appendix C), the performance of the Bank would be
rated highly unsatisfactory. From the start, supervision missions failed to acknowledge the seriousness of
implementation problems. The first supervision mission rated the project "1" (highly satisfactory) in all
areas, though this was inconsistent with the aide-memoire which showed less than one percent of the
planned funds had been included in the budget and no preparation for effectiveness on the part of NCPD
and NGOs. Subsequently, all supervision reports until late 1994 included ratings of only "1" and "2"
(satisfactory) for implementation, despite worsening problems reflected in aide-memoires and severe
disbursement lags. Ratings for the development objectives were based solely on the achievement of the
objectives within the Kenyan population sector, without regard to the project's contribution to these
accomplishments. Further, ratings and decisions regarding the continued implementation of this project
were consistently based on expectations rather than demonstrated performance. The shortcomings
extended beyond the task team -- from disregarding Bank guidelines in sending the project to the board in
spite of overdue audits in the sector to looking the other way when a series of supervision reports
indicated serious problems, regional management was complicit in the Bank's failures.
36.    A noteworthy deficiency with regard to the Bank's fiduciary responsibilities relates to the case of
fraud described in para. 17, in which the Bank both contributed to the initial problem and was deficient in
addressing the matter once it was uncovered.4  As was also noted in the ICR for the Kenya Health
Rehabilitation Project, the Bank made poor decisions in giving "no objection" to award contracts for civil
works when there was insufficient time to complete the works. Despite extremely poor progress on civil
works across the project and a history of problematic works under the Population III and Health
Rehabilitation projects -- both of which were implemented concurrently with Population IV and
supervised by the same task team, IDA gave "no objection" to proceed with 10 new NGO (SDA) clinics
for which the tendering process started in February, 1996. The schedule allowed only 3 months between
the planned completion date and the original project closing date of June 30, 1997. These were among
the works left incomplete at project closing. Furthermore, despite unsatisfactory progress on the first
phase of the NGO clinics for KCS, the larger Phase II (also now incomplete) was allowed to proceed
even though the start of work had been delayed from June, 1995, and the works were only at the tender
stage in February, 1996.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.    The project's outcome was unsatisfactory, with the improved performance of both the Borrower
and the Bank in the final year ameliorating the highly unsatisfactory outcome that would have resulted
had the project closed on the original closing date. The primary purpose of the project had been to
provide for the population sector's needs in terms of contraceptive supplies and civil works, so the failure
to procure contraceptives until the final year and the fact that most of the civil works were left incomplete
4Early in the project, the original Bank Task Manager for the project sent NCPD a letter indicating that the
organization was requesting inadequate amounts of subsistence for training candidates and suggested an
amount to be used in the future which far exceeded the estimates of the training institutions. When a
subsequent Task Manager, unaware of these instructions, questioned the amount of claims, the fraudulent
documentation was provided rather than the earlier instructions from the Bank. Further, due to confusion
surrounding another subsequent change in task teams, most of the remaining funds from this category were re-
allocated to other purposes shortly before the suspension of disbursements was effected.
10



PARTI: ImplementationAssessment                                               Page 11 of 12
clearly indicate an unsatisfactory outcome. While the large training program intended to support the
strengthening of NCPD was implemented, the failure of NCPD to retain the staff after this costly
investment also contributes to the unsatisfactory outcome. However, the concentration of expenditures at
the end of the project makes it impossible to evaluate the impact of those expenditures at this time.
Finally, as is evident in the Borrower Evaluation Report (Appendix C), the Borrower's assessment of
project outcome was significantly more positive. This can, at least in part, be attributed to the Borrower's
tendency to treat IDA funds as grants, thus giving little weight to cost or waste in evaluating the outcome.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.   The results of the 1998 KDHS demonstrate that the contraceptive and reproductive health needs
of Kenya are rapidly growing at a time when GoK resources are contracting. Current provision for these
needs is wholly financed by donors, and a need for increased donor coordination is evident. While it is
expected that such coordination will emerge from the joint efforts of donors and the Government in the
development of the country's health sector reform program, a focus on reproductive health should be an
integral element in future IDA support to the sector. Such support should not only focus on providing for
the country's growing contraceptive needs, as Population IV sought to do, but should also attempt the
following: (i) to more closely integrate reproductive health strategies and activities under the Division of
Family Health with STI/AIDS strategies and activities under the National AIDS/STD Control Program;
and (ii) to invest in interventions, such as the reform of MSCU, that will increase the sustainability of the
reproductive health program, and (iii) facilitate decentralization and capacity-building at the level of
health service delivery points.  Future operations will need to target the reproductive health of
adolescents, as this is the only group for which the 1998 KDHS shows fertility has not decreased. The
fact that the obstetric experience of this group also significantly contributes to overall maternal mortality
in Kenya further demonstrates a continued lack of access to reproductive health services by adolescents.
The KDHS also shows that geographic disparities have not diminished; therefore, future operations
should also have a stronger focus on poverty.
39.    Given the experience of this project and other recent projects in the sector, IDA would be
negligent to not attach the following preconditions to any future IDA support to Kenya's health sector:
(i) the introduction of a streamlined payment procedure and increased accountability measures in the
payment system; (ii) the contracting of an independent procurement agent for all IDA-financed
procurement; and (iii) the enactment of measures to improve accounting and record-keeping. In addition,
recent allegations of corruption surrounding the Ministry's procurement practices increase concerns that
IDA and other donors are being asked to channel funds into a sector from which significant funds are
being drained through corruption. Thus, prior to directing any future support to the health sector, IDA
and donors should require the contracting of an independent procurement agent for all Ministry
procurement, particularly given that procurement is not a core function of the Ministry.
40.   The future role of NCPD is unclear; and its viability in the absence of project support, uncertain.
Thus, the GoK should be encouraged to clarify its plans for the future role of this agency. The GoK
should also be strongly encouraged to complete at least those unfinished civil works under its direct
control (the VSCUs). Given that the GoK reaffirmed its commitment to these works twice in recent years
- first in 1996 when requesting that they be transferred to Population IV from the closed Population III
project and again in 1997 when requesting this project be extended in order to allow their completion--the
completion of the VSCU facilities (except for the one site which is less than 50 percent complete) should
be a condition of appraisal of the next IDA credit to the health sector.
11



PARTP ImplementationAssessment                                                   Page 12 of 12
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.    Numerous key lessons can be drawn from the experience of this project. It is worth noting the
similarity and overlap between these and the lessons extracted in the ICR for Population III.
(i)   When previous projects have shown weaknesses in areas of financial management and accounting,
administrative capacity, procurement capacity, and/or project monitoring, new projects should not
be approved until these weaknesses have been addressed.
(ii)  Where appropriate, the use of an independent procurement agent should be considered at appraisal,
particularly for the procurement of items such as contraceptives and STI drugs which require a high
degree of technical expertise, comprehensive logistics capacity, and forecasting capacity.
(iii) Through Population III and Population IV, the construction of facilities under IDA financing has
not contributed significantly to the achievement of project objectives, and has generally proven to
be a wasteful and inefficient use of scarce resources. No civil works should be undertaken in future
IDA-financed health sector operations until sufficient measures are enacted to prevent yet another
repeat of this outcome. Such measures should include avoiding the involvement of the Ministry of
Public Works, whose performance in supervision of works has been consistently unsatisfactory.
(iv)  It is important that the Bank place greater emphasis on proper financial management. Projects for
sectors in which audits are overdue on other projects should not be submitted for Board approval.
The Bank should discontinue the practice of allowing audit qualifications in Kenya to be addressed
in the subsequent year's audit. Finally, it is questionable whether new disbursements systems that
reduce the amount of financial oversight by the Bank, such as LACI, are appropriate for countries
with a history of financial management problems such as those experienced in this project.
(v)  Realistic, proper Bank supervision is essential to a project's progress. Project ratings should be
realistic and based on actual results rather than expectations or promises. The experience of this
project affirms the relationship between intensified supervision and implementation progress.
(vi)  Donor coordination should be maintained throughout project implementation, particularly with
regard to procurement planning, policy, common implementation constraints, and project
restructuring. This should include a diligent effort on the part of the Borrower to coordinate IDA-
financed goods and services and those provided by other donors, thus ensuring an efficient,
prioritized response to the country's needs. There must also be sufficient communication and
consultation within the relevant Ministry regarding the goods and services to be procured.
(vii) Large investments in training for central level staff do little to accomplish project development
objectives if the vast majority of trained staff are lost through attrition. Future training programs
should be much more limited and prioritized, with both staff and courses selected through a
rational, transparent process. Counterpart funding should be required to ensure rational use of
training funds, and measures should be taken by the benefiting agency to retain staff.
(viii) Before unfinished activities are transferred from a closed project to another project, the problems
that prevented the activities from being completed in the first place should be addressed. At a
minimum, such a transfer should be contingent upon a commitment from the Borrower to complete
the activities, even if use of the Borrower's own resources would be required.
12



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FOURTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2110-KE)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives        __ _
macro policies                                                                X
sector policies                                                X
financial objectives         L_       L                 __ _ __               X
institutional development                                      X
physical objectives                             X
poverty reduction                                                             X
gender issues                                                  X
other social objectives                                        X
environmental objectives                                                      X
B. Project sustainability                          X
private ~  ~     ~      sacor sectoren development  X
C. Bank performance                                         _               _    _ _
identification                                                 X
preparation assistance                                         X
appraisal                                                      X
supervision                                                    x
D. Borrower performance
preparation                                                    X
implementation                                                                X
covenant compliance                                            X
operation                                                      X
E. Assessment of outcome                                          X
13



PART I: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Past Operations
1. First Population Project   The project objective was to significantly reduce the    1974  Closed
(US$ 12.0 million)      population growth rate.
2. Second Population Project The project objectives were to (i) reduce fertility, and (ii)    1983  Closed
(US$ 23.0 million)     improve accessibility and quality of rural health services..
Parallel Operations
1. Third Population Project  The project objectives were to: (i) strengthen capacity of    1988  Closed June,
(US$ 12.9 million)     the National Council for Population and Development;               1996
(US$ 1.9 million)  (ii) create demand for Family Planning services through
IEC activities; and (iii) increase the availability,
accessibility, and quality of Family Planning services.
2. Health Rehabilitation   The project objectives were:  (i) support the GoK's    1991    Closed June,
Project                 program of health sector reform by (a) rehabilitating              1998
(US$ 3 1.0 million)    Kenyatta National Hospital; (b) improving health service
delivery in the Nairobi area; and (c) preparing for future
policy, managerial, and investment reform in health; and
(ii) to support the development of a National Household
Welfare Monitoring System.
Following Operations
1. Sexually Transmitted    The project objectives are to: (i)  strengthen the    1995      On-Going
Infections Project      institutional capacity at the national and district levels to    Closing
design, implement, monitor and evaluate interventions;          December,
(US$ 40.0 million)      (ii) promote preventive measures to reduce the risks of            2000
STI transmission; and (iii) enhance both health sector
and community provision of physical and psychological
care and develop strategies to mitigate the socio-
economic consequences of STI/HIV.
Planned Operations
1. Health Sector Reform    An APL which will support the Govemment of Kenya in  Planned,
Project                 implementing its Health Sector Reform Program which    2000
focuses on (i) equitable allocation of government
resources; (ii) increased cost effectiveness of resource
allocation; (iv) continued management of population
growth; (iv) enhanced regulatory role of he government;
(v) increased private sector and community involvement
in the health sector; and (vi) increased and diversified per
capita flows to the health sector.
14



PARTIP Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identification                                                     1988
Preparation                           April, 1989               April, 1989
Appraisal                            October, 1989             October, 1989
Negotiations                         February, 1990            February, 1990
Board Presentation                     May, 1990               March 27, 1990
Signing                                May, 1990               May 21, 1990
Effectiveness                       August 20, 1990          September 25, 1990
Mid-Term Review                     December, 1992              August, 1993
Project Completion                 December31, 1996            June 30, 1998
Loan Closing                         June 30, 1997             June 30, 1998
15



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS, ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
SAR Estimates                     Actual              Actual Cumulative as
Yr/Quarter    Quarterly   CumuL            Quarterly        CumuL             % of Credit
(US$ millions)                (US$ millions)
FY1991   Ql       0.50        0.50           0.00           0.00                 0.0%
Q2      0.50        1.00           0.00           0.00                 0.0%
Q3      0.50        1.50           0.00           0.00                 0.0%
Q4      0.50        2.00           0.00           0.00                 0.0%
FY1992  Ql        0.69        2.69           0.55           0.55                 1.6%
Q2      0.69        3.38           2.50           3.05                 8.7%
Q3      0.98        4.36           0.33           3.30                 9.4%
Q4      0.98        5.34           0.67           4.05                11.6%
FY1993   Ql       1.17        6.51           0.28           4.33                12.4%
Q2      1.17        7.68           0.43           4.76                13.6%
Q3      1.32        9.00           0.00           4.76                13.6%
Q4      1.32       10.32           0.24           5.00                14.3%
FY1994  Q1        1.62        11.94          0.13           5.13                 14.7%
Q2      1.62       13.56           0.04           5.17                14.8%
Q3      1.49       15.05           0.02           5.19                14.8%
Q4      1.49       16.54           0.00           5.19                14.8%
FY1995  Q1        2.15        18.69          0.00           5.19                 14.8%
Q2      2.15       20.84           0.53           5.72                16.3%
Q3      1.57       22.41           0.00           5.72                16.3%
Q4      1.57       23.98           0.00           5.72                16.3%
FY1996  Q1        1.56       25.54           0.79           6.51                 18.6%
Q2      1.56       27.10           1.10           7.61                21.7%
Q3      1.41       28.51           0.24           7.85                22.4%
Q4      1.41       29.92           0.45           8.30                23.7%
FY1997  Q1        1.41       31.33            1.13          9.43                26.9%
Q2      1.41       32.74           0.25           9.68                27.7%
Q3      1.13       33.87           0.28           9.96                28.5%
Q4      1.13       35.00           0.66           10.62               30.3%
FY1998   Ql                                  0.41           11.03               31.5%
Q2                                 0.09           11.12               31.8%
Q3                                 0.00           11.12               31.8%
Q4                                 5.48           16.60               47.4%
FY1999  Q1                                   8.84           25.44               72.7%
Q2                                 4.80           28.88               82.5%
16



PARTF i: Statistical Annexes
SAR Estimates and Actual Disbursements
40
035
co25
:3~~~~~~~~~3A
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2M                           Actual|
10
Quarters
17



PART 11: StatisficalAnnexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Increasing Availability and Accessibility of Contraceptives
I.  Provision of Vaginal Tablets and Injectable   Year of         7              2       Not procured until last year of project
Contraceptives                                    Supply
2. Introduction and Provision of Norplant           Y/N          Yes            Yes       Successfully introduced and supplied throughout project.
3. Strengthening of Logistics System                Y/N          Yes            No       No project funds used. Wholly financed by USAID
4.    Establishment  of  Clinical  Contraception    Y/N          Yes            No       Not implemented.
Surveillance System                                                                                                               -             -
B. Promotion of Family Planning Services
1. Begin Construction and equipping of 6 VSCUs   VSCU             6              4       Only 4 additional VSCUs undertaken
2. Completion and equipping of 9 VSCUs from Pop.  VSCU            13             6        Six completed. One is partially operational. Five are 80-90% complete.
III project, Completion and equipping of Pop. IV                                         And one was abandoned at less than 50% completion. Equipment has been
VSCUs                                                                                     procured for the facilities.
3. Equipment for 300 MOH health facilities           %           100%          100%       Procured in final year of project
4. Introduction of Surgical Contraceptive Services    Y/N        Yes            Yes       Successfully introduced
through Private Sector
5. Introduction of Income Generating Activities for    Y/N       Yes            No        Canceled at time of project extension.
Women's and Men's Groups
6. Construction of 21 NGO clinics through 4 NGOS   Clinic         21             5        Remaining were incomplete at project closing.
7. Financing of IEC and Training Activities through  Y/N         Yes            No        Practically none implemented due to NGOs' difficulty in accessing project
NGOs                                                                                      funds.
C. Strengthening NCPD
1. Construction of NCPD National Headquarters      Y/N           Yes            No       Cancelled at Mid-Term Review
2. Construction of 14 DPO Offices                  Office         14             0        Cancelled at Mid-Term Review
3. Development of Manpower Development Plan         YIN          Yes            No       Not completed.
4. Implementation of IEC Activities                 Y/N           Yes           No        Not implemented
D. Research
1. Research on Reproduction through IPR             Y/N          Yes            Yes
2.  Feasibility study for  local manufacture of    Y/N           Yes            Yes
injectable contraceptives
3. Various TA as per SAR                            YIN          Yes            Yes
Note: No performance indicators were provided in the StaffAppraisal Report. These indicators have been developed from the staff appraisal report.
18



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Increasing Availability and Accessibility of Contraceptives
1. Supply of Contraceptives           Donors providing goods        Unsustainable situation, leakage  (i) Reform of MSCU
and wastage from MSCU
2. Introduction of Norplant            Availability  being  expanded  Sustainability of supply.
country-wide.
Promotion of Family Planning Servces
1. Construction of 13 VSCUs            Work at most incomplete sites  7 facilities are incomplete. GoK  Completion of works.
continuing with GoK funding  commitment to  complete  is
uncertain.
2. Equipping of VSCUs and other facilities  Goods being distributed at time  Possible need for training on  None.
of ICR mission               proper use.  Need for proper
maintenance.
3. Construction of NGO Clinics         NGOs attempting to mobilize  Most  sites  are  incomplete. None by GoK. NGOs to attempt
resources to complete works.  Mixed prospects for completion.  to mobilize needed funds.
4. Preparation of Implementation Plans for Implementation in districts with  Need  for  integration  with  To be addressed under Health
Reproductive Health Strategy           funding from UNFPA            STlIAIDS Strategy.            Sector Reform Program.
Strengtening of NCPD
1. Training Program                    None.                         Most of the trained staff have  None.
l_____________________________ _  0been  lost through  attrition.
Note: Indicators were not provided in the SAR or in the President's reports. The above indicators have been developed from the SAR-
19



PART IP: StatisticalAnnexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 7: STUDIES CONDUCTED
'S'''''''''H'"'''''''''R''""('"'''."."''.'';."                     "'**>.'    X ^.           '~''>v     t ' '        L ''6
Research Agenda                                             Dr. J. Kekovole       Completed           Basis for Research Agenda of the Population
Program
National Population Program Prospects for Sustainability    K.K. Consulting       Completed           Basis for future planning of Population
Associates                                Program and NCPD.
Assessment of Manpower Needs for the Population Program     P.M. Nkikwe           Completed            Laid groundwork for uncompleted
Manpower Development Plan for NCPD
Re-Evaluation of Population Policy Implementation at the District Prof. John Oucho  Completed         Used in planning social marketing schemes
Level                                                                                                  currently under implementation and
development.
Evaluation of Chania VSC Project                            Dr. Kimani            Completed            Basis for planning of further extension of
Murungaru                                 VSC services to private sector.
Evaluation of Safe Motherhood Component of Family Health  David Ojakaa            Completed            Benefit planning of future MCH programs.
Foundation of Kenya
Evaluation of Fertility Regulation Methods                  Prof. Richard Mwangi  Completed            Contributed to Population Program research.
(IPR)
Manual of Molecular Biology Protocols and Evaluation of the  Rashid Aman (IPR)    Completed            Contributed to Population Program research.
Molecular Biology Research Programs on Reproduction by IPR
Photochemistry Study on Neem Oil and Khat                   Prof. Richard Mwangi  Completed            Contributed to Population Program research.
(IPR)
Immunological Responses, Mode of Action and Delivery Systems on  Prof. Emmanuel 0.  Completed          Contributed to Population Program research.
Male Reproduction                                           Wango (IPR)
20



PART I1: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS - STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL EXPENDITURES
(US $ Millions)
Appraisal Estimates                           Actual
Expenditure Category          Local    Foreign        Total          Local       Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs       Costs           Costs       Costs        Costs
1. Civil Works                      1.0         7.9         8.9            0.3         2.2          2.5
2. Goods, Equipment, Supplies       0.7        17.4         18.7           3.6         21.1         24.7
and Vehicles
3. Consultant's Services,                       5.8         5.8                         5.6         5.6
Research, and Training
4. Incremental Operational          2.4                     2.4            0.2          0.1         0.3
Costs
Total Project Cost                  4.1        31.1        35.8            4.1         28.6         33.1
Source: Government of Kenya/Ministry of Health
Notes: USAID expenditures were unavailable
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 9: PROJECT FINANCING
(US $ Millions)
IDA                      |        35.0         |28.9l
FINNIDA                  |         0.0         |1.0l
USAID                    |         2.2         |N/Al
Government of Kenya   |            4.1         |3.2l
TOTAL                   l        41.3                   33.1l
Source: SAR and Ministry of Health
Note: Expenditure Data from USAID was not available.
21



PARTII: Statistical Annexes                                                                                          Table I0: Status of Legal Covenants
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Article III Para. 3.04  Preparation of a comprehensive IEC strategy and plan of  5,10,12       CD         9/5/90      5/31/97   Draft strategy submitted for comment in June
action.                                                                                                  1992;work plan  submitted  for 1993/94.
Strategy finalized in 1996.
Article IV Para. 4 01  Submission of audited accounts to IDA not later than nine   I            CD          N/A         N/A      Audits were submitted for every year, but
months after the end of the financial year.                                                              with delay.
Article IV Para. 6.01  As condition of credit effectiveness: (a) submission of an  5            CD          N/A         N/A      (a) Submitted October 1990; (b) Appointed
organization structure for MOI{s Division of Family                                                      under USAID/JSI FPLM  Project, October
Health and a plan of action for its implementation;                                                      1990.
Schedule I Para. 3 (b)    As a condition of disbursement: (b) for the district focus  10,12      C          N/A         N/A    (a) Evaluation for Phase I conducted in
component, an evaluation of the first phase of the district                                              08/91; Implementation for Phase 2 submitted
population program, and agreement on the changes needed                                                  in 09/92.
for the next phase; action plan for the Istyr; (c) for the
IEC component, a national IEC strategy and
implementation plan.                                                          _
Schedule 4 Para. 2     Modification  of the  Pop. 111 Project Coordinating       5,12            C          N/A         N/A      Submitted under Executive Committee of
Committee for implementation of Pop. IV; the committee                                                   NCPD Council; met regularly.
to meet each quarter.
Schedule 4 Para. 3     By March 31 each year submission of draft annual work     5,3,9          CD       03/31/1995              Complied with delay.
plans and budgetary allocations.                                                                                .
Schedule 4 Para. 4     Not later than December 31, 1992, a mid-term review.       9             CD       12/31/1992     8/93     Carried out in August 1993.
Schedule 4 Para. 6     NCPD to make funds available to women's groups as          3             NC          N/A         N/A      Activity was cancelled at time of extension
grants.                                                                                                  in 1997.
Art III Para. 3.03     By June 30, 1991 submission of research proposals for      10             C       06/30/1991     N/A      Submitted annually.
Institute of Primate Research for IDA.
Schedule I Para 3 (c)  As a condition of disbursement: (c) For the women's       10,12          NC          1990        N/A      Activity was cancelled at time of extension
income generation component, submit an implementation                                                    in 1997
plan for the first year.
22



PARTII: Statistical Annexes                                                                                                   Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Schedule I Para 3(d)  As a condition of disbursement: (d) For the IEC        10,12         CD          1990        1996    A draft IEC strategy was prepared, and the
component, a national IEC strategy and implementation                                                condition was lifted.  The national IEC
plan.                                                  .                                             strategy was not completed until 1996
Covenant types:                                                                                            Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                                  8 = Indigenous people                                 C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue                    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting                 CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries                     10 = Project Implementation not covered              CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                 by categories 1-10                               NC = Not Complied
4 = Counterpart funding                              11= Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary
5 = Management aspects of the                             or other resource allocation
Project or executing agency                       12 = Sectoral of cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                               regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement                          13 = Other
23



PARTII. StatisticalAnnexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 1 1: COMPLLANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
OD 10.60          Paras. 26-27 of OD 10.60 state tliat, as a minimw, financial reports should normally comprise a
Accounting,       statement of receipts and payments, as well as total project costs and sources of financing, and that the
Financial         supporting schedules of statements should disclose annual and supplemental budget allotments, actual
Reporting, and    expenditures under each budget category for which Bank financing is furnished, and the actual
Auditing          expenditures and amounts of Bank disbursements claimed. In short, financial reporting should cover
all accounts pertaining to project expenditures, irrespective of sources of financing.
OD 13.10
Borrower          Audits were submitted for all years, though they were always delayed (submitted after the due date).
Compliance        Separate audit reports were submitted for the Special Account and for SOEs.
with Audit
Covenants
OP 6.30           The Bank usually expects the Borrower to demonstrate commitment to the project by making a 10%
Local Cost        minimum contribution to project cost (net of taxes and duties).
Financing and
Cost Sharing      The Borrower's contribution totaled 9.7%   percent of total project cost versus the estimated
contribution of 10% projected at appraisal.
OD 13.30          The Bank may approve for selected disbursements covering only part of a project to permit (a)
Extension of      implementation of some mutually agreed, high priority contracts; (b) the extension of the validity of
closing dates     letters of credit covered by a special commitment or (c) provision for retention payments, when the
conditions for release (e.g. completion of performance tests or expiration of a warranty period) are
met after the closing date.
The Bank extended the closing date by one year and allowed an additional 4 months after the project
closing date for disbursements retention payments for a number of civil works contracts and
procurement contracts.
01)13.55          The borrower prepares and makes available to the Bank its own evaluation on the project's execution
and initial operation, cost and benefits, the Bank's and borrower's performance of their respective
ICR preparation    obligations under the loan agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the loan were achieved,
adopts a plan for the operational phase of the project and assists the Bank in ICR preparation.
The Ministry of Health and NCPD prepared an evaluation of the project's achievements (the summary
of the report is attached to the ICR) and participated in the ICR preparation with the Bank team.
24



PART I: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: ACTUAL STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project   Weeks   US$ 000's    Weeks   US$ 000's   Weeks   US$ 000's
cycle
Preparation    to     N/P         N/P         N/P         N/P        26.6        53.6
appraisal
Appraisal             N/P         N/P         N/P         N/P         16.9       35.0
Negotiations          N/P         N/P         N/P         N/P         8.4         19.2
through    Board
Approval
Supervisionl         134.1       273.8       176.9       313.8       187.0       309.6
Completion            17.0        20.0        18.7        21.5        15.9        18.7
TOTAL                 N/P         N/P         N/P         N/P        254.8       436.1
Source:    FACT Cost Report run on February 10, 1999
I Assumes FY1986-FY1995 actual expenditures were equal to planned (and revised planned). The World Bank
Information System did not retain the "planned" figures for those years.
25



PARTII StatisticalAnnexes                                                                                                           Table 13: BankResources: Mtfissions
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Identificatio         1988I1                           Aid-Meoir missing fro   files/archivesl~
oy'J Pr             ot                 T."u
Identification              1988                             Aide-Memoire missing from files/archives
Preparation                4/1989                            Aide-Memoire missing from files/archives
Appraisal                  10/1989                           Aide-Memoire missing from files/archives
Supervision                10/1990        3           1 2    Population  Specialist, Architect, IEC        1             I       Insufficient budgetary allocation from GoK.. Delay
Specialist                                                         in meeting conditions of disbursement.   Little
preparation by NCPD and NGOs for project
effectiveness.
3/91         3           8       Public  Health  Specialist,  Population      i             I        Failure of Borrower to comply with IDA procurement
Specialist, Architect.                                             procedures.
9/91         3           11      Public  Health  Specialist,  Population      2             1        Failure of Borrower to comply with IDA procurement
Specialist, Architect.                                              procedures.  Slow operating procedures in NCPD.
Late audits.
1/92         2           I      Public  Health  Specialist,  Population      2              1       IEC workplan not prepared.  Procurement delays.
Specialist                                                         Delayed disbursements to NGOs.
2/93         4           11      Population    Specialist,    Operations,     2             1        Insufficient GoK budget allocation. Slow reporting
Architect, Public Health Specialist                                 by NCPD. Slow implementation. Inability ofNGOs t
access funds.
Mid-Term Review            8/1993         10          18     Public Health Specialist, Operations, IEC     2             1        Unsatisfactory compliance with legal covenants.
Specialist,    Population   Specialist,                            Delays  in  release  of  funds  and  payments.
Architect, Donor representatives                                   Procurement delays. Implementation delays.
Supervision                 3/94          4           10     Public Health Specialist, Operations, IEC    2              1       Slow disbursements. Delays in NGO activities.
Specialist, Donor representative.
9/94         4           11      Public Health Specialist, Family Planning    U            HS        Delays in finalizing IEC Strategy. Delays in release
Specialist, Population Specialist                                  of commodities from Port of Entry. No progress on
implementation of income generating activities.
Procurement delays.
2/95         3           19      Public Health Specialist, Operations        U             HS        Disbursement delays. Civil Works delays. Delays in
disbursements to NGOs.
26



PARTI: StatisticalAnnexes                                                                                                           Table 13: BankResources: Missions
10/95         7          12      Operations,  Public   Health   Specialist,   U             S        Delay in selection of procurement ag ent. Failure to
donorrepresentatives.                                               comply with oDA procurement guidelines. Overdue
audits. Insuf'ficient GoK budget allocation. Little
progress on IEC, income generating activities, and
wprocurement.  Civil works delays due to slow
payment by Treasury
2/96         4     __.           Operations, Architect, Public  Health   . ...                      .............. Major  procurement  problems.  Delays  in
Specialist.                           ................ development of IEC strategy.  Delays in NCPD
workplan.
9/96         6           18     Operations,    Architect,    Financial        U             S        Overdue audits. Delayed civil works.
Management, Procurement
2/97         7           17      Operations, Accountant, Architect, HD        U             S        Funding gap unless project extended.  Possible
Economist, Health Specialist, Economist                             misuse of funds under Moi-Hopkins contract. Civil
works delays.
6/97         3           7      HD Economists, Operations                     U             U        Extension issues.
9/97         9           15      Public  Health  Specialist,  Economist,      U             U        Civil Works delays. Outstanding audits. Suspension
Operations, Architect                                               of disbursements due to suspected fraud in NCPD
training component.
2/98         4           19      Public  Health  Specialist,  Operations,     U             U        Civil works delays. Outstanding audit qualifications.
,-________  ___________             Architect,                                                          Suspension of disbursements.
Completion                  12/98          4          8       Operations,   Procurement,   Financial       U             U        Unfinished civil works. Poor financial management
Management                                                          and slow  payment process.   Outstanding audit
qualifications.  Inability to process some final
disbursements.
27



PARTII. Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 14: TRENDS IN USE OF FAMILY PLANNING METHODS
"Co~~~~fraeepti~~~~~~~01 Me.o                     ..93.......
Any Method                              26.9%              32.7%              39.0%
Modern Method                           17.9%              27.3%              31.4%
Pill                               5.2%                9.5%               8.5%
IUD                                3.7%               4.2%                2.7%
Injection                          3.3%                7.2%              11.8%
Diaphragn/foam/jelly               0.4%               0.1%                0.0%
Condom                             0.5%               0.8%                1.3%
Female Sterilization               4.7%               5.5%                6.1%
Male Sterilization                 0.0%                0.0%               0.0%
Any Traditional Method                  9.0%                5.5%               7.5%
Periodic Abstinence                7.5%               4.4%                 6.1
Withdrawal                         0.2%                0.4%               0.6%
Other traditional methods          1.3%               0.6%                0.9%
Source: 1998 KDHS
Note: Sample includes currently married women ages 15-49
28



PART II Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
TABLE 15: SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR MODERN CONTRACEPTIVE METHODS (%)
Public                 52.8   66.7    64.0       51.6      21.2        64.1        58.0
Govt. Hospital      18.0   46.2    24.5       47.1      5.9         56.3       29.5
Govt. Health Center  19.7   16.3    21.3      4.1       6.7         5.3         16.1
Govt. Dispensary    15.1   4.2     18.3       0.4       8.7         2.4         12.3
Private Medical        30.0   32.6    35.0       47.3      24.8        35.9        33.4
Mission, Church     3.8    3.3      9.6       13.7       1.5        15.5        8.1
Hospital/Center
FPAK Health         3.6    7.4      2.4       13.2      7.6         6.4         4.5
Center/Clinic
Other Private       0.9    0.5      0.5       0.0       0.4         1.5         0.8
Service
PrivateHospitaU     9.1   17.2    19.2        16.8       2.3        10.8        13.7
Clinic
Pharmacy            8.8    0.0      0.1       0.0       13.0        0.0         3.2
Private Doctor      4.2    4.0      3.2       3.6       0.0         1.7         3.0
Other Private Service    5.3    0.0    0.3        0.0      46.3         0.0        4.5
Shop                1.7    0.0      0.0       0.0       33.2        0.0         2.6
Friends/Relatives   3.6    0.0      0.3       0.0       13.1        0.0         1.9
Mobile Clinic           0.4    0.2     0.4        1.1       1.5         0.0         0.4
CBD Worker             10.9   0.6      0.2        0.0       3.9         0.0        3.4
Other                   0.4    0.0     0.0        0.0       2.0         0.0        0.2
Don't Know/Missing     0.2    0.0      0.2        0.0       0.3         0.0         0.2
TOTAL                  100.0  100.0   100.0      100.0     100.0       100.0       100.0
Source: 1998 KDHS
Note: Percent distribution of current users of modem contraceptive methods by source of method, according to specific
methods, Kenya 1998; CBD=-Community Based Distribution
29



PART I1: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
FIGURE 1: TOTAL FERTILITY RATE AND CONTRACEPTIVE PREVALENCE RATE (1979-1998)
45
40 -
3       15111    gTotal Fertility
30 -                                        Rate (children
25 -                                        per woman)
20 -                                      MContraceptive
15 -                                        Prevalance Rate
10                                          (%)
5
0
1979    1989    1993    1998
Year
Kenya
Fourth Population Project
FIGURE 2: CHILD HEALTH INDICATORS IN KENYA (1979-1998)
120- _     -_    _        _       _      -
O 100 - _      _    _         U1 Infant Mortality
C)
&80 -Rt
* Child (1-5)
. 60_                           Mortality Rate
Cx 40   X T i _ T | _ T |_ 20 Under 5 Mortality
0) 20    -_                          _  _ _
1979 1989 1993 1998
Year
30



Kenya
Fourth Population Project
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
December 2-9, 1998
1.    A World Bank mission visited Kenya from December 2-9, 1998, for the purpose of preparing the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Kenya Fourth Population Project (Cr. 2110-KE), which
closed on June 30, 1998, after a one-year extension. The mission comprised Andrew  Follmer (mission
leader, AFTH1), Wacuka Ikua (AFMKE), John Ogallo (AFMKE), Dahir Warsame (AFMKE), and Dick
Coppinger (Civil Works Consultant). The mission was postponed from its previously-scheduled dates to
allow the Ministry of Health to focus on the addressing the needs arising from the August 7 bomb crisis in
Nairobi and due to a change in team leadership by IDA.
2.    The mission would like to express its appreciation to the representatives of the Ministry of Health,
National Council for Population and Development, Ministry of Finance, the Famnily Planning Logistics
Management Unit, and the GTZ Procurement Management Unit who worked with the Bank during the
mission, and the months leading up to the mission, to review the implementation of the project. In addition,
representative from DflD, SIDA, FINNIDA, UNFPA, and The European Union participated in the
m-ission. FINNIDA provided co-financing for the project. USAID provided parallel financing for the
project, but was unable to participate in the mission; the Agency's comments on the draft ICR will be
solicted. Finally, the mission would like to thank the following NGOs who received financing through the
Credit and who made representatives available to meet with the mission: Family Planning Association of
Kenya, Crescent Medical Aid, Kenya Catholic Secretariat, and the Institute for Primate Research. Most of
the discussions during the mission are reflected in the Implementation Completion report.
Borrower Contribution
3.    The degree of preparation for this mission by the Government of Kenya and NCPD was
impressive. A comprehensive draft Borrower Evaluation report had been prepared prior to the mission's
arrival, and this report provided a solid basis for discussion. The final Borrower Evaluation Report, of
which a 10 page Executive Summary will be attached to the ICR, will be submitted to the Bank by
December 23, 1998. The Borrower will also submit to IDA formal comments on the draft ICR, which will
be sent by IDA no later than February 15, 1999. The Borrower will submit comments to IDA by March 1,
1999.
Procurement
4.    A procurement review is being conducted of the project by IDA. This review is expected to be
completed by mid-January. As found by earlier missions, the performance of GTZ as procurement agent
has been highly satisfactory and has resulted in a significant number of tenders being completed during the
project's final year. These procurements comprised the majority of disbursements during the final year,
which totalled approximately 50% of the total credit.
Disbursements
5.    The disbursements grace period for this project end October 30, 1998, and the final
disbursement applications were still being processed by the Bank at the time of the mission.
Currently, approximately 16% of the credit is undisbursed. In addition, a thorough Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) review is underway and is expected to be completed by mid-January.
31



ApDendix A                                                      Completion Mission Aide Memoire
Outstanding Audits
6.     There are currently no outstanding audits for this project. It was agreed that the Ministry of
Health and Ministry of Planning and Development shall seek to address all audit qualifications from
the most recent audits by Janary 30, 1999. All SOEs shall be made available for review by IDA by
December 15, 1998. The mission reminded the Government that 1997/98 audits for this project are
due March 31, 1999.
Development Objectives
7.    The rnission notes that the one-year extension of the project granted by IDA resulted in
significantly greater fulfillment of the development objectives than would have been the case had the project
closed as originally planned on June 30, 1997. A thorough discussion of the Achievement of Objectives,
and an Assessment of Outcome, is included in the draft ICR.
Unfinished Civil Works
8.     The mission is disappointed to note that many of the civil works financed under this project
remain incomplete, and some have little prospect of completion. These works comprise Voluntary
Surgical Contraceptive Units (VSCUs) and NGO Clinics:
a.     VSCUs: Of the 13 VSCUs under the Ministry of Health financed through this credit, 9
were started under the Third Population Project and transferred to this Credit when that project
closed in 1996. All of these works suffered severe delays, mainly due to inordinate delays in
payment by the Government of Kenya. Six of these 13 units are now completed and operational,
with a seventh that is partially operational. Of the remaining 6 units, 5 are 80-90% complete, with
work continuing, financed through the Government of Kenya's own resources. The last unit is less
than 50% complete and no work has been done since the contractor abandoned site more than 2
years ago due to non-payment by the Government. After a long delay, the contractor was
subsequently paid, but has since refused to return to site despite a commitment to do so. The draft
ICR will recommend that completion of these units be a condition of future IDA lending to the
Health Sector in Kenya.
b.    NGO Clinics: Four NGOs (Famnily Planning Association of Kenya, Crescent Medical Aid,
Kenya Catholic Secretariat, and Seventh Day Adventist Church) received financing through the
NCPD and this credit for the completion of Civil Works. These works also suffered major delays
due to inordinately late payments by the Government of Kenya, causing severe financial hardship
and legal difficulties for the NGOs involved. Only one, FPAK, managed to complete their works
under the project. The CMA works are expected to be completed by December 31, 1998, though
the facility will be unable to open until the necessary equipment can be procured (this has not
begun, and no financing has yet been made available for this procurement). The SDA works are
approximately 85% complete. Though SDA was not available to provide the mission with details
on the plan for completion, it is expected that the organization will be able to mobilize sufficient
resources to complete the facilities. Of the 9 facilities under construction for Kenya Catholic
Secretariat, 4 are completed and operational. Two of the remaining units are 90% complete, and
the other 3 sites were abandoned due to late payment with works approximately 60% complete.
Current information from KCS indicates that prospects for completion of any of these 5 sites are
poor.
32



Appendix A                                                    Completion Mission Aide Memoire
Contraceptives and Contraceptive Supplies
9.    The mission attended a presentation by Mr. John Wilson, the USAID-financed Logistics Advisor in
the Family Planning Logistics Management Unit. While the SAR envisioned that support for logistics
would be jointly supported through the IDA Credit and the parallel financing made available from USAID,
this activity was wholly financed through USAID parallel financing. This activity has achieved and
surpassed the project objectives.
10.   Though the project was intended to provide for most of the country's contraceptive needs during its
lifetime, it provided for a very limnited percentage of these needs until its final year. Though a couple of
stock-outs did result, the mission found that when the project failed to meet supply needs, donors
consistently stepped in to finance replenishment of the country's supplies.
11.   The FPLM's logistics system provides excellent forecasting capability and is "multi-donor"
friendly, so the GoK has precise forecasts of future needs. Current supplies of all contraceptives are
expected to last 2-3 years. In the long-term, there are serious issues regarding sustainability, given that the
supply of contraceptives is currently 100% donor financed, with substantial unmet demand and a need that
is expected to double in the next 15 years.
12.   The discussion of contraceptives with donors revealed a need for increased coordination among
donors and the World Bank-financed projects in MOH with regards to the quantity and timing of
contraceptive procurement. The Division of Primary Health agreed to take the lead within the Ministry
toward achieving the required level of coordination.
Financial Management
13.   It was agreed that Financial Management under this project was inadequate. Particular areas of
concern were (i) poor functioning and inordinate delays in the unnecessarily complicated payment system;
(ii) poor record keeping and accounting within the project with the effect that documentation was often not
available for review by IDA and the Ministry relies on IDA to track commitments and ensure that
categories/credits are not overdrawn; and (iii) poor audit performance and timely submission of audits. It
was agreed that the need for TA to assist the Ministry with implementation of satisfactory financial
management practices would be a topic of discussion among the Health Sector Reform Donor Coordination
Group. Such TA would focus on systems strengthening and the implementation of practices recommended
by previous reviews of the system. Further, it was agreed that such TA would be appropriately placed in
the Ministry given that the majority of delays in payments, etc. are attributable to the Ministry's system
rather than the Treasury.
Reproductive Health Strategy
14.   Subsequent to the development of the Reproductive Health Strategy in 1996 (financed by UNFPA),
the project financed development of the Implementation Plan. Various delays resulted in no implementation
being able to be financed through the credit, and workshops with district personnel were conducted shortly
prior to project closing. The MoH is currently working with Districts to finalize their plans for
implementation in a manner consistent with the country's Health Sector Reform Program. UNFPA has
made some funds available for implementation of these plans, and discussions are planned to be held with
other donors in which they are given the opportunity to pledge support directly to districts and, hopefully,
provide support directly to those districts.
33



Appendix A                                                     Completion Mission Aide Memoire
Conclusion
15.   For reasons which have been covered in the aide-memoire and which will be covered in greater
detail in the ICR, the outcome of this project will be rated unsatisfactory. However, it is worth noting that
the final year did bring impressive improvement. While this improvement was mostly due to the
introduction of the GTZ procurement agent-resulting in major procurements of contraceptives,
contraceptive supplies, and medical equipment under a project in which no major procurement had
previously succeeded-the additional year also resulted in the completion of some additional civil works.
The frank discussions during the mission, the forward-looking orientation of these discussions, and the
constructive dialogue on how to avoid repeating the problems of this project in future projects provide a
positive indication that both the GoK and the Bank have extracted lessons from the review of this project.
Action                         By Whom              Date
Discussion of Financial Management TA for MOH at   HSR Donor         Next meeting
next meeting of Health Sector Reform Donor         Coordination
Coordination Group                                    Group
All SOEs to be made available to IDA for review    MOHINCPD          Dec. 15, 1998
Final Borrower Evaluation Report to IDA            MOH/NCPD          Dec. 23, 1998
(as of Jan. 6, 1999: not received)
Borrower to address all outstanding audit qualifications    MOH/NCPD  Jan. 30, 1999
Draft ICR to Borrower                                 IDA            Feb. 15,1999
Borrower Comments on Draft ICR submitted to IDA    MOHI/NCPD         Mar. 1, 1999
1997/98 Audits due to IDA                          MOHINCPD         Mar. 31, 1999
34



Kenya
Fourth Population Project
Appendix B: Civil Works Report (October, 1998)
I.    Voluntary Surgical Contraceptive Units.
II.    NGO Clinics
A.    Crescent Medical Aid
B.    Family Planning Association of Kenya
C.    Kenya Catholic Secretariat
D.    Seventh Day Adventist Church
I. VOLUNTARY SURGICAL CONTRACEPTIVE UNITS.
Completion Status.   The completion status can be summarized as follows: (i) 3 units are physically
complete and operational; (ii) 1 unit was recently completed and will shortly be operational; (iii) 3 units are
80 - 90% complete and are currently being worked on; (iv) 3 units have been substantially complete for
some time but are not yet operational; (v) one unit is 70% complete and work is currently stalled; and (vi)
one unit is less than 50% and work abandoned.
Considering that all the above projects with the exception of one were initiated in the early 90s the
completion status is extremely disappointing. Although the progress over the last two years has been poor
by any standards the effect of decentralizing the administration and project management responsibilities to
the districts has been positive. At the time of preparing the report, completion work had recently restarted
at 3 sites, but this restart followed a period of several years when the situation was dormant.
Design of Units. The design, layout and location of the units is considered to be appropriate and when
operational they will generally enhance the existing hospital facilities.
Quality of Workmanship. The quality of workmanship and materials used on the units visited was
generally found to be acceptable. The deficiencies noted were generally of a minor nature. Although the
above defects are minor it was disturbing to note the lack of attention paid to the correction of these
defects. These problems should be addressed by ensuring that the original contractors remedy their
construction defects in accordance with their contracts and that once the units are in operation the Hospital
have the resources to implement their own preventive maintenance.
Implementation and Project Management. The reason for the overall failure of the VSCU works
program can be attributed to poor project management, institutional procedures and payment delays. The
management structure is cumbersome and involves an unnecessary large numbers of organizations: the
Ministry of Health, Division of Family Health, Ministry of Public Works, Consultants, Contractors and the
local District Hospitals. This management structure together with changing personnel within the various
organizations has resulted in a dilution of responsibilities and a consequent lack of interest in the project.
The genuine efforts made in the last few years by the Division of Family Health have been frustrated by the
cumbersome procedures involved in dealing with such a large and bureaucratic management teamn. During
the supervision missions the MOPW were not able to provide accurate up to date infornation on the
contractual, financial and physical status of the various units. The level of supervision at site level
provided by the MOPW Nairobi has been minimal. Similarly the role of the Consultants engaged at the
early stages of the project is questionable and evidence of their impact is not visible. An improvement was
noted when the completion and the construction of units were handled at District level. The effect of-this
decentralization has been that the local administration have a greater responsibility for and control over the
35



AppendixB                                                                Civil Works Report
project and are therefore now motivated to see the Project through to a successful conclusion.
Financial Aspects. It was not possible to get clear information from either MoH or MOPW regarding the
financial status. In most cases the estimated final contract sum considerably exceeds the original contract
value and does not take into account all Contractors Claims, The MoH has not completed the formalities
on the final accounts on any of the units, even on those that are complete and operational. Throughout the
project has been effected by delays in payment. To some extent the problem was alleviated in recent years
when the project management was decentralized and payment was made at district level. This system has
however also failed at 2 sites where funds have not been available at District level and payment has had to
be made in Nairobi.
Impact and Sustainability. Generally the units would have a positive impact on health services at the
District Hospitals where they are located. The extent to which they will be used for contraceptive
operations is questionable. In all the units visited the number of these operations currently being performed
is mininmal. The units are all located within the District Hospitals, most of which have existing theatres
which will be phased out when the new ones are ready. The hospitals should therefore have the resources
necessary to operate and maintain the units effectively.
-I. NGO CLINICS
A.    CRESCENT MEDICAL AID KENYA: MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH CENTRE,
PANGANI NAIROBI.
Completion Status. The building is approximately 85% complete.
Construction Period. The official contract period of 6 months commenced on 27th May 1996. The
original completion date was 27th November 1996 and therefore the project is currently almost 2 years
behind schedule and not yet complete. The reasons for the delay are as follows: (i) the evaluation of the
tenders by the original architect was poorly done and the contractor chosen was not capable of executing
the contract; (ii) the original contractor did not perform and has subsequently been terminated--arbitration
procedures are currently in progress; (iii) the original architect performed poorly and has had to be
changed. The original designs have been altered and this has caused delays to the Project. The project has
suffered from severe cash flow problems as a result of payment delays. In order to keep the work going,
the Client (Crescent Medical Aid) have had to intervene and make supplementary payments from their own
resources. Work is currently in progress and completion time is now dependent on the continued
disbursement of funds. It was estimated at the time of the ICR mission that the construction phase of the
project could be completed by the end of 1998.
Design of the Unit. The original design of the unit was not suitable and the original architect had to be
decommissioned. The final design of the unit however is satisfactory and it will fulfill its function.
Quality of Workmanship. The quality of workmanship and materials used on the project are both
acceptable.
Implementation and Project Management. The original architect was not competent and the design was
not suitable. The project therefore got off to a poor start. The problems were compounded by long
payment delays and the selection of an unsuitable contractor. When the project started to falter CMA
changed the Project Management assigning this duty to the original Quantity Surveyors. The original
architects were decommissioned and the contract with the original contractor was termiinated.  The
36



Appendix B                                                               Civil Works Report
subsequent project management has been more effective but the initial problems of poor design, disputes
with the original contractor and payment delays have continued to have an adverse effect on the project.
Financial Aspects. Of the cost overrun of Shs 2.2 M which represents 18% of the original contract value
the World Bank has issued a No Objection for an additional Shs 1.6 M. The balance of the cost overrun of
0.6 M is made up from claims due to delayed payments.
Impact and Sustainability.   The new unit has been constructed adjacent to an existing unit being
operated very effectively by Crescent Medical Aid. When the new unit is completed, furnished and fully
equipped it is likely to have a very positive effect on health services in the area. With the combined
resources of NCPD and Crescent Medical Aid the sustainability of the unit should be assured.
B.    FAMILY PLANNING ASSOCIATION OF KENYA: MODEL CLINIC AND TRAINING
CENTRE.
Completion Status. The building is fully complete and has been built to a high standard. All services are
connected and the building is operational. The building has been furnished by FPAK and equipment was
received in September 1998. FPAK anticipates that the complete unit will be fully operational by 1st
January 1999.
Construction Period. Delays were experienced due to the fact that no site investigation was done prior to
the commencement of construction and it was necessary to amend the foundation design.
Design of the Unit. The unit has been well designed and is considered appropriate and suitable for the
function it is intended to fulfill. It is conveniently located to serve the surrounding population and is
situated adjacent to a main arterial road.
Quality of Workmanship. All work has been executed to a high standard.
Implementation and Project Management. The project has been generally well managed and the
implementation has proceeded smoothly. The technical support throughout the project has been adequate.
The only criticism that can be leveled at the project consultants is the fact that a site investigation was not
done prior to the start of construction. At the commencement of construction it was discovered that the
actual foundation conditions were different from those originally assumed. This necessitated a change in
the foundation design which resulted in increased costs (Shs 1.2 Million) and a delay in the implementation
program.
Financial Aspects.    Variations during the course of the contract were issued totalling Kshs 5,447,873
(approx 14% of the contract value). The variations issued are considered reasonable on a contract of this
nature and the World Bank has given a No Objection for Kshs 5.0 Million.
Impact and Sustainability. The unit is well designed, well built and fully furnished and equipped. The
unit will be fully operational by 1st January 1999. It is well placed to have a very positive impact and an
assessment should be made after 1 year of operation. It is unlikely that maintenance of the facility should
be a problem.
C.    KENYA CATHOLIC SECRETARIAT.
Completion Status.   The completion status can be summarised as follows:  (i) 4 of 9 units are
physically complete and operational; (ii) 2 Units are approximately 90% complete but not yet operational;
and (iii) 3 units have been abandoned at approximnately 60% completion. The units that are 90% complete
37



Appendix B                                                                  Civil Works Report
are likely to be completed very slowly by the local communities. The units that are abandoned are unlikely
ever to be completed. In the last few months 2 communities have started to try and complete their units.
Other than these there have been no developments on the project over the last 2 years.
Design of Units. All the units are of a relatively simple design and are considered appropriate for the
functions they are intended to fulfill.
Quality of Workmanship. The workmanship and quality of materials used on the sites was generally
satisfactory.
Implementation and Project Management. A competent Consultant was engaged by NCPD to manage
the project. The project has not succeeded due to the severe payment delays on all the projects and in some
cases the failure of the community to participate and make their financial contribution.
Financial Aspects. The main reason for the failures in this project have been the paymnent delays. A
breakdown is attached from which it can be seen that the payment delays are excessive, this is
representative of the delays experienced by the other NGOs. Not one payment was paid within the
contractually stipulated 45 days, and in numerous cases the payment delays on individual certificates
exceeded the entire contract period. On small contracts of this nature it is impossible for contractors to
perform under these conditions. Work at all units was scheduled for completion by June 1995 but due to
the delays in honoring payment certificates, work at some of them was abandoned in October 1995 while
others were completed 2 years later.
The contractors have lodged claims totaling Kshs 6.06 M for payment delays which are contractually
legitimate. Some of the contractors have notified their intention to take legal action against KCS to demand
their outstanding certified payments. The longer this situation persists, the bigger the claims become and
the more serious the consequences are for KCS.
Impact and Sustainability. The four units that are complete and operational are having a positive impact
on their local communities. Two additional units are likely to be completed and will have a positive impact.
Unfortunately it is unlikely that the other units will be completed.
Schedule ofActual Payments (the Contractual payment period was 45 days)
Unit        Certificate No.  Certificate Value  Certificate Date    Date Paid    Payment Delay
(days)
1. Kevote         1           603,600.00         2/2/95        22/6/95           96
2           201,129.60         713/95        25/9/95          158
3            55,388.15         1/9/95         18/1/96          94
2. Chuka          1           804,242.40         2/2/95        23/6/95           97
2           212,075.20         9/3/95        25/9/95           156
3           371,124.00         1/9/95         18/1/96          95
4           164,331.35        16/10/95        18/1/96          49
3. Riiji          1           739,486.40         2/2/95        23/6/95           97
2           387,013.60         8/3/95         14/7/95          83
3           351,441.85         1/9/95         18/1/96          95
4           177,804.70        16/10/95        18/1/96          49
38



Appendix B                                                                   Civil Works Report
Unit        Certificate No.  Certificate Value  Certificate Date    Date Paid    Payment Delay
___________   -______ _   (days)
4.                1            604,655.20         2/2/95         23/6/95          97
Kerugoya          2            99,432.90         10/4/95         4/9/95           102
3           152,437.70          1/9/95         18/1/96          94
4           652,415.75         16/10/95        18/1/96          49
5           114,308.15         26/2/96         16/9/96          159
6           380,877.10         28/5/96        19/11/96          131
7            103,827.45        27/6/97        29/10/97          90
5. Makueni        1            550,839.20        31/1/95         23/6/95          98
2            169,501.60        23/2/95        27/7/95           109
3           255,477.70          1/9/95         18/1/96          83
4           301,045.30         21/9/95         18/1/96          75
5           281,663.90         9/11/95         12/4/96          105
6           119,824.55          6/3/96         7/1/96           168
7           165,744.00         24/7/96        21/1/97           133
6. Bura           1            421,647.20        31/1/95         29/6/95          104
Taita             2            63,024.00         23/2/95         14/7/95          98
3            29,030.10          1/9/95         17/2/96          125
4            53,226.00         21/9/95         17/2/96          105
5            19,867.70         9/11/95         6/5/96           133
6           155,042.60         25/4/96        27/9/96           108
7           225,514.10         19/12/96       17/10/97          248
7.                1            479,632.00        3-1/1/95        29/6/95          104
Kikambala         2            129,781.60        23/2/95         14/7/95          98
3           256,609.50          1/9/95         17/2/96          125
4            43,121.50         21/9/95         17/2/96          105
5            19,867.70         13/5/96         6/5/96           133
6            155,042.60        25/4/96        27/9/96           108
7           225,514.10         19/12/96        7/10/97          248
8. Maralal        1           1,408,908.80        9/3/95         4/7/95            72
2           248,394.40         10/4/95         5/9/95           102
3           958,464.10          1/9/95         19/1/96          95
4           542,328.70         16/10/95        19/1/96          50
5           350,131.10        20/12/95         31/5/96          118
6           423,209.45         16/8/96         21/1/97          115
D.    SEVENTH DAY ADVENTIST CHURCH:  8 CLINICS, 2 VSCU THEATRES AND 2
STAFF HOUSES
Completion Status. Although none of the sites are fully complete the average completion status is
approximately 85%. At the time of the site visits two of the units were being worked on, and it is likely
that they will be fully complete before the end of November. Work at the other units is at a standstill
because of payment delays. The completion periods have all overrun by more than 18 months.
Design of Units. All the clinics and staff houses were well laid out and appropriately designed for their
respective locations. The layout of the 2 VSCU theatres was identical but the inclusion of shelving and a
sink/wash hand basin in the actual theatre was questionable. These items are an unnecessary source of
contamination and they may have to be removed before the theatres are operational. In all other respects
the theatre design is considered appropriate.
39



Appendix B                                                               Civil Works Report
Quality of Workmanship. The general quality of workmanship and materials used was good to
satisfactory. Minor defects were noted on door and window frames and plumbing fittings.
Implementation and Project Management. The SDA engaged a competent Consultant who has
managed the project satisfactorily. The fact that the Consultant was not officially approved by the World
Bank until very late in the project, and was therefore not paid, was the cause of some distress. Better
liaison between the NCPD and the World Bank could have resolved this problem at an earlier stage. The
initial stages of the project proceeded relatively smoothly although delays due to late payments hampered
progress. The later stages of the project have suffered due to the fact that SDA have not paid their local
contribution. The NCPD should have been more insistent in their demands to SDA to meet their
commitments in this regard. The NCPD were at fault for not making SDA and the Consultant aware of
the period required for payment procedures and all three contracts were signed with a specified payment
period of 14 days.
Financial Aspects. The original contract sums have been exceeded by a total of Kshs 1.8 M which
represents approximately 8% of the overall total of the original contract sums on the 3 contracts. These
variations are due almost entirely to omissions in the original Bill of Quantities. They are all legitimate.
Payment delays have been considerable and made worse by the fact that they are calculated on the basis
of a 90 day payment period when in fact the payment period stipulated in the contracts was only 14 days.
Payment delays of the magnitude experienced on this project have a devastating effect on small
contractors cash flow. The payment delays have meant that the project has not been completed to date
and also all the contractors have significant claims for the late payment. The World Bankhave refused to
fund these claims and it is unlikely that GoK will fund them. The claims are all legitimate under the
terms of the contracts and the longer they remain unattended to the larger they will become. Although the
SDA are committed in their Memorandum of Understanding to make a contribution of 20% of the
contract value this 20% portion to date has been paid possiblymisguidedly by GoK. Because this portion
has been paid by GoK, SDA have not made any financial contribution at all to the project to date.
Impact and Sustainability. It is considered that all units will ultimately be completed by SDA and that
they will have a positive impact on the local communities. The SDA have a very strong presence in the
areas where the clinics and VSCU theatres are being constructed they are capable of allocating the
necessary resources and operating the units to a good standard. The equipment for the units has already
arrived in Nairobi and is awaiting transportation to the units as soon as construction is complete.
40



Kenya
Fourth Population Project
Appendix C: Executive Summary of Borrower's Evaluation Report
Background: The Population IV Project was developed by the GOK and IDA in 1990 to run concurrently
and follow the Third Population Project which had started earlier. The main reasons for developing the
Population IV project was the realization that there were some gaps in Population III that had been
identified by KDHS I. It was realized that although the population program had made remarkable
achievements in terms of increasing CPR from 17% to 27%, the TFR from 7.7 to 6.7, family planning
knowledge to 86% and reduced the population growth rate from 3.8% to 3.3% in 1989, there was a serious
risk that further progress would be jeopardized by shortage of contraceptive supplies and weak demand in
the areas which were identified as having low contraceptive rates. There was also fear that unless new
incentives were introduced into the program, contraceptive use would reach a plateau of about 25-30% as
evidenced from Asian population programs. Kenya could therefore, not afford a break in contraceptive
supplies, notably injectables. There was also the wide gap between knowledge of family planning and use
among the women of reproductive age (Use 27%, knowledge 80%). Under these circumstances, Pop IV
was designed with four major components each addressing a critical area in the population program.
Project Objectives: The Fourth Population Project had three main objectives: (i) to further increase the
availability and quality of family planning services provided by the Government and NGO's; (ii) to further
strengthen demand for family planning services through expansion of IEC programs to additional
government ministries and NGOs; and (iii) to further strengthen the capacity of the NCPD to plan and
monitor the expanding national population program. The project consisted of the following parts:
These objectives were to be achieved by mobilizing and coordinating the resources of Both government and
NGOs and through close collaboration with donor assisted on-going population projects, particularly the
IDA-financed Third Population Project. Demand Generation activities were undertaken by NGOs in those
areas where the 1989 KDHS showed low contraceptive prevalence rates. To address the issue of
plateauing, the project also supported Women's income generating and IEC activities which were expected
to result in substantial fertility decline in the medium and long term. On the issue of supply, the project
ensured a steady supply of contraceptives to meet growing demand while planning services through NGOs.
To achieve these objectives the project undertook the following core activities:
Increasing the Availability and Accessibility of Contraceptives:  Activities included (i)
Acquisition and distribution of contraceptive Supplies including inter alia oral pills, IUDs,
Condoms and injectable contraceptives; (ii) Introduction and expansion of Norplant (a subdermal
implant) as a method of contraception in Kenya's population program through training of Health
sector workers and provision of supplies (Norplant implants and trocars); (iii) Strengthening of the
MOH Logistics Systems for supplying to MOH facilities through upgrading of warehouses;
acquisition of vehicles; staff training and introduction of a computer based "Contraceptive
tracking" system; and (iv) the establishment of systems to monitor the side effects of clinical
contraception and training to monitor such effects.
Promotion of Family Planning Services: Activities included (i) Construction and equipping of 12
Voluntary Surgical Contraception Units (VSCU's) in selected Districts and Sub-districts
throughout the country and acquisition of FP commodities, equipment, appliances, instruments and
supplies for provision of MCH/FP services in 7 provincial hospitals, 51 district hospitals and 42
sub district hospitals and 6 NCPD Family planning clinics constructed with IDA funds and NGO's
FP facilities; (ii) Acquisition of equipment and supplies, provision of qualified medical personnel
41



Appendix C                                                        Borrower Evaluation Report
and the renting of facilities for clinic in Nyeri to undertake surgical contraception services; (iii)
Assistance to the following NGOs: (a) Family planning association of Kenya (FPAK) for
development of IEC programs in the western and coast provinces; (b) Kenya Catholic Secretariat
for upgrading of about 40 clinics to provide integrate MSCH family planning services and the
development of IEC programs in the western province; (c) Seventh Day Adventist for upgrading 10
clinics to provide MCH/FP services and construction of two voluntary Surgical contraception units
in Nyanza; and (d) Crescent Medical aid Society of Kenya for expansion of MCH/FP services in
eight provincial areas of Nairobi, and development of IEC programs in these areas.
Strengthening of the National Council for Population and Development (NCPD): Under this
component the following activities had been panned and funded: (i) Construction and equipping of
a national headquarters building for NCPD; (ii) Establishment and construction of 14 additional
District Population Offices, including acquisition office equipment, furniture and vehicles and
training of staff, (iii) Establishment of a Manpower development plan for NCPD staff, and
coordination of staff development and training activities throughout the population program; and
(iv) Preparation of a comprehensive IEC strategy.
Research: Activities under this component included: (i) Carrying out research on reproduction at
the Institute of Primate Research if the National Museum of Kenya; (ii) Carrying out a feasibility
study for the local manufacture of injectable and oral contraceptives; and (iii) Carrying out
operational research activities including inter alia, the evaluation of the first phase district
population program.
Involvement of Other Donors: Kenya's population program has been strongly supported by external
donors. UNFPA has been playing a key role in donor coordination and has developed mechanisms for
regular consultations between donors and the Government. USAID has been the largest bilateral donor in
the population sector. It is involved in virtually all aspects of Kenya's Population Program. NORAD,
DfID (ODA) and SIDA have also strongly supported the population program. In addition FINIDA
supported the NORPLANT Expansion Component and helped in firmly establishing the method in Kenya.
Project Design and Expected Benefits: The project was designed along the same lines as the Population
III Project but aimed at filling crucial gaps resulting from an acceleration of the demand for contraceptives
that was not anticipated at the appraisal of the Third Population Project. During the implementation of the
Third Population Project, the KDHS identified several emerging gaps in the Kenya population program.
Specifically, the KDHS revealed that demand for contraceptives was not only higher than the figures used
for appraisal of Population III Project but that the trend showed a likelihood of continued increase in
demand. As a result, the requirements for contraceptive supplies estimated during appraisal of the Third
Population Project were surpassed by far.
The survey also pointed out that there were specific regions of the country (Western and Coast Provinces)
where Contraceptive Prevalence Rates (CPRs) were very low and required targeted IEC activites. The
broad objectives of the Project were to fill these newly identified gaps as well as to address the issue of
CPR plateauing. Indeed the Project continued to build on efforts begun under previous IDA lending
operations, in institution building, strengthening of NCPD and expansion of NGO population programs. It
is expected to improve effectiveness of the population program and expand its coverage. In addition, the
Project laid the groundwork for addressing longer-term sustainability levels and future financing of the
program.
42



Appendix C                                                        Borrower Evaluation Report
Achievement of Project Objectives:
Kenya has made some remarkable strides in the Population program particularly if one were to use
demographic indicators as a measure. While some of the successes could be attributable to efforts in the
other sectors of the economy, it is undeniable that the substantial investments in the population and health
sector must have contributed in no small measure to the success.
OBJECTIVE ONE: INCREASING AVAILABILITY AND ACCESSIBILITY OF CONTRACEPTIVES. Bearing
that the procurement, delivery and distribution of FP equipment and supplies and appliances that have been
procured with proceeds of Credit 2110-KE over the last 23 months exceeds any that has been undertaken in
any single operation financed by either the Bank or any other donor and the fact that the equipment and
supplies received will benefit the entire country, and that the FP commodities procured will ensure
availability of supplies up to the year 2000, this component of the project was highly successful. The
Norplant Method of contraceptives is now fully established in the country.
The MOH FP Loan system for supplying contraceptives to the MOH facilities has been strengthened and is
fully operational. It will be further expanded and be integrated into broader MOH-Logistics systems for
supplying pharmaceuticals; non-pharmaceuticals, Sera and vaccines over and above its current coverage
commodities as the Ministry transforms the Medical Suppliers Coordinating Unit into "an automatic legally
mandated Body Corporate independent of day to day management by the Ministry of Health, with capacity
to plan; procure and distribute drugs and other Medical Supplies to Public Health Facilities." It has been
proposed that the Body Corporate's initial capitalization be provided by GOK, NHIF and other interested
development partners. The experience gained by the MOH in operation a FP Logistics Management Unit
has been a useful input in this effort.
OBJECTIVE 2: PROMOTION OF FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES: Over all the objective of promoting
Family Planning Services has been achieved. The Preliminary 1998 Kenya Demographic and Health
Survey (KDHS) Report presents evidence rates and an increase in the use of famnily planning methods since
the 1993 KHDS. The report also shows an increase in infant and under five mortality during the 1990's.
The 1998 KHDS data shows that the Total fertility rate for the three years before the current survey is 4.7
children per woman, down from 5.4 children per woman based on the 1993 KHDS (NCPD, CBS, and MI
1994) and 6.7 children woman based on the 1989 KHDS (NCPD and IBD/Macro, 1989). Fertility has
fallen recently at every age except amongst the youngest women, age 15-19.
The 1998 KHDS shows that there has been a steady rise in contraceptive prevalence rates among those
aged between 1-49 years. Nearly two-thirds (64%) of currently married women in Kenya have had
experience in using family planning methods at some time in the past; up from 55% in 1993 KHDS. The
pill (33%); injectables (25%) and periodic abstinence (19%) are the most commonly used methods.
Overall, 39% of married women in Kenya are currently using a contraceptive method. Modem methods
are much preferred over traditional methods. Contraceptive use, especially use of modem methods, has
risen sharply since the early 1980s and is probably the principle cause of the sharp fertility decline during
the period 1989 to 1998. As a result of these demographic changes population growth rate has declined
from 3% in 1993 to 2.8% in 1998/99.
Civil Works: For both the MOH and the NCPD, the planned construction/renovations and commissioning
of VSCU had modest success. For the MOH; out of the 14 facilities that were planned, seven (7) VSCUs
are complete and operational. One (1) VSCU/OPD is partially operational with the OPD fully functional
and VSCU awaiting installation of theatre lamps and power connection. Four (4) are 95% complete and
(1) VSCU is 80% complete. The Government undertakes to complete these facilities and make them
functional. Delays in completing the projects were caused extremely high rates of inflation in 1992/93
43



A,pendix C                                                        Borrower Evaluation Report
immediately after the contract awards were made and demand by contractors for revision of rates and
claims for extra preliminaries which took the MOPW a long time to evaluate before recommendations for
revisions were forwarded to the client Ministry for review and action by IDA.
NCPD/NGO Component: For the NCPD component the first sub-component dealing with the introduction
of surgical contraceptives has been relatively successful. A substantial number of female sterilization and
a small number of vasectomies have been performed around the Mt. Kenya region through the efforts of
Chania clinics. This however, was supported by a variety of IEC activities within the catchment area which
has gradually improved access of VSC. The sub component of Family Planning IEC and services through
NGOs has been moderately successful. The planned construction/ renovation of clinics by Crescent
Medical Aid (K) and Seventh Day Aid are at advanced stages of completion. However, only nine (9) of the
dispensaries planned under KCS are either complete or almost complete. Construction of the rest could not
commence since the local communities could not raise 20% of the cost required in time. A model clinic and
training centre approved later in the project cycle, FPAK, is now complete. Equipment is also to be
supplied to all units expected to be ready except CMAK whose equipment needs were not received in time.
The IEC portion of this sub component has been below average since the method adopted for releasing
funds has been extremely cumbersome leading to long delays in implementation. Still the SDA met most of
its IEC objectives, including development of suitable reproductive health messages and production of IEC
materials. Implementation of IEC activities by FPAK CMAK and KCS has been inadequate.
OBJECTWE THREE: STRENGTHENING OF NCPD: On the planned strengthening of the NCPD, only
training was implemented, although even this was affected by an audit exercise demanded by IDA. The
planned construction of NCPD headquarters as well as expansion of the district program did not take place
due to shift in IDA focus. Support for research on reproduction through the Institute of Primate Research
has been moderately successful although the scheduled procurement could not take affect on time. While
the envisaged long-term manpower development plan was not prepared, a study was undertaken to
determine manpower needs for the population program. The IEC subcomponent was not implemented due
to delay in completing national IEC Strategy which was a condition for implementation. The IEC strategy
and implementation plan was subsequently completed under UNFPA funding and USAID technical
backstopping.
Major Factors Affecting the Project: For the main stream activities conducted by the MOH, the
following major factors affected implementation of this project.
1. Inadequate capacity by the Borrower to effectively undertake International Competitive Bidding for the
large quantities FP commodities; Medical Equipment; Instruments and materials required for project
implementation. This shortcoming was addressed by the Borrower through the appointment of M/S
GTZ as the Procurement Agent for the project.  This action enabled the Borrower to turn
implementation around and manage to affect procurement of items worth over US$ 16 million in a
record 18 months.
2. Macro economic factors beyond the Borrower's control such as high inflation rates; exchange rate
fluctuations against the Kenya Shillings and declining allocations per Capita for the MOH affected
implementation of the Civil Works Component.
3. Initially, visiting WB supervision Mission did not undertake effective supervision of Project activities.
This partly contributed to slow implementation pace. Also at the time of project appraisal no attempt
was made to define performance indicators/ standards of performance.
44



Appendix C                                                        Borrower Evaluation Report
4. Preparation of realistic annual work plans; procurement plans and training plans were not a
requirement for approval of requests for 'No Objection' until 1995/96.
5. Up to 1995 there was very little involvement of the stakeholders in the implementation of the project.
This changed when the new WB Task Team took over the management of the project.
6. There was no recurrent expenditure category in the original DCA. This adversely affected project
supervision, particularly the supervision of the many Civil Works Projects that were going on in
various parts of the country. This shortcoming was addressed during the one year extension with a
very big difference to the implementation outcomes of the project particularly as they related to Civil
Works.
7. The continuing spread of HIV/AIDS among people in the active reproductive bracket during the 1990's
has resulted in increasing Infant Mortality Rates (IMR) as well as under - 5 Mortality rate. The
Epidemic threatens to wipe out the gains that have been made by the MCH/FP Program over the last
three decades.
For the NCPD/NGO components of the Project the following six (6) major factors have been cited:
1. Although project implementation was meant to start immediately after the credit was signed, some
components could not start immediately. This was mostly due to delay in signing the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) between the GOK and NGOs and fulfillment of Certain conditionalities.
2. At the initial stages there was considerable delay in disbursing the first up-front allocation. NGOs had
a lot of difficulties in accounting for the funds expend before they could get reimbursement of the
special Account system was put in place, it proved to be quite cumbersome due to man power involved.
Sometimes payments tool as long as three months.
3. IDA Procurement procedures and GOK requirements are often different hence occasional delay trying
to harmonize the two.
4. The IDA requirement that a no objection must be obtained before the activity takes place affected the
projects in that at times IDA takes time to grant no objection.
5. NCPD was supposed to build a Headquarters. This activity which was going to be very beneficial was
cancelled. The same was done for the DPO offices in the Districts. The IEC component of the projects
was also cancelled and funds reallocated.
6. Project Components did not have well defined objectives with targets which could guide
implementation. It was, therefore, not easy to determine achievement at any one time.
Sustainability of Project Objectives: The Kenya population program still relies heavily on donor
financing. As we look ahead, we see a real focus on a program that will gradually isolate those who are
willing and able to pay for FP services and so. This can be achieved by setting up in strategic areas
starting with urban areas, amenity MCH/FP centers where charges for services will be levied. These
should gradually be introduced in government health institutions as the idea gets accepted by more clients.
This will ensure sustainability of the MCHIFP and for the Public Health Sector. In this regard, the DPHC
in collaboration with GTZ is piloting one study on fee for services and as willingness and ability to pay has
been conducted by FHI in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and Moi University. Data analysis is
in progress. Social Marketing of condoms has registered significant success and some of the condoms
procured under the 4th population project will be used for this activity.
45



Appendix C                                                        Borrower Evaluation Report
For the NCPD/NGO components of the project, sustainability of project activities after funding by IDA is
being seriously considered. Introduction of user fees by various organization for the various services have
been implemented or considered. Various studies indicate that the majority of clients are will to pay a
minimum amount for the various contraceptive services. The social marketing survey conducted in Kenya
showed that with the proper planning and implementation, contraceptives can be bought by clients at an
agreed fee. This, however, will vary from area to area depending on the income level of the communities.
There is need to develop a comprehensive plan and time schedule to implement a nationwide Social
Marketing Scheme and other cost recovery programs. The private sector will be encouraged to participate
more in the marketing of contraceptives. This should be done through availing the commodities in their
shops: factories or any other area of operation.
Borrower Performance: Given the factors that affected Project Implementation that have been outlined
above the Borrower's Perfortnance was satisfactory.
Bank Performance: Initially, the performance of the Bank was below expectation, particularly with
regard to the utility of Supervision Missions. However, with the new Task Team that came in 18-24
months before the project closed on 30/6/1998 the performance rose way above average in terms of
tackling and resolving implementation bottlenecks and providing an enabling environment for better
performance. The improvement of Bank performance applied both to Nairobi and Washington offices.
T'he impact of the good performance is clearly reflected in the implementation progress and disbursement
made during the later 18 months of the project's life.
Assessment of Outcome: Given the projects objectives as spelt out in the Staff Appraisal Report and in
the Legal Agreement signed on May 21, 1990, the outcome of the 4th Population Project was satisfactory
for the following reasons: (i) Kenya has experienced substantial decline in fertility rate since 1989 to date.
Total Fertility Rate (TFR) declined from 6.7 to 5.4 in 1993 and it is expected to decline further to 4.8 in
1998; (ii) The annual population growth rate has declined from 3.3% in 1989 to 2.8% in 1998 and is
expected to decline further to 2.5% by the year 2000.
Future Operations: Future operations in the population sector will focus on the wider area of
Reproductive Health which include Adolescent Reproductive Health and Safe Motherhood initiatives over
and above the traditional MCH/FP activities. Contraceptive prevalence has increased from 27% in 1989 to
33% in 1993 and is expected to increase by the year 2000. There is however, a big gap between knowledge
of family planning which stands at 97% of actual use at 33%. This unmet demand for FP accounts for 4.5
million of projected 10 million increase in population between 1995 and 2010. There is, therefore, need to
put in place during future operations, programs that will further address this issue and bridge the gap.
Key Lessons Learnt: The key lessons learned during implementation of the Fourth Population Project
include the following:
1. In order to foster ownership of the project by the borrower, it is essential to involve key stakeholders in
the stages of project formulation, preparation, appraisal and implementation.
2. Clearly defined performance indicators/standards have to be agreed upon at the time of the project
appraisal in order to ensure effective and timely implementation.
3. Before commencement of project implementation clear process/modalities for accessing project funding
should be spelt out between IDA and GOK. This is particularly so in cases where a third party is
involved in the implementation process.
4. The number of planned civil works projects in any operation should be few to facilitate effective
46



Appendix C                                                        Borrower Evaluation Report
supervision and completion.
5. Adequate procurements capacity is a pre-requisite for effective project implementation.
6. Future operations should include an expenditure category of Operations and Maintenance to facilitate
regular supervision project activities particularly civil works.
7. Preparation of realistic annual work plans; Procurement and Training Plans is an integral part of
effective project implementation and should be a pre-requisite for granting of IDA 'No Objection' for
activities to be financed under future IDA operations. This will ensure timely project implementation
and completion.
8. The Working relationships between IDA and GOK did not always reflect common interest/comnmon
goal approach due to a set up which subordinates genuine GOK positions. Regular consultations at
program level are necessary to promote common understanding. Review mnissions should take more
seriously any changed circumstances and not merely insist on adherence to project documents.
9. There was need to have strengthened the financial and monitoring systems of the NCPD before
commencement of the project.
10. There should have been adequate field visits by NCPD staff to monitor implementation activities.
47



Kenya
Fourth Population Project
Appendix D: Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR
48



MAP SECION



IBRD 21992
SUDAN                                                                         KENYA
DISTRICT POPULATION PROGRAMS
TURKANA         |,1
RIFT                                                                                    MANODRA
<:   S           A~~~LLEY                         EASTERN                                  NORT
s~~ ~~~~~~~~ \0 100 15 2 Kioetr
~~        ~                  0           50         100 MilesSTER
tN  NRZAO&W^iGAS   XIRIAIYArm   1999
~~~~~~~~~NKR                                                 8ARINCSA< 
'5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GA8\CA155A
S   RIFT  \ tAIROBR                                                KITUI  
\   )  d      XACHAKOSX                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAiNA RIVER
<               KA/IADnVALLJ                                                IAMu r
Population IV Districts       /         ik\                                          <                  e
Population III Districts                                                       a             t
o       Province Capitals 
(i  National Capital¢                                        AT/r
Rivers                                                                                        SUDA|N9 7  , t
District BoundariesMO S:                                                                                         /
Province Boundaries                                           K     A          OM 
International BoundaTles              to      0     20Kimers                                R               nda
on/) rrt~~F~~l~  :3t & -      °          SD         too Miles                                     I_. 
December 1989



