Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2110 KE
                    (Fourth Population Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 21, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2110 KE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 21, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) a grant in an amount
approximately equivalent to two million two hundred thousand dollars
($2,200,000) to assist in financing part of the Project, on terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the USAID Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and USAID;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Devel-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (b)   "NCPD" means the National Council for Population and
Development, established in the Borrower's  Ministry of Home Affairs
and National Heritage;
      (c)   "NGO" means a Non-governmental Organization;
      (d)   "MCH/FP" means Maternal and Child Health and Family
Planning;
      (e)   "IEC" means Information, Education and Communication of
health and population activities;
      (f)   "FPAK" means the Family Planning Association of Kenya;
and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-six million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account through its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15,
commencing September 15, 2000 and ending March 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through  MOH
Page  4
and NCPD with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, family planning, public
health and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall: (i) make the proceeds of the Credit
for Part C of the Project available to the NGOs promptly as needed
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, which shall
include, inter alia, the terms referred to in Paragraph 5 of
Schedule 4 to the Agreement; and (ii) ensure that the NGOs carry out
Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in
accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, family
planning, public health and engineering practices, and that they
shall provide, promptly as needed, facilities, services and other
resources required for that purpose.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1991, furnish to the Association for its review and approval the
proposals for research to be undertaken by the Institute of Primate
Research under Part D.1 of the Project.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare (i) a compre-
hensive IEC Strategy, and (ii) a plan of action satisfactory to the
Association for the implementation of such strategy; and
      (b)   promptly thereafter commence implementation of such plan
of action.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
      (a)   Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph the right
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the USAID Grant made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
      (b)   Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association for its
review and comments an organizational structure for MOH's Division
of Family Health and a plan of action for its implementation; and
      (b)   the Borrower has appointed a Logistics Management
Adviser in MOH's Division of Family Health, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Page  6
                           ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      For the Borrower:
            Office of the Vice President and
              Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30007
            Nairobi, Kenya
            Cable address:           Telex:
                   FINANCE              22921
                   Nairobi              MINFIN Nairobi
      For the Association:
            International Development
               Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
            IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                         By /s/ Denis Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated            % of
Page  7
                         (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category           SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                                80%
      for:
      (a)   All Parts          5,700,000
            of the
            Project
            except for
            Part C.2
      (b)   Part C.2             450,000
            of the Project
(2)   Goods, equipment,                          100% of foreign
      supplies and                               expenditures and
      vehicles for:                              70% of local
                                                 expenditures
      (a)   All Parts          7,370,000
            of the
            Project
            except for
            Parts C.2
            and C.4
      (b)   Part C.2             750,000
            of the Project
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated            % of
                         (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category           SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(3)   Consultants'             4,500,000         100%
      services, training
      and research
(4)   Goods, materials         2,260,000         80%
      and services for
      subprojects under
      Part B.3 of the
      Project
(5)   Equipment,               2,260,000         100% of foreign
      materials and                              expenditures and
      supplies for                               70% of local
      Part C.4 of                                expenditures
      the Project
(6)   Unallocated              3,010,000
                               _________
            TOTAL             26,300,000
                              __________
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments made
for expenditures with respect to Categories (1)(b), (2)(b) and 3(b)
Page  8
until the Borrower has furnished to the Association an evaluation of
the first phase of the district population program and has agreed
with the Association on the changes required for the implementation
of the next phase; (c) payments made for expenditures with respect
to Category (4) until the Borrower has furnished to the Association
an implementation plan, acceptable to the Association, for the first
year of the program included in Part B.3 of the Project; and (d)
payments made for expenditures with respect to Category (5) until
the Borrower has prepared the IEC Strategy referred to in Section
3.04 of this Agreement and has furnished to the Association for its
approval the plan of action for the implementation of such strategy.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase the
availability, accessibility and quality of family planning services
provided by the Borrower and NGOs; (ii) strengthen the demand for
family planning services; and (iii) strengthen the capacity of NCPD
to plan and monitor the expanding national population program.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Increasing Availability and Accessibility of
            Contraceptives
1.    Acquisition of contraceptive supplies, including inter alia
oral pills, IUDs, condoms and injectable contraceptives.
2.    Introduction of Norplant (a subdermal implant) as a method of
contraception in the Borrower's population program through training
of health sector workers and provision of supplies.
3.    Strengthening the existing MOH logistics systems for supplying
contraceptives to MOH facilities through upgrading of warehouses,
acquisition of vehicles and training.
4.    Establishment of systems to monitor the side effects of
clinical contraception and training to monitor such effects.
Part B:     Promotion of Family Planning Services
1.    (a)   Construction and equipping of six voluntary surgical
contraception units in Nairobi, and (b) acquisition of equipment for
provision of family planning services in about 300 MOH health
facilities.
2.    Acquisition of equipment and supplies, provision of qualified
medical personnel and the renting of facilities for a clinic in
Nyeri to undertake surgical contraception services.
3.    Undertaking a program of income generating activities, family
planning, IEC and contraceptive distribution to women's and men's
groups, through the provision of training and the support of small-
scale  projects.
4.    Assistance to the following NGOs:
      (a)   Family Planning Association of Kenya for development of
IEC programs in the Western and Coast provinces;
      (b)   Kenya Catholic Secretariat for the upgrading of about 40
clinics to provide integrated MCH and natural family planning
services and the development of IEC programs in the Western
Province;
      (c)   Seventh Day Adventist for upgrading 10 clinics to
provide MCH/FP services and construction of two voluntary surgical
Page  9
contraception units in Nyanza;
      (d)   Crescent Medical Aid Society of Kenya for expansion of
MCH/FP services in eight peri-urban areas of Nairobi, upgrading and
equipping of one voluntary surgical contraception unit and the
development of IEC programs in these areas;
      (e)   Implementation of an IEC program in the North Eastern
Province.
Part C:     NCPD Strengthening
1.    Construction and equipping of a national headquarters building
for NCPD.
2.    Establishment and construction of fourteen additional District
Population Offices, including acquisition of office equipment,
furniture and vehicles, and training of staff.
3.    Establishment of a manpower development plan for NCPD staff,
and coordination of staff development and training activities
throughout the population program.
4.    Preparation and implementation of a comprehensive IEC
Strategy.
Part D:     Research
1.    Carrying out research on reproduction at the Institute of
Primate Research of the National Museums of Kenya.
2.    Carrying out a feasibility study for the local manufacture of
injectable and oral contraceptives.
3.    Carrying out operational research activities including, inter
alia, the evaluation of the first phase of the district population
program.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
Page  10
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Injectable contraceptives up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $6,200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation
and comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.    Items or groups of items for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, furniture and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000 and materials and
supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items for materials and supplies estimated
to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.    Contracts for Norplant may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and specialists whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs and National
Heritage, shall have overall responsibility for the coordination of
the Project. The Director of NCPD shall be responsible for the day-
to-day coordination, supervision of the NCPD component and for
monitoring the activities of the other agencies of the Borrower and
NGOs.
Page  11
2.    Each agency shall identify a project coordinator who shall
work closely with NCPD. The Project Coordinating Committee chaired
by the Director of NCPD and comprising such coordinators and senior
NCPD staff, established under the Third Population Project Credit
1904-KE shall be modified and maintained to coordinate imple-
mentation of the Project. The Committee shall meet at least once
each quarter to review Project Implementation.
3.    The Borrower shall not later than March 31 of each year
furnish to the Association draft annual work plans for the Project,
including adequate budgetary allocations.
4.    The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1992, carry
out with the Association a mid-term review of the Project.
5.    NCPD shall make funds available to NGOs on terms whereby NCPD
shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Association and NCPD, including the right to:
      (a)   require each NGO to carry out its Part of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial, managerial and Family Planning standards and
to maintain adequate records and accounts;
      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in carrying out the
Project; and
      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association, if the Association shall so request, such goods and
works carried out by the NGO.
6.    (a)   The Borrower shall introduce income generating
activities, FP, IEC and contraceptive distribution to women's and
men's groups. The small-scale projects shall be selected using the
following criteria:
             (i)   significant population component;
            (ii)   proposed by a well-established group;
           (iii)   income-generating capacity;
            (iv)   a relatively small size; and
             (v)   not need significant technical support.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the funds available to the
groups as a grant.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
Page  12
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  13
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
