Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 30020; 3002A; 3002S)
ON A                  Report No: 20141
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 31.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR A SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD
REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 29, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 06/12/2000)
Currency Unit = Quetzal
GTQ 7.68 =US$ 1.00
US$ 0.13 =GTQ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT                  Average Daily Traffic
CABEI                Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
COVIAL               Road Maintenance Unit (Unidad de Conservaci6n Vial)
DGC                  General Roads Directorate (Direcci6n General de Caminos)
EA                   Environmental Assessment
FEGUA                Guatemalan Railways (Ferrocarriles de Guatemala)
FY                  IBRD's Fiscal Year (July I to June 30)
GOG                  Government of Guatemala
HDM                  Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
IRR                  Internal Rate of Return
MICIVI               Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure, and Housing (Ministerio de
Comunicaciones, Infraestructuray Vivienda)
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NPV                  Net Present Value
NTP                  National Transport Plan
OPS                  Office of Project Services
PCU                  Project Coordination Unit
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
TA                   Technical Assistance
UCD                  Concessioning Unit (Unidad de Concesiones y Desincorporaci6n)
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
VOC                  Vehicle Operating Costs
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Unit Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Guillermo Ruan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
1.      Project Data                                                         1
2.      Principal Performance Ratings                                         1
3.      Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry   2
4.      Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                 5
5.      Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                   9
6.       Sustainability                                                     10
7.      Bank and Borrower Performance                                        10
8.      Lessons Leamed                                                       12
9.       Partner Comments                                                    13
Annex 1 Key Performance Indicators                                          20
Annex 2 Project Costs and Financing                                         23
Annex 3 Economic Costs and Benefits                                         26
Annex 4 Bank Inputs                                                         27
Annex 5 Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components         29
Annex 6 Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                            30
Annex 7 List of Supporting Documents                                        31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



Project ID: P007205                    Project Name: SCNDRY&REG RD RHB
Team Leader: Guillermo Ruan            TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                     Report Date: June 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SECONDARY & REGIONAL             L/C Number: 30020; 3002A; 3002S
ROADS REHABILITATION
Country/Department: GUATEMALA                           Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: TR - Rural Roads
KEY DATES
Original        Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/25/87                         Effective:                  11/17/93
Appraisal:  09/25/87                           MTR:
Approval:  12/06/88                         Closing:  06/30/98         12/30/99
Borrower/Implementing REP. OF GUATEMALA (MIN. OF FIN.)/MICIVI/DGC
Agency:
STAFF                  Current                        At Appraisal
Vice President:        David de Ferranti              S. Shahid Husain
Country Manager:       D-M Dowsett-Coirolo            George Park
Sector Manager:        Jeffrey Gutman                 Ricardo Halperin (Div. Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:    Guillermo Ruan                 Pedro Giraldes
ICR Primary Author:    Mahendra Lal (Consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:   S
Sustainability:  HL
Institutional Development Impact:  H
Bank Performance:   S
Borrower Performance:   S
QAG (if available)  ICR
Quality at Entry:                  S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
I



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective.
The main objectives of the project were: (a) to preserve and strengthen the administrative and
operational capabilities of the General Roads Directorate (DGC) initiated under the previous Bank
Loan, 1846-GU; (b) to rehabilitate and maintain damaged secondary and regional roads of key
economic importance; (c) to promote the role of the private sector in the execution of public works;
and (d) to enhance the capabilities of the Ministry of Communications, Infrastructure and Housing
(MICIVI) for transport planning and policy-making.
The Project Objectives were consistent with the Government's broad macro-economic objectives and
were supportive of the significant changes and improvements the Government of Guatemala was
implementing at the time of Appraisal and Reformulation of the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the Loan was appraised in September 1987, and approved by the Board in December 1988,
there was a lag of nearly five years between appraisal and the start of project implementation and it
was only signed on May 21, 1993 due to an overall suspension of disbursements to Guatemala. Upon
resumption of Bank activities in Guatemala, the project was reformulated and substantial changes
were made to the project scope to reflect revised priorities that had emerged in the intervening period.
However the concept and objectives of the project remained unchanged.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was estimated to cost a total of US$49.1 million (July 1988 prices) including contingency
allowances. The Loan of US$31.5 million would finance 95% of the foreign exchange component of
the project (67% of the total project cost) and government counterpart funding would provide for the
balance amounting to US$17.6 million, comprising US$16.1 million of local costs and US$1.5 million
of mostly indirect foreign exchange costs.
The project comprised the following original components:
Component                            Total Cost    Bank Loan
(US$million)  (US$million)
Secondary Road Rehabilitation and Improvement. This covered Civil  13.8      8.3
Works for 389 km of earth roads, construction supervision for these
works and detailed engineering for 590 km of earth roads.
Regional Road Rehabilitation and Strengthening Comprising civil  17.4        10.4
works for 183 km of paved roads, construction supervision for these
works, and detailed engineering for 200 km of paved roads.
Construction of Bridges for Secondary Roads (500 m). This was to  1.8        1.1
replace old wooden bridges.
2



Road Maintenance and Miscellaneous Equipment. Covering earth  6.1           5.8
moving machinery, transport vehicles, computers and, laboratory
equipment, etc.
Training Program.  Training of, managers, professionals and   1.0           0.2
technicians through seminars and study visits.  The component
included training material and equipment.
Technical Assistance and Studies. Including setting up the HDM-III  1.8     1.1
Highway Model and the development of the National Transport Plan.
Contingencies                                                 7.2           4.6
TOTAL COST                                                   49.1           31.5
3.4 Revised Components:
Upon resumption of Bank activities in Guatemala, UNDP consultants were retained to work with the
Government and the Bank in the reformulation of the original project. The Government indicated that
it wished to maintain the project objectives and the loan amount unchanged to avoid reconsideration
by the Guatemalan Congress and further implementation delays. The Government also wanted to
change the original design concept of the secondary road component to make it consistent with the
government's new policy of upgrading the design standard for key secondary roads, and also to take
into account a severe deterioration of some of the secondary roads during the five years since initial
Board approval in 1988.
In line with that, the Government's approach was that rather than limiting the works to be performed
on these roads to an average investment per km of US$30,000 (1988 prices) to cover the cost of the
reconditioning of the existing 5.5 meter road bed with minor modifications to the horizontal and
vertical alignment, and the surfacing of the roads with a 20 cm layer of granular material, these roads
were to be upgraded by the provision of wider lanes, the addition of shoulders, the provision of
drainage, the construction/rehabilitation of bridges, and the improvement to both the vertical and
horizontal alignment and of the pavement structure including asphalt surfacing. These improvements,
which involved a substantial change in the scope of secondary road rehabilitation and directed works
at paved rather than unpaved roads, made the project more effective and were expected to translate
into costs ranging from US$250,000 to US$300,000 per km (1993 prices). The proposed design
concept was reviewed by the UNDP consultants and the Bank and found acceptable.
The nature of the remaining components of the original project was left unchanged. Only the length of
road to be rehabilitated under the Regional Road Rehabilitation and Strengthening component was
reduced to account for the additional road deterioration and natural price increase since the project was
appraised in 1987.
The reformulation of the project with the help of the UNDP consultants was completed in May 1993
and the corresponding Loan agreement was signed on May 21, 1993. The project became effective on
November 17, 1993.
3



The revised project and component costs were estimated as follows:
Component                                              Total Cost    Bank Loan
(US$ million)  (US$ million)
Secondary Road Rehabilitation and Improvement. This covered  14.1         8.5
Civil Works for 38 km of paved secondary roads, construction
supervision for same, and detailed engineering for 387 km.
Regional Road Rehabilitation and Strengthening. Comprising  22.0          13.2
civil works for 97 km of paved roads, construction supervision
for these works, and detailed engineering for 125 km.
Construction of Steel Bridges for Secondary Roads (415 m). To  1.5        0.9
replace worn out wooden bridges
Road Maintenance and Miscellaneous Equipment. Covering      4.0           3.9
earth moving equipment, transport vehicles, laboratory
equipment, etc.
Training Program. Covering equipment, training courses for  1.0           0.2
professionals, instructors and study visits.
Technical Assistance and Studies. Including the HDM-III     2.0           1.8
Highway Model and the development of the National Transport
Plan.
Contingencies                                               4.5           3.0
TOTAL COST                                                 49.1           31.5
An amount of approximately US$5.9 million was canceled from the Bank Loan in March 1995, due to
misprocurement and subproject deletion arising from the cancellation, reducing the Bank Loan to
US$25.6 million and the project cost to US$38.9 million (see Para. 5.2). The Loan was closed on
December 31, 1999 and a balance of US$365,114.24 was canceled on June 2, 2000.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The quality of the project at entry after the reformulation was satisfactory. The principal
components of the project were developed jointly by the Borrower and the Bank with the assistance of
the UNDP, and the project was updated and reformulated after the lending and disbursement hiatus of
the 1988-93 period, also with the participation of UNDP consultants. The quality at entry was
considerably enhanced by the assistance of INDP and the GOG's commitment to the project.
4



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objectives.
Satisfactory. The project was to a large extent adequately carried out and merits a rating of satisfactory
according to standards prevailing at the time of Appraisal. These standards were not changed when
reformulation of the project took place in 1993 (Para. 3.2). The full implementation of the investments
and the Plan of Action (Para. 4.2) helped in the achievement of the project objectives. Considering the
four objectives one by one, the following is noted:
(a) Institutional Efficiency of the General Roads Directorate (Direcci6n General de Caminos - DGC):
To implement the project, a Program Coordination Unit (PCU) was set up in the DGC, and later
integrated in the DGC, as the coordinating unit for external financing. It is currently in charge of the
development administration and implementation of all projects that have an element of external
funding. The training program of the project was adequately implemented (Para. 4.2 ) and the
Technical Assistance program produced good results in as much as it enabled DGC to improve its
work of design, studies and execution and supervision of works. Likewise, the introduction of the
World Bank Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM) helped greatly in the formulation of the
pluriannual investment programs. The development and implementation of a project monitoring and
financial administration systems, and the strengthening of supervision procedures enhanced DGC's
capacity in project administration.
(b) The Rehabilitation of the Secondary and Regional Roads is dealt with in greater detail in Para 4.2
below. The program outlined in parts A, B, and C of the project in regard to the rehabilitation of the
roads was fully implemented and the necessary road maintenance equipment acquired and put into
commission, greatly improving the number of roads in good condition (see sub-para (c) ).
(c) Promotion of Private Sector in the Execution of Public Works: The project provided for the
outsourcing of road maintenance activities, for which the Government launched a country-wide effort
to involve the private sector. In 1997, a road fund was started, with money received from the fuel
taxes, to pay for maintenance activities and later COVIAL (Unidad de Conservacion Vial) was created
to manage the fund. One hundred percent of the paved road network and 60% of the unpaved network
is now maintained by the private sector. As a result, 89% of the paved highway network is now in
good condition as compared to 20% at appraisal. Also, following the recommendations of the National
Transport Plan that was prepared under the loan, the Unidad de Concesiones y Desincorporacion
(UCD) was created in MICIVI for the concession of highways to the private sector, and the first
contract assigned to the private sector for a new highway was for the Palin - Escuintla - Puerto Quetzal
section. Thus, both in maintenance and new works considerable progress has been made in the
incorporation of the private sector.
(d) Enhancement of MICIVI's Capabilities for Transport Planning and Policy-making: The
implementation of this project took place during a period of economic reforms and modernization of
the state aimed principally at reducing government activity and increasing the role of the private
sector. This resulted in the gradual redefinition of the ministry's principal functions. As far as the
transport sector is concerned, and particularly the highways, the MICIVI remained, through the DGC,
5



responsible for the maintenance, rehabilitation and new construction of highways, albeit through
implementation by private contractors.
In the transport sector, in general, action under the project was concentrated on: (i) preparation of the
National Transport Plan including development of appropriate methodologies for analysis and
planning and policy-making; (ii) development of private sector participation in road maintenance
activities; (iii) institutional development to strengthen sector coordination in a multimodal framework;
and (iv) environmental assessment of transport programs.
4.2 Outputs by components:
When the project was initially appraised, Guatemala had a well developed primary and secondary road
network which, however, as a result of aging, inadequate control of axle loads and deferred
maintenance, had reached an advanced stage of deterioration. At the time only about 20% of the
network was in good condition. The Secondary and Regional Road Rehabilitation project aimed at
improvement of the condition of the road network.
Component A - Secondary Road Rehabilitation and Improvement
The work included engineering designs and economic/environmental studies for about 342 km as
against 387 km foreseen after reformulation and the rehabilitation of approximately 54 km as against
38 km foreseen after reformulation. The 54 km included the rehabilitation of San Juan Ostuncalco
section of National Road 01 (RNO1) and the improvement of some sections of other roads within the
area of influence of RNO 1. Details of the works planned and the works actually executed are given in
Annex 1. The major change here was the deletion of the Escuintla-Antigua section of the RN14 due to
resettlement and right-of-way problems, and the inclusion in the program of the San Juan Ostuncalco-
San Marcos.
Component B - Regional Road Rehabilitation and Strengthening
Engineering designs and economic evaluation were completed for nearly 750 km, i.e. about 625 km in
excess of the 125 km planned after reformulation, whereas the rehabilitation of the highways was done
for 78 km against 97 km planned after reformulation. The reduction in the rehabilitation work came
about due to the cancellation of the rehabilitation of the Los Encuentros - Cuatro Caminos because of
misprocurement (Para. 5.2). No other change was introduced to this component except for the
improvement of small road sections within the area of influence of the main rehabilitation works
financed under this component; i.e. the section Popoya-Nahualate of the main road corridor (CA2W)
that connects Guatemala with Mexico and El Salvador.
Component C - Bridge Construction
This component covered the replacement of old and worn out wooden bridges whereby 420 meters of
bridges were installed against 415 meters planned after reformulation. The new bridges were
constructed by private contractors and supervised by the construction division of the DGC.
6



Component D - Road Maintenance and Miscellaneous Equipment
The planned procurement of road maintenance equipment was executed in its entirety with the
exception of the laboratory equipment and some miscellaneous equipment which was not procured
because the related activities were transferred to the private sector. Instead, some reallocation of funds
was done to procure spare parts and handling equipment necessitated by the damage caused by
Hurricane Mitch. The road maintenance equipment needs were analyzed by Gitec of Germany and
these were procured by International Competitive Bidding.
Component E - Training Program
This component which included training of professionals, seminars, postgraduate courses abroad, etc.
was adequately implemented although only about US$0.4 million out of US$1.0 million set aside for
the purpose was spent. This happened because too large a proportion of the funds were to come from
the Government (80%) and there was a shortage of Government funds. Furthermore, other agencies,
particularly IDB, stepped in to provide training programs which were fully financed by its loan
reducing the immediate need for Government funding.
Component F - Technical Assistance and Studies
In preparing the reformulated project, DGC developed, in collaboration with the UNDP consultants
and the Bank, a revised Action Plan to be implemented during project execution, covering a series of
measures for transport sector management. The Technical Assistance and Studies component was
designed to support the revised Action Plan (Annex IA). For the administration of the consultant
services, DGC used the UNDP's Office of Project Services (OPS) to serve as an administrative agent,
for the selection, contracting, and payment of consultants, while the Bank carried out the technical
supervision. Under this component, consultant services were engaged in two main groups:
(a)      Improvement of Highway Management and Road Planning capabilities;
(b)      Preparation of the National Transport Plan (NTP) to improve transport sector
management capabilities.
Under (a), the main actions envisaged under improvement of institutional efficiency were targeted at:
(i) increasing the effectiveness of road sub-sector entities to manage investment programs;
(ii) increasing the efficiency of road maintenance; and (iii) personnel training. The following actions
helped the achievement of these objectives: setting up of the Program Coordination Unit (PCU) in the
DGC; conducting studies for road rehabilitation, bridges, etc.; setting up the HDM; moving from road
maintenance by force account to maintenance by contract for 100% and 40% of the paved and
unpaved networks, respectively; setting up a road fund for maintenance financing; and implementing a
project monitoring system and a financial administration system within DGC.
Under (b), the main actions under transport sector management covered the preparation of the
National Transport Plan including recommendations for the medium term (1996-2000) and for the
long term (2000-2015). Side by side, the introduction of the HDM improved the formulation of the
pluriannual investment programs and monitoring procedures (see also Para. 4.5).
7



The project, originally scheduled (after reformulation) for completion on June 30, 1997, was extended
by two years to June 1999, and finally, because of Hurricane Mitch, to December 31, 1999.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An ex-post evaluation of the two main road sections financed under the Loan (i.e. Popoya Nahualate
and San Juan Ostuncalco-San Marcos) was carried out following the completion of the works and the
results of this evaluation were compared with the forecast included in the project refornulation
document. The results of this evaluation are presented in the table below.
NPV         NPV
Road Sections                IRR         IRR        Forecast     Actual
Forecast    Actual      US$M        US$M
Regional Roads Rehabilitation and Strengthening    33.1  67.5      10.6        46.4
CA2W - Popoya-Nahualate
Secondary Road Rehabilitation and Improvement    12.7  31.9        0.2         8.0
RNO1 - San Juan Ostuncalco-San Marcos
Traffic in both roads increased at rates higher than forecasted at the time of project reformulation. The
average daily traffic (ADT) on Popoya-Nahualate reached 5500 at project completion which translates
in an annual increase of 7% over the 1992 traffic volume. In the case of San Juan Ostuncalco-San
Marcos the annual increase was 10 % and the 1999 ADT reached 1800 vehicles. In addition to the
specific road improvements, three other factors have contributed to the high traffic increase on these
roads: the overall improvement of the road network (additional trips were generated); the signing of
the Peace Accords (road travel became safer); and the signing of trade agreements with Mexico. A
recalculation of the IRR with updated traffic volumes and costs, gives a revised figure estimated at
67.5% (NPV at 12% US$46.38 million) for CA2W Road Rehabilitation Section Popoya-Nauhalate,
and 31.9% (NPV at 12% 7.99 US$ million) for the Road Rehabilitation Section San Juan-Ostuncalco-
San Marcos. This compares very favorably with the forecasted figures shown in the above table.
The economic benefits considered in both projects included mainly the reduction of vehicular
operating costs. The significant benefits related to future maintenance costs were taken into account.
Traffic volumes were based on actual counts taken after project completion. The costs considered for
the economic evaluation were based on the final contracting costs for each project, which included
direct costs, work supervision costs, and environmental mitigation costs.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Highly Satisfactory. The institutional development in this project, reviewed earlier in Para. 4.1
(achievement of objective) in greater detail, was two-fold: First the DGC was strengthened by the
creation of the Project Coordination Unit, which was later integrated in the DGC as the Coordinating
8



Unit for external financing. The DGC also introduced a system of financial administration and cost
accounting which improved and streamlined cost control procedures with the aid of computers.
Secondly, the introduction of the HDM and the preparation and implementation of the National
Transport Plan helped the institutional development of the MICIVI in as much as transport planning in
general was placed on a sound footing, while at the same time encouraging private sector participation
road rehabilitation and maintenance works. The National Transport Plan covers the period up to the
year 2015 and includes, in addition to the road subsector, aspects related to the privatization of the
Guatemalan Railways (FEGUA) and the ports of Quetzal and Puerto Barrios. Overall, the institutional
development effect of this project was substantial and the results, highly satisfactory.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Three major factors affected the implementation of this project. The first was the inordinate delay in
the implementation of the project following the appraisal (see Para. 5.1). The second was the
cancellation of part of the loan due to misprocurement (Para. 5.2). The third factor which was outside
the control of the Government or the implementing agency, and which influenced the project towards
the later stages of its execution, was Hurricane Mitch, which occurred in late October/early November
1998 and necessitated substantial changes in the project (see Para. 5.3).
S. ] Factors generally subject to government control:
The delay in implementing the project following the appraisal was caused initially by the excessive
time taken in obtaining the Government's (Congress) approval to the Bank Project; but in effect the
most important cause of the delay was the fact that overall disbursements to Guatemala were
suspended following the Government's failure to service its debt obligations. This situation was
rectified after a delay of almost five years, during which period the condition of the roads further
deteriorated, necessitating a reformulation of the project with the aid of UTNDP consultants (Paras. 3.3
and 3.4).
5.2 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In July 1994 the Bank, on the request of the implementing agency MICIVI issued a no objection to the
latter's recommendation for the award of the contract for rehabilitation of the highway section Los
Encuentros - Cuatro Caminos to the lowest bidder. About three months later, MICIVI notified the
Bank of its revised decision to award the contract to the third ranked bidder for a larger amount. The
Bank was neither consulted nor informed of the decision to revise the original award. The Bank
reviewed the reasons and documentation presented by MICIVI and concluded that the alleged reasons
were not justified, and indicated that this was an avoidable case of misprocurement and the
corresponding amount of US$5.9 million in the loan would be canceled. The loan amount was
therefore reduced to US$25.6 million and the relevant subproject deleted from the project.
5.3 Factors outside the control of Government or implementing agency:
Hurricane Mitch damaged substantially the highway system of Guatemala and created the need for
additional expert works and repairs to machinery and equipment, requiring re-allocation of loan funds
and the final postponement of the loan closing date to December 31, 1999 (Para. 4.2).
9



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project cost details are given in Annex 2a (Project Costs by Component), Annex 2b (Project Costs by
Procurement) and Annex 2c (Project Financing by Component). The final cost of the project is
US$38.97 million against US$49.1 million estimated at appraisal (and reformulation). The Bank loan
contributed to US$25.35 million of the project cost against US$31.5 million estimated at appraisal
(and reformulation). As for the project cost split in respect of method of procurement, the major
portion remained International Competitive Bidding (US$32.48 million or 83%), the remaining being
National Competitive Bidding which accounted for the remaining cost of US$6.5 million (17%). The
major reason for the reduction in project cost was the elimination of the Los Encuentros - Cuatro
Caminos component from the project (Para. 5.2).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Highly likely. The objectives of the project were achieved in a large measure (Para. 4.1), and the
project had a sustainable effect on transport investment planning. The DGC was strengthened in the
field of planning and in addition to the highways rehabilitated, engineering designs were completed
for over 580 km in addition to the targets foreseen in the reformulated project. The utilization of the
private sector has been firmly established, and at the time of completion of the project, 100% of the
major road works are executed by the private sector as well as almost 75% of the road maintenance
works. The capacity for planning and policy making of the MICIVI was improved with the
development of the National Transport Plan for the period 1995-2015 and with the implementation of
the HDM-III model.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements to regular operation are well in place with the (i) the development of the
planning capacities of DGC for the road sub-sector and the MICIVI for the Transport sector, and (ii)
the effective utilization of the private sector in public works and maintenance works. It is however,
essential that the process of institutional strengthening of the DGC and MICIVI be maintained and
continued, as also the effectiveness of the Fondo Vial, for highway maintenance.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending.
Satisfactory. The project originated from the lessons learned from the previous project (Loan 1846-
GU) pointing to the principal objectives being strengthening of the capability of DGC and MICIVI as
well as the implementation of a rehabilitation program for the road network consistent with the
economic changes facing the country. The Bank collaborated with the Government of Guatemala in
the preparation of the project together with the UNDP consultants, and this work included: (i) the
10



evaluation of the technical, economic and environmental effects of the various sub-projects and the
development of the Action Plan to maximize the impact of the project; and (ii) the Bank
encouragement to the personnel of DGC and MICIVI to partake in training courses in procurement,
disbursement and administrative work to strengthen the abilities of the staff and managers.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. With over 150 staff weeks (see Annex 4b) spent on supervision, the Bank appears to have
spent adequate manpower on supervision, and supervision reports indicate considerable attention to
detail during field missions. Bank staff maintained the integrity of the project through the initial delays
and its reformulation. Moreover, the Bank particularly helped the Governnent of Guatemala after
Hurricane Mitch in reallocation of funds to rehabilitate damaged machinery and to deepen some of the
ongoing contracts to take care of the damages sustained during the hurricane. In addition, the Bank
made 3 amendments to the Action Plan on the basis of the recommendations of the technical
assistance for the institutional strengthening of the DGC. The Bank also assisted actively in the
preparation of information for the Implementation Completion Report.
Borrower
7.3 Preparation
Satisfactory. The participation of the Borrower during the preparation of the project was substantial,
and the assistance of consultants was liberally utilized in analyzing projects. The Borrower's
contribution in project preparation was satisfactory. During the later stages of project implementation
there is evidence of even deeper participation by the DGC and the various agencies of the
Government.
7.4 Government Implementation Performance
Satisfactory. The Government pushed for the achievement of the objectives of the project and put its
weight behind the implementation of the institutional changes and privatization of works and
maintenance of roads. Government procedures in approval of the project and loan however proved
dilatory and resulted in delays in the approval of the project and in the need for project reformulation
after a hiatus of nearly five years (Para. 5.1)
7.5 Government Implementation Performance
Satisfactory. The Government pushed for the achievement of the objectives of the project and put its
weight behind the implementation of the institutional changes and the privatization of works and
maintaining of roads.
7.6 Implementing Agency
Satisfactory. Generally, the project was well executed by the Borrower, and competently reported,
with detailed reports. The misprocurement case (Para. 5.2) is attributed by the Borrower to
unfamiliarity with Bank International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. The seriousness of
11



changing an award unilaterally by the Government, however, after a No Objection from the Bank to
award the contract to a different bidder represented institutional weaknesses and warranted a
declaration of misprocurement. The cancellation of the relevant portion of the loan and the deletion of
the sub-project concerned from the project were, therefore, well justified.
7. 7 Overall Borrower Performance
Satisfactory. Participation of the Borrower in the implementation of the project progressively
strengthened as project progressed, through: (i) the experience gained by working with consultants;
(ii) some of the training courses imparted by the Bank; (iii) the institutional strengthening of the
DGC; (iv) the development of the National Transport Plan; and (v) progression in private sector
participation. Overall, therefore, the Borrower's performance can be regarded as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned as a result of the implementation of the project can be summarized as follows:
Timing of Impacts of Institutional Reforms vs. Physical Investments
The results of the investments were visible almost immediately following the completion of the works.
Traffic volumes increased at rates significantly higher than those forecasted during project
reformulation. On the other hand, the results of the institutional reforms, as expected, have taken
longer to appear, as the proposed changes had to go through a process of acceptance and
understanding by project managers so that they could be applied properly. However the impact of the
institutional changes, although slow in taking effect, has been increasingly positive (Para. 4.2).
Level of Management Support Required for Effective Institutional Change
The time required to implement institutional reforms under the project confirms the need for total
support from the upper level management and the govemment to the institutional strengthening
process. Although the support provided by the MICIVI and the DGC is considered adequate, it was
evident during project implementation that any attempt to improve or modify current processes and
practices requires the total support of the authorities in order to facilitate the implementation of new
standards, to identify strategies and adequate policies for action, and above all, to minimize the
negative effects of the changes in procedures and practices.
Private Sector Participation
The outsourcing of road maintenance work to the private sector was eminently successful in this
project. This, together with the improvements in the administration of the road network achieved
under the project, resulted in a rapid increase in the percentage of the paved network in good
condition, from 20% to 89%. A significant feature of the outsourcing of road maintenance activities
(Para. 4.1) is that this change was accomplished directly, without any tentative experimentation, in a
positive manner that brought about quick results.
12



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S REPORT
The Spanish text below is followed by an extract in English.
PROGRAMA DE REHABILITACION DE CAMINOS SECUNDARIOS Y REGIONALES
(Prestamo BIRF 3002-GU)
Introducci6n
La ejecuci6n del proyecto tuvo lugar en un periodo de reformas economicas y modernizaci6n del
Estado, en el que la principal actividad del Gobierno estuvo dirigida a la reducci6n del tamafno del
Estado, concretandose a realizar inversiones publicas, dejando las areas financieras y productivas al
sector privado de la economia, privatizando, la Empresa Nacional de Aviaci6n -AVIATECA-, la
empresa de Ferrocarriles de Guatemala -FEGUA-, la Empresa Electrica Guatemalteca -EGGSA- y la
Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones -GUATEL-, que por sus caracteristicas de ser
empresas estatales altamente rentables eran demandadas urgentemente por el sector privado.
De igual forma, la tendencia del Estado de reducir el gasto puiblico, motiv6 a que el entonces
Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Transporte y Obras Puiblicas, redefiniera sus funciones y actividades
principales, siendo en la actualidad el Ministerio responsable del sector Comunicaciones,
Infraestructura y Vivienda.
Con relaci6n al sector Transporte, particularmente el sector Transporte por Carretera, el Ministerio de
Comunicaciones, Infraestructura y Vivienda (MICIVI), a traves de la Direcci6n General de Caminos
(DGC), es el responsable del mantenimiento, construcci6n, mejoramiento y rehabilitaci6n de la red de
carreteras en el pais, formulando estrategias y politicas de desarrollo, pudiendose mencionar que
durante el iltimo quinquenio la politica de desarrollo estuvo dirigida a motivar la participaci6n del
sector privado en la ejecuci6n de las actividades de mantenimiento rutinario, ampliaci6n y
rehabilitaci6n de la red vial.
Objetivos del Programa
En el entorno indicado, los principales objetivos del Programa estaban dirigidos a: (a) fortalecer la
capacidad operativa y de gesti6n de la DGC; (b) rehabilitar y mejorar caminos secundarios y
regionales deteriorados; (c) promover el papel del sector privado en la ejecuci6n de obras ptblicas; y
(d) asistir al MICIVI para mejorar su capacidad de planificaci6n y formulaci6n de politicas en materia
de transporte.
Es importante indicar que los objetivos del Programa fueron alcanzados en gran porcentaje,
pudiendose mencionar que a) se fortaleci6 la capacidad operativa y de gesti6n de la DGC,
particularmente en las areas de planificaci6n (se obtuvo un banco de proyectos y estudios que fueron
sometidos a diferentes instituciones financieras para su ejecuci6n; 580 Km. de disefio de ingenieria
13



fueron obtenidos por encima de la meta original), b) se rehabilit6 la meta en kilometros propuesta
originalmente en materia de caminos secundarios y regionales, c) el sector privado ejecuta el 100% de
las actividades de obra puiblica y casi el 75% de las actividades de mantenimiento; d) Se mejor6 la
capacidad de planificaci6n y formulacion de politicas del MICIVI (Se cuenta con un Plan Maestro
Nacional de Transporte para el periodo 1996-2015 y su actualizaci6n con un Plan de Desarrollo Vial
2000 - 2010).
Principales experiencias y resultados obtenidos durante la implantaci6n del Programa
El Programa facilit6 la rehabilitaci6n y mejoramiento de aproximadamente 130 Km. de carreteras
regionales y secundarias, asi como la construcci6n de mas de 400 metros de puentes en caminos
secundarios y terciarios, provocando un impacto econ6mico positivo, representado principalmente en
la reducci6n de los costos de operaci6n vehicular y la provisi6n de una permanente transitabilidad en
regiones de extrema pobreza, facilitando el ingreso de los principales servicios bAsicos como
educaci6n y salud, e incrementado las posibilidades de un desarrollo integral y sostenido de las
poblaciones beneficiadas. El Programa puede calificarse como "satisfactorio", habiendose alcanzado
la mayoria de los objetivos propuestos originalmente, pudiendose resumir los principales resultados
obtenidos, de la manera siguiente:
a) Precio de combustibles y sostenibilidad del mantenimiento: Con base en los resultados
propuestos por la Asistencia Tecnica dirigida a la implantaci6n de un sistema de administraci6n del
mantenimiento vial y de equipos, incluida en la presente operaci6n., el Gobiemo implement6 un fondo
privativo para el mantenimiento vial financiado con recursos permanentes provenientes del impuesto a
los combustibles, asi como la Unidad de Conservaci6n Vial (COVIAL), encargada de administrar
dichos recursos, lo cual permiti6 elevar el mantenimiento de la red vial a niveles que superan los
objetivos fijados en el Programa en ejecuci6n. COVIAL cuenta con un presupuesto anual asignado al
mantenimiento vial que alcanz6 en 1998 los US$80 Millones. Estos recursos permitieron que, en
1998, el estado de la condici6n superficial presentara que s6lo el 11% de la red vial pavimentada este
en mala condici6n mientras que el restante 89% se presenta en 6ptimas condiciones. Por aparte, la
creaci6n de COVIAL ha coadyuvado a la generaci6n de nuevas fuentes de empleo. Para 1999 se han
contratado mas de trescientas empresas privadas de mantenimiento, generando en el afio un total de
mas de 6,000 empleos directos y 30,000 empleos indirectos. El total de empleos por el Fondo Vial
desde su inicio es de 80,000 empleos generados.
b) Incorporacion del sector privado: La totalidad del presupuesto asignado a COVIAL es utilizado
por contrataci6n con el sector privado, como resultado de lo cual el 88% del total de egresos por
mantenimiento en 1998 fue realizado mediante contratos con el sector privado.
Por otra parte, es importante indicar que con base en las recomendaciones del Plan Maestro Nacional
de Transporte formulado en 1996 en el marco del Programa, se cre6 la Unidad de Concesiones y
Desincorporaci6n (UCD) del MICIVI, que tiene a su cargo el programa de concesiones para la
incorporaci6n del sector privado en la construcci6n de carreteras. A la fecha, se ha otorgado la
concesi6n de la autopista Palin-Escuintla y se ha propuesto iniciar una segunda fase del Programa.
c) Planeaci6n y programaci6n de Carreteras: Como resultado de la implementaci6n del modelo
HDM para asistir en la formulaci6n de programas de inversi6n vial plurianuales bajo restricciones
presupuestarias, la DGC ha desarrollado una buena capacidad en la evaluaci6n economica de
proyectos de carreteras, asi como en la formulaci6n de programas de mantenimiento. El trabajo de
14



planificaci6n ha sido expandido y fortalecido en las areas de formulaci6n de programas plurianuales
de desembolso, acompafiados por el desarrollo de sistemas de programaci6n y seguimiento en soporte
al mejor uso de los recursos. Los estudios de ingenieria preparados con fondos del Prestamo han sido
ejecutados en un 90% con financiamiento de Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo y del Banco
Centroamericano de Integraci6n Econ6mica.
d) Sistema de Seguimiento de Proyectos: Es importante indicar que gracias a la implementaci6n de
un sistema adecuado de seguimiento de proyectos, asi como a las diferentes politicas y estrategias
propuestas durante el uiltimo quinquenio, la DGC ha implantado en mas de un 80% los diferentes
planes de inversi6n propuestos por el Plan Maestro Nacional de Transporte para el periodo 1995-2015,
por lo que en julio de 1999 se formul6 un nuevo Plan de Desarrollo Vial para el periodo 2,000 - 2,010,
mismo que contempla una actualizaci6n de los planes de inversi6n previstos, al tiempo de dirigir la
politica y estrategia de inversi6n en materia vial, el apoyo a la consolidaci6n de los diferentes
compromisos adquiridos con la firma de la paz (diciembre 1996) y el combate a la pobreza.
e) Eficiencia Institucional de la DGC: Con el prop6sito de dar cumplimiento a lo expuesto en el
Convenio de Prestamo BIRE 3002-GU, relacionado con la administracion del Programa, en 1993 se
crea dentro de la estructura organica de la Instituci6n, una Unidad Coordinadora de Programas que
mas tarde vendria a ser la Coordinadora General de Financiamiento Externo, misma que en la
actualidad tiene a su cargo la gesti6n, administraci6n y ejecuci6n de los diferentes proyectos que
contemplen una porci6n de financiamiento extemo.
Por aparte, los diferentes eventos de capacitaci6n y fortalecimiento institucional desarrollados en el
marco de la Categoria E: Capacitaci6n del presente Programa permitieron una definici6n mas estrecha
de las relaciones entre las diferentes unidades tecnicas y administrativas, definiendo responsabilidades
y procesos para coordinaci6n y seguimiento de los programas de inversiones.
De igual forma, como resultado de la implantaci6n de las recomendaciones emanadas de la Asistencia
Tecnica para reforzar los procedimientos de la DGC para la supervisi6n de obras, la Instituci6n ha
desarrollado una adecuada capacidad para controlar la calidad de diseflo, supervisi6n y ejecuci6n de la
obra civil, con personal de la DGC Ilevando a cabo las actividades de direcci6n y supervisi6n
indirecta, mientras que se otorgan a contrataci6n la mayoria de trabajos de disefno, formulaci6n de
estudios, ejecuci6n de obras y supervisi6n. Con la expansi6n de su programa de inversi6n y como
resultado de la exitosa gesti6n de financiamiento extemo, la DGC ha utilizado firmas consultoras y
contratistas privadas a nivel nacional e intemacional, para la preparaci6n de disefios y supervisi6n de
contratos de construcci6n en la mayoria de sus proyectos, especialmente aquellos financiados por las
instituciones financieras internacionales, habiendo adquirido vasta experiencia en la utilizaci6n de
modelos para la formulaci6n de documentos de licitaci6n y contratos.
Con relaci6n a las actividades de administraci6n financiera, en complemento a la implementaci6n del
Sistema de Informaci6n y Administraci6n Financiera (SIAF) propuesto por el Banco Mundial a nivel
nacional, durante 1999 la DGC implement6 un sistema de administraci6n general financiera, mismo
que permite llevar adecuada y satisfactoriamente una contabilidad de costos por proyecto, programa de
inversi6n y por tipo de actividad, generando la informaci6n requerida para alimentar el Programa
SIAF. En la actualidad la Divisi6n Financiera utiliza metodos modemos para el control de costos y ha
15



sido reforzada, en el marco de ejecuci6n del Prestamo BIRF 3002-GU, con equipo de c6mputo y
miscelaneo, asi como manuales de operaci6n.
En consideraci6n a la condici6n de la red vial, es importante indicar que la DGC cuenta con un
sistema de evaluaci6n de pavimentos desde 1997, mismo que provee de insumos para la alimentaci6n
del modelo HDM para la generaci6n de programnas de inversi6n y programas de mantenimiento
rutinario y peri6dico.
Papel del Banco
La identificaci6n del Programa se fundament6 en las lecciones aprendidas en la anterior operaci6n del
Banco en Guatemala (Prestamo BIRF 1846-GU), habiendo dirigido los principales objetivos hacia el
fortalecimiento de la capacidad ejecutora del MICIVI y de la DGC y la implantaci6n de un Programa
de Rehabilitaci6n de la Red Vial, que tuvo como fundamento principal, la formulaci6n de un Plan
Maestro Nacional de Transporte, que permitiera determinar las principales estrategias de inversi6n de
conformidad con los cambios econ6micos que el pais estaba enfrentando.
El Banco colabor6 con el Gobiemo de Guatemala en la preparacion del Prestamo contratando en 1992
a consultores internacionales para la reformulaci6n del Programa original. Estos consultores apoyaron
a la DGC en la definici6n de proyectos y componentes a ser incluidos, asi como a la evaluaci6n
t6cnica, econ6mica y ambiental del Programa. Ademas, el Banco mantuvo constante comunicaci6n
con el Prestatario, con el objeto de monitorear las acciones realizadas y actualizar el Plan de Acci6n
previsto al inicio del Programa, reorientando las actividades correspondientes, con el fin de lograr el
mayor impacto del Programa.
En la fase inicial de la etapa de implantaci6n, el Banco promovi6 la participaci6n del personal de la
DGC y del MICIVI en diferentes cursos de entrenamiento en materia de adquisiciones, desembolsos,
procedimientos administrativos, etc., con el objeto de fortalecer las habilidades administrativas del
personal.
AdemAs de las diferentes misiones de seguimiento, misiones anuales de evaluaci6n y medio termino
del Programa, el Banco proporcion6 apoyo al Gobiemo de Guatemala durante la emergencia
provocada por el Huracan Mitch en octubre/noviembre de 1998, permitiendo la reorientaci6n de
fondos remanentes en las operaciones existentes, asi como la posibilidad de ampliar los contratos de
obra existentes, con el objeto de dar respuesta inmediata a los desastres provocados en la red vial.
Para el caso del Prestamo BIRF 3002-GU, la reasignaci6n de fondos permiti6 iniciar un programa de
rehabilitaci6n del parque de maquinaria de la DGC, principalmente aquella que resultare averiada
durante la emergencia del Huracan Mitch.
Con relacion al Plan de Acci6n, El Banco aprob6 3 enriendas al Programa, mismas que fueron
originadas con base en las recomendaciones formuladas como resultado de las diferentes asistencias
tecnicas desarrolladas para el fortalecimiento institucional de la DGC. Finalmente, durante 1999
nuevamente se enmend6 el Programa, con el objeto de reasignar los remanentes existentes en el
Prestamo, asi como plasmar las modificaciones efectuadas en las categorias de inversi6n, como
resultado de la excepci6n aprobada por el Banco durante la emergencia de 1998 provocada por el
huracan Mitch.
16



Papel del Prestatario
El papel del Prestatario durante la fase de preparaci6n del Programa se puede clasificar como
"satisfactoria" en virtud de que si bien es cierto hubo participaci6n de un grupo consultor que apoy6 al
Gobierno en la preparaci6n del Plan de Implantaci6n, tambien se asign6 al proyecto personal de
contraparte que particip6 conjuntamente con el grupo consultor y el Banco en la formulaci6n el
Programa, particularmente en el establecimiento de objetivos, metas y definici6n de proyectos.
A partir de la entrada en vigencia del Prestamo y con la capacitaci6n proporcionada por el Banco, el
organismo ejecutor desarroll6 una mejor capacidad de ejecuci6n. No obstante, se pudo observar
algunas dificultades durante la etapa de implantaci6n de los procesos de gesti6n previa a la
contrataci6n de la obra civil, representados generalmente en la inexperiencia en el manejo de los
modelos estandar del Banco para la preparaci6n de documentos de licitaci6n y contrataci6n, asi como
en el conocimiento de los procedimientos de evaluaci6n y adjudicaci6n de obras, situaci6n que motiv6
al Banco, posterior a diferentes comunicaciones indicando la no conveniencia en la aplicaci6n de
procedimientos locales para la evaluaci6n de concursos intemacionales, a desobligar una porci6n del
prestarno dirigida a la rehabilitaci6n de obra civil sobre la ruta Centroamericana 1, en el tramo: Los
Encuentros - 4 Caminos.
Con la experiencia anterior, el Prestatario dirigi6 sus esfuerzos a la especializaci6n del personal que
tendria bajo su responsabilidad la administraci6n e implantaci6n del Programa, habiendose obtenido
en los posteriores procesos de adquisici6n mejores resultados en la contrataci6n de bienes y servicios,
representados en la reducci6n de tiempos de a) preparaci6n de documentos de licitaci6n, b) evaluaci6n
y adjudicaci6n de ofertas, c) contrataci6n de proyectos. De igual forma, la experiencia ganada con las
operaciones anteriores, permiti6 elevar el nivel en la formulaci6n de Terminos de Referencia para
contrataci6n de servicios de consultoria y preparaci6n de especificaciones tecnicas para la adquisici6n
de equipo.
Resumen de resultados
El Prestamo 3002 apoy6 el desarrollo de nuevas politicas en el sector transporte por carretera,
asistiendo al MICIVI y a la DGC en la formulacion de planes de inversi6n a corto, mediano y largo
plazo, integrando las actividades de planeaci6n, gesti6n y contrataci6n de bienes y servicios y
fortaleciendo los procesos de supervisi6n de obra civil y evaluaci6n, monitoreo y mitigaci6n del
impacto ambiental.
En general, los objetivos propuestos en el Informe de Evaluaci6n de Proyecto (Staff Appraisal Report)
de octubre 1988, fueron alcanzados. La obra civil ejecutada contribuy6 a la expansi6n y rehabilitaci6n
de la red vial nacional. Un analisis econ6mico de los proyectos de obra civil ejecutados han mostrado
un impacto positivo, con tasas internas de retorno por encima de las estimadas originalmente.
Operaciones futuras
Con el objeto de asegurar la sostenibilidad del proyecto, se requiere proporcionar un seguimiento a las
acciones emprendidas, pudiendose observar las recomendaciones siguientes: a) continuar con el
17



fortalecimiento institucional del MICIVI y de la DGC, b) establecer a nivel nacional la rectoria del
MICIVI con relaci6n al sector Transporte por Carretera, c) Institucionalizaci6n del Fondo de
Conservaci6n Vial para asegurar el mantenimiento de la obra civil rehabilitada, d) Incrementar la
calidad de los diseinos de ingenieria y asegurar la viabilidad econ6mica y ambiental de los proyectos
ENGLISH EXTRACT
Objectives
The objectives of the project were to: (a) strengthen the operating capacity of DGC, (b) rehabilitate
and improve the deteriorated secondary and regional roads, (c) promote the role of the private sector in
the execution of public works, and (d) assist MICIVI to improve its capacity for planning and
formulation of policies in transport.
The objectives proposed for the project were in general achieved. The DGC and MICIVI were both
strengthened and the personnel of the institutions were trained and introduced to new and modem
techniques of work.
Project Execution
As far as the project execution is concerned, the following was accomplished:
Secondary Roads:  Engineering designs for 342km  against 386km  planned. In civil works,
rehabilitation of 54km against 38km planned.
Regional Roads: Engineering designs for 750km against 125km programmed. In civil works,78km
against 96km programmed. The project for CAIW, Los Encuentros - Cuatro Caminos was disallowed
from the project (misprocurement) and only the branch CA2W Papoya - Nahualate plus some other
minor roads within the area of influence of this road were executed.
Bridges: 420m bridges constructed as against 41 5m proposed earlier.
Equipment: All the machinery and plant planned for procurement was bought, taking into account the
additional requirements imposed by Hurricane Mitch.
Training: Originally US$1 million was allotted for training in 1994-1999 but due to shortage of funds
the amount was reduced and the work executed with IDB funds to achieve the desired results.
Technical Assistance: The program was executed satisfactorily although with some delays caused by
the association of UNDP. The following components were included:
*  A National Transport Plan was made together with a strategy for implementation for the years
1996-2015, which is under implementation;
*  Model HDM-III was implemented for pluriannual plans.
* A system of follow up projects was implemented.
* A satisfactory system of supervision of works and contracts was introduced in the DGC.
* COVIAL (Unit for Conservation of Highways) was set up with funds from fuel taxes.
18



* COVIAL funds were utilized for promoting contracts through the private sector, utilizing
almost 88% of the funds for maintenance through the private sector.
Role of the Bank
The Bank cooperated with the Government of Guatemala in the preparation of the project financed by
the Bank Loan and this was done with assistance from international consultants (UNDP). The project
helped strengthen the DGC and MICIVI and enabled to make a program for the rehabilitation of the
highways, and helped formulate a National Transport Plan.
Role of the Borrower
The Borrower's role can be classified as "satisfactory". The Borrower's contribution to the project was
substantial and the participation of the Borrower in the implementation of the project gradually
strengthened as the project progressed. There was some difficulty in implementing international
bidding procedures resulting in cancellation of part of the loan.
Future Operations
To maintain the improvements generated by the project it is necessary to: (a)  continue    the
strengthening of MICIVI and DGC; (b) establish the authority of MICIVI over the Highway Transport
at the national level; (c) institutionalize the COVIAL; (d) continue the improvement in the engineering
designs of the highways and ensure their economic and environmental viability.
Lessons Learned
The reforrns initiated do not produce imnmediate results.
The Government needs to support the changes proposed.
There is a need to learn the World Bank procurement procedures.
19



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Projected in        Actual/Latest
Indicator                   Reformulation Document       Estimate
Component A
Engineering Designs (km)                                386.70                341.06
RN7W, Chiantla - Sacapulas                               58.00
RN7E, San Julian - Panzos                                89.10                89.10
RN1 8, San Jose Pinlua - Metaquescuintla                 55.60
RN7E, Panzos - el Estor                                  44.70                44.70
RN9, Desvio Todos Santos - Santa Eulalia                 61.30
RN9, Chiantla - Desvio Todos Santos                      21.00
RN 14, Escuintla - Antigua Guatemala                     38.00                38.00
RN 14, Antigua Guatemala - Chimaltenango                 19.00                29.00
RD SM 2, San Sebastian - Tejutla (9km)                                         9.00
RN12, San Sebastian - Tacana(51.36)                                           51.36
RN 1, San Juan Ostuncalco - San Marcos (32.28)                                32.20
OITO 180, Quetzalt. - Las Rosas-Ent.; CA2, Occidente                          47.70
Rehabilitation/Improvement (km)
Escuintla - Antigua Guatemala                            38.00
RN I, San Juan Ostancalco - San Marcos                                        53.78
Component B
Engineering Designs (km)                                 125.45               737.00
CA2W, Retalhuleo=- Coatepeque                            51.10                39.60
CA I W, Tecpan - Chupol                                  21.00                22.70
CA 1W, Chupol - Los Encuentros                           18.50                 16.80
RNI, San Juan Osuncalco - San Marcos (32.28km)           34.85
CA2W, Escuintla - Popoya                                                      43.57
CA2W, Nahualate - Desvio a Ratalnules                                         35.79
CA9S, Guatemala - Palin                                                       54.00
CA2W, Coatepeque - Tecun Limon                                                33.00
RN 1, Cuatro Caminos - Totonicapan                                             12.00
CA 1W, San Lucas - Chimaltenango - Tecpan                                     70.50
CAI W, Cuatro Caminos - Huehuetenango                                         69.42
CAIW, Huehuetenango - La Mesilla (84.36km)                                    84.36
CA 14, El Rancho - Coban                                                      131.13
CA 13, La Ruidosa - Modesto Mendez                                            72.43
CA 1 E, Juiapa - San Cristobal Frontera                                       51.70
20



Rehabilitation/Improvement (km)                       96.65               77.70
Los Encuentros - 4 Caminos                            61.80
Popoya - Nahualate                                    34.85               77.70
Component C
Bridges (linear meters)                               415.00              421.10
Component D
Maintenance Equipment (units)                         46.00               49.00
Tipplers                                              14.00                14.00
Crawler Tractor                                        8.00                8.00
Front Loaders                                          8.00                8.00
2,000 gal. Oil Tanks                                   3.00                3.00
Pick-up 4x4 I ton                                      8.00                9.00
Minivan 4x4 5 passengers                               1.00                3.00
Elevator Trucks                                        4.00                4.00
Miscellaneous Equipment (US$'000)                     790.00              235.00
Rehabilitation of Machinery (US$'000)                                     1520.00
21



Annex 1A. Implementation of Action Plan
Step                     Subject                      Original    Revised       Final
No.                                                    Date        Date         Date
I     Submit to the Bank a Transport Plan including a
program for implementation of policies for the period   06/01/95  02/96   02/96
1996-2000.
2     Implementation of the programs of the National
Transport Plan (dates as detailed in the plan  01/01/96-    01/01/96-    07/01/96-
programs)                                       12/31/00    12/31/00     12/31/00
3     Contract consultants
(a) for parts F.1 and F.2 of project, covering bridge    01/01/94  11/96  12/96
evaluation, HDM model, and monitoring           08/01/94     04/99        04/97
investments.
(b) to implement the recommendations of the
consultants.
4     Incorporate the PCU into the permanent structure of
the DGC with functions and personnel satisfactory to   01/01/96  06/96    06/96
the Bank.
5     Adoption of cost accounting systems and
computerized systems in DGC                     02/01/95      02/97       07/99
6     Implementation of the recommendations of the study
in part F.3 of project, covering DGC's procedures for   06/01/95  07/97   07/97
works supervision.
7     Acquire equipment for the purpose of Section 3.12 of
the Loan Agreement, covering vehicle dimensions  04/01/94     07/97       N/A 2
and axle-load limitations.
8     Implementation of the recommendations of
evaluation of pavements.                         04/95       07/97        08/98
9     Strengthen the training department of DGC with
functions and resources including personnel     01/01/96      07/97       N/A 3
acceptable to the Bank.
'' Consultants engaged in 1/94 and work completed in 12/96.
2/ Not implemented because of change in policy, resulting in concessioning of services and contracting of private sector.
3/ Not implemented because of change in policy, resulting in reduction of staff and engagement of private sector for
training purposes.
22



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 1: Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Reformulation   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate      Reformulation
Project Cost By Component               US$ million      US$ million
Secondary Road Rehabilitation and         14.14            12.20            86.3
Improvement
Regional Road Rehabilitation and         22.03             15.23            69.1
Strengthening
Construction of Bridges and Secondary     1.50             4.17             278
Roads
Maintenance and Miscellaneous Equipment   4.00             4.48             112
Training Program                          1.00             0.38             38
Technical Assistance and Studies          1.98             2.51             127
Total Baseline Cost                       44.65            38.97
Physical Contingencies                   2.30
Price Contingencies                      2.16
Total Project Costs               49.11            38.97
Table 2: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Reformulation Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                ICB              NCB           Total Cost
1. Works                                   35.86             1.50            37.36
(24.66)          (0.90)          (25.56)
2. Goods                                    3.19             0.81            4.00
(2.38)           (0.81)          (3.19)
3. Services                                 6.95             0.80            7.75
(1.95)           (0.80)          (2.75)
Total                                   46.00             3.11            49.11
(28.99)          (2.51)          (31.50)
23



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 3: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      ICB                 NCB             Total Cost
1. Works                                           18.94               4.17               23.11
(18.94)              (0.00)            (18.94)
2. Goods                                           2.78                 1.70               4.48
(2.78)              (0.00)             (2.78)
3. Services                                        10.76               0.63               11.39
._________________________________           (3.63)              (0.00)             (3.63)
Total                                          32.48                6.50               38.98
______________________________________            (25.35)        -     (0.00)       -     (25.35)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
24



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 4: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                  Appraisal      Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
Bank    Govt.   Bank   Govt.  Bank   Govt.
Secondary Roads Rehabilitation and    8.48    5.66    7.32    4.88    86.3   86.2
Improvement
Altiplano Road Rehabilitation and    13.22    8.81    9.14    6.09    69.1   69.1
Strengthening                                                                      l
Construction of Bridges               0.90    0.60    2.50    1.67   277.8  278.3
Maintenance and Miscellaneous         3.96    0.04    3.90    0.58    98.5   1450
Equipment
Training Program                      0.20    0.80    0.35    0.04   175.0   5.0
Technical Assistance and Studies      1.78    0.20    2.14    0.37   120.2  185.0
Physical Contingencies                1.38    0.91
Price Contingencies                   1.58    0.58
TOTAL                                31.50    17.60   25.34   13.63   80.4   77.4
25



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost Benefit Analysis Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis
Latest
IRR/NPV (in US$ millions)                        Appraisal        Estimates
a. Secondary Roads Rehabilitation and Improvement  12.70/0.2       31.90/7.9
b. Regional Roads Rehabilitation and Strengthening  33.10/10.60   67.50/46.40
26



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle   Count      No. of Persons and    Implementation Development
Month/Year                               Specialty           Progress     Objective
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS,             Performance
etc.)                           Rating
Identification/Preparation   2    1 Eng, 1 E
July 1985
January 1986                  2    l Eng, I E
May 1986                      1   1 Eng                   _
February 1987                 2    1 Eng, 1 E
June/July 1987                4   1 Eng, 1 E, 1 TP, 1 TS
Appraisal/Negotiation
September 1987                5    1 Eng, 1 E, 1 Fin, 1
.   TP, I Con
April 1988                    1   1 E
Supervision
January 1989                  2   2 E
May 1989                      2   2 E
October 1989                  1   1 E
June 1992                     1   1 Eng
October 1992                      1 Eng                   _ 
December 1992                 1   1 Eng
January 1993                  4   1 Eng, 1 L, 2 Con
(Reformulation of Project)
July 1993                        __1 Eng
November 1993                 4   1 Eng, 1 E, 1 F, 1 Con        S             S
February 1994                 4   1 Eng, 1 E, 1 F, 1 Con        S             S
May 1994                      3   1 Eng, 1 E, I Con                           S
October 1994                      1 Eng           _             S             S
May 1995                      2   1 Eng, I Con                  S             S
August 1995                   2   1 Eng, I Con                  S             S
March 1996                    2   1 Eng, I E                    S             S
June 1996                     2   1 Eng, I E                    S             S
August 1996                   2   1 Eng, 1 E                   HS             S
May 1997                          1 Eng                                       S
July 1997                     3   1 Eng, I E, I Con             S             S
February 1998                 2   1 Eng, I Con                  S             S
July 1998                 _ 1   1 Eng                           S             S
27



ICR
October 1998                     1    1 Eng                           S               S
March 1999                       2    1 Eng, I Con                    S               S
December 1999                    2    1 Eng, 1 Con                    S               S
January 2000                     1    1 Con                           S               S
Eng = Engineer, E = Economist, TP = Transport Planner, TS = Transport Specialist, Fin = Financial Expert, Con
Consultant, L = Legal, F = Financial Analyst.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation          36.6                      60.2
Appraisal/Negotiation               34.8                     135.0
Supervision                        150.4                     401.0
ICR                                  10.0                     15.0
Total                              231.8                     611.2
28



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Sector Policies                         SU
Physical                                SU
Financial                               NA
Institutional Development               H
Environmental                           M
Social                                  NA
Private sector development              H
Public sector management                SU
29



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                      Rating
Lending                                   S
Supervision                               S
Overall                                  S
62 Borrower performance                  Rating
Preparation                               S
Government implementation performance    S
Implementation agency performance         S
Overall                                  S
30



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report No. 7133-GU. October 31, 1998.
Report on Reformulation of the Project. May 17, 1993.
Loan Agreement: Loan 3002-GU. May 21, 1993.
Amendment I to Loan Agreement. October 31, 1994.
Amendment 2 to Loan Agreement. December 4, 1996.
Amendment 3 to Loan Agreement. September 9, 1997.
Ex-Post Economic Evaluation: Popoya-Nahualate
Ex-Post Economic Evaluation: San Juan Ostuncalco-San Marcos
Borrower's Report (Full Text)
31






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30951
92.                                                                                                                                       60~                             P.p,1n~
M              E X I C                                                                                                                                                               BELIZE                            .                       =, tb
16-                                         j 
,.,  /       o                                                                                                                                                                                                       26~  0i' i  -_
j             ~~~Sun Mol- -1ato                                                                                                                                       WM.n.    \LvrSS
T. T-la    i           e4-4 0lSs\,                                                                                                                                                                                               ,      ;,>
t    /   t osM Eulabg  Bridge Program  \         .JE PUERTO BARRIOS
(23 bridges consEructed)                                      So T0.. 6
Os. h  C...]                                                                     C,
i \ E 1 9 Papoli66 _6  -~ J    f                                                                      ' ocs  HONDURAS
\  lFchldoon o a    Teluda   q             \    ~~~0-                                                . i       %                                                          /
li"CuucOSALAM DE   ICH                            _-p
MA COS                                                                                                                                                                PA   J O  /  So 6911 ZACA  8    SECONDARY AND REGIONAL
Ta Tap          c            h.               E R. d o  t2 San~ C r       itbl TTNIAN /   Aog=sln
C_  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
T. TopoIoS. J1
ToTopachala  (  ; g  ->Cbicoo  f )         \7                            Jilatepaque   (SanRotunda         a n0  CH(QUIM                                                /J                                       PROJECTSROADS/RIDGES
0161CC 1     CdINTE pla              vs       _tdsal         }PaptI\)Tep                               oomlm                                                  ',                                                            kREGIONAILROADS
Cd T.~~~~~,                                                                              'N~~~~~pA,                                        S    LVA DO                                            _ _ _ _ _ _
|t ANGA < \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDAIWAHRY ROADS
1 TEER~LA,   uooo,                                                                                            066 -'                                                     1 I                                                              ISmpBqcg  2  30    40,  A    MAA CIT  EXISATINGTERATURLIES O
_ s66 i                                                                        SI56J f9                                               0/b;                                                                                                     I          I<  /                I    u m l       >Jrz  /h a    vdr,*.  ERE
E   1 6                           PAVED5  5 R      6OADSI
td                               0Q'                            e-g/ 0 n",b'E    SA LV-O                                                                                                                                           o B7o              3       0    iimtr
EA(OF{ c        .6 c                     PA  CIlFIC          ;C:EATN   -                         :.nS tti.t;                            Ri RAau/                                                                                       Ths-.Ps 6,d^lnQP  Xduo,. 0h,66166
O L.gAf0# 0, >; -eASA~~NhfA,:,:2. ,do sb _rh                                                                                                                                                 Qldbn
OC: A                    N0Iyt                                                                                                                                                                                                         660600,, oop \       o      , Wod 60E r  N  CAPITAL
JUTAP                                                                             INTERNATIONALAIRPOR



