Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IA! Xo2t2Z 
Report No. 7133-GU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD R.FHABILITATION PROJECT
GUATEMALA
October 31, 1988
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restdidd distrbdon and may be used by redpies ondy In the perfonmance of
their officha duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authoizaion.



Currency Eauivalents
Currency Unit                 - Quetsal
US$                           a  Q. 2.7
Q.10                          - US$3.7
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Units of Weight and Measures: Metric System
Metric                       British/US Eauivalent
1 meter (m)                        -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                   -  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                    -  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)               -  2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
AADT                           a Average Annual Daily Traffic
AASHTO                         - American Association of State
Highway and Transport Officials
AVIATECA                       a Guatemalan Aviation Company
CABEI                          -  Central Auerican Bank for
Economic Integration
CACM                           -  Central American Common Market
SEGAPLAN                       -  Economic Planning Secretariat
DGC                            - General Directorate of Roads
DGT                            -  General Directorate of Transport
EPNSTC                         -  Port Authority of Santo Tomas de
Castilla
FEGUA                          -  Guatemalan Railway Company
FYDEP                          - National Enterprise for Economic
Growth and Development of the Peten
HDM                            - Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IDB                            -  Inter-American Development Bank
INTA                           -  Institute for Agrarian Reform
MCTOP                          - Ministry of Communications,
Transport and Public Works
OPE                            - UNDP's Office for Project Execution
UNDP                           m United Nations Development Program
USAID                          -  United States Agency for
International Development



FOR OmCUL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
I.    PROJECT SU1MARY.......................... ............       1
II.   THE TRANSPORT SECTORe .................. .. . ...... ... . ..   3
A.  Transport Development and the Economy  ........          .... 3
8. Main Ise ...........................                      5
(i)   Transport Sector Mbnagement...................       5
(is) Fuel Pricing and Cost Recovery from Road
6
(ili)   Road Planning and Progruuuing................        7
(iv)   DGC's Institutional Efficiency...............        8
C.  Government Program in the Road Subsector.........        9
D.  Bank Sector Assistance Strategy..................       12
S.  Bank Involvement In the Sector...................       13
III.  THE PROJECT AND THE ACTION PLAN......................       14
A.  Project Origin and Objectives ................... .     14
B.  Project Components ..... .......... o0*00***  *000...   14
;i)  Secondary Road Rehabilitation and Improvement        14
(ii)   Altiplano Road Rehabilitation and
Strengthenig .......................................  15
I(it)   Construction of Bridges for Secondary and
Tertiary Roads.o..o........... *06**0##60*#00      16
(iv)   Road Maintenance and Miscellaneous Equipment.       16
(v)   Traiingo......o             ooo................o...........  16
(vi)   Technical-Assistance and Studies...  ........       17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Guatemala during September 1987. The mission comprised Messrs. Pedro
Geraldea (Task Manager, LA3IE), Jorge Lanas (LA3IE), Ricardo Xlockner
(LA2IE), and Dorian Villalba (Consultant). The mission was assisted in
matters related to training by Mr. Luis Pisani (LATHR).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



Pham No.
C.  Project Cost and Financing ............................. 18
D. Action Plan, 1988-1994...........................          20
E. Economic Evaluation         ....... . . . .....*.. 21
F. Environmental Impacto         ...............             ............. 23
G. Assessment of Risk ...... ........................06       23
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONe.. ..o.... .  o.......o.. ... ............ . 24
A.  Status of Project Preparation.....................        24
B. Project Execution,....................... ................. 24
Co Procurement......................................          25
D. Disbursements and Audits......o....... . ...........       28
E. Annual Consultations and Project Monitoring......          29
V.  RECOKM0KATIONSo........................o.. .. ..o.o..........o.. 30
TABLES
2.1 Cqmposition of Main Exports (1979-1986) ............. *         34
2.2 Central Government Expenditure in Transport
(1979-1986) .................................................. -35
2.3  OustemsI&'s load Ne twork (1986) ......................        36
2.4  Evolution of the Road Network under DGC (1976-1986)..          37
2.5 Road Condition Survey (1986) .........................          38
2.6  Priec Structure of Automotive Fuels..................          39
2.7  Revenues from Taxes Levied on Users of the National
Road Network and DGC's Expenditures (1986)..........          40
2.8 DOC's Expenditure and Funding Program       ...............     41
2.9  Economic Formulation of the Road Maintenance and
Paving Strategy-          ........          .......           43
3.1 Secondary Road Rehabilitation and Improvement
Component* .... oo ............................................. 44
3.2 Altiplano Road Rehabilitation and Strengthening
Component-o.o .... o.o......................................... o45
3.3  Design Standards for Project Roads...................          46
3.4 Tentative List of Bridges .......    ....................       47
3.5  Tentative List and Cost of Equipment Component .......         48
3.6  Summary of Training Component Costs ..................         49
3.7 Summary of Technical Assistance and Studies
Component ...........................................   .    .......... 50
3.8 Results of Economic Analysis ........................           51
4.1  Services under the Administrative Agent ..............         53
4.2 Tentative Project Implementation Schedule ...........           54
4.3 Allocation of Loan Proceeds........................... .        57
4.4  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements..................          58



Pate No.
1. Transport Sector Background......................                 59
2.  Cost Recovery from Road Users........................            63
3. Road Adw4nistration ......................... .........           65
4.  Economic Analyse....................................eo           69
5. Trainiag Progr         ....................................       74
6. Tochalcal Assistance Program ................                     77
7. Action Plan (1988-1994) ..............................            79
8. DGC'. Progrm Targets (1988-1994)....................              83
9. Accounting and Audittng         .....................             84
10. Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project                            Fl ........ -85
CEARTS
I   -  Organization of MCTOP   .............................         87
II  -  Orgsniaation of DGC ...............................           88
III -  Orgsnization of DGC's Maintenanco Dfrectorsto.....*           89
MP      '
IBRD 20843R - Guatemala - Secondary and Regional Road Rehabilitation Project



GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers              The Republic of Guatemala
Loan Amounts          US$31.5 million equivalent
Termss                Repayit t in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Executing     Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public
Agency:                Works (MCTOP)
Project Descriptions  The proposed project consists of an investment component
to be financed under the loan, and of an institutional
development Action Plan. The investment component would
comprise (C of total project cost in parenthesis):
(a) civil works for the rehabilitation And improvement of
a about 390 km of secondary earth roads nationwide (292) and
of about 180 km of paved roads in the Altiplano Region
(37?), and. consultant services for the associated
construction supervision-¢5X) and for engineering design
of 590 km of secondary earth roads (2?) and of 200 ka of
paved roads in the Altiplano (2Z); (b) construction of
about 500 a of labor-intensive small bridges for the
secondary and tertiary road networks (4?); (c) provision
of road maintenance, training and miscellaneous equipment
(15?); (d) training program for road staff (2?); and
Ce) technical assistance and studies (4X). Under the
Action Plan, the project would help to accomplish the
following objectives: (a) improvement of the efficiency of
the highway subsector institutions, including measures to
strengthen the General Directorate of Roads' (DGC)
capabilities to manage an expanded investment program,
increase the cost-effectiveness of road maintenance
operations, and extend personnel training efforts; and
(b) strengthening of transport management and policy
making at the level of MCTOP, through actions related to
the preparation of the National Transport Plan, and
implementation of its recommendations, and to ensuring
adequate cost-recovery from road users.
Benefitst             Quantifiable project benefits would accrue to the economy
at large, mostly through reduced road transport costs, but
with a spatial focus in rural areas and in the Altiplano
region in support of increased agricultural production and
export diversification. Although difficult to quantify,
other project benefits would be associated with improved
resource allocation and use in the highway subsector, as a
result of technical assistance and training to be provided
under the loan. The project would also have a
considerable direct employment impact, estimated at an



yearly average of about 1,100 non-skilled jobs during the
project execution period.
Risks:                  The main uncertainty is related to possible delays or
failure In implementing some of the measures in the Action
Plan. The strong commitment shown prior to appraisal by
the present administration, when it took decisive action
to strengthen the role of MCTOP in sector management,
suggest that this risk is small. There are no major
technical risks or environmental Impact associated with
the civil works envisaged. In order to account for
unezpected delays during project execution, the
Implementation schedule has been set in line with the
standard disbursement profile for highway projects in LAC.
Estimated Ceos             t            Foin         To
Secondary Road Rehabilltation
and Improvement            0.3          7.5          13.8
Altiplano Road Rehabilitation
and Strengthening          6.2          12.2         17.4
Construction of 8ridgs for
Secondary Roads            9.7           1.1          1.8
Maintenance, Training and
Miacllsneous Equlpmnt     9.S          6.S          9.8
Training Progrm             0.4           .4 
Technical Assistance and Studies 9.7     1.1           1.8
Total S ss Coat /         13.6         29.S         41.9
Physical Contingencies      1.2          2.1           1.8
Price Contingencies         1.8          2.6 C.9
Total Cost 2/              16.1        8A8.         49.1
Financing Plan
Government                 19.1          1.5          17.6
Proposed IBRD Leon          -           $1.5         $1.5
Total Financina           16.1          88.9         49.1
1/  At Jul 1918 prices.
Identilable taxes are about US.!2 mIllton no duties apply to
equTpment tt a to be imported under the project.
Estimated IBRD Disbursements (US$ million) 1/
IBRD FY                     1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual                       9.3    8.7    6.3    4.7    2.2    0.3
Cumulative                   9.3   18.0   24.3   29.0   31.2   31.5
1/ Retroactive financing of US$1.5 million to be provided for all project
expenditures incurred after April 15, 1988.
Rate of Return:    The economic rate of return for the civil works components
(78Z of total project costs), including physical
contingencies, engineering desig.' and construction
supervision, is 28Z; individual returns for the various
components range from 32% to a minimum of 122.
Mav:IBRD 20843 - Guatemala-Secondary and Pegional Road Rehabilitation Project



- 3 -
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Transport Develooment and the Economy
2.01     During the 1970's the Guatemalan economy grew at a steady and
substantial rate, averaging 61 per year. Growth declined thereafter as a
result of unfavorable oxternal conditions and of the lack of appropriate
economic policies. In the 1980-85 period, GDP fell at an average annual
rate of 1.41. Prospects for regaining economic growth look more favorable
now, in view of the stabilization program Initiated by the civilian
Government elected in 1986.  The recovery effort adequately stresses
export promotion and diversification and this will lead to renewed claims
on the country's transport sector. The growth of high value manufactured
exports to the overseas markets and to the nearby Central American
countries will put a premium on good quality transport services,
particularly In the main external trade corridors.
2.02     The pattern of transport demand for exports will, in any case,
continue to be dominated by the low-value (but high volume) traditional
primary products, which accounted for as much as 701 of total export
volumes in 1986 (Table 2.1). Bananas, responsible for 401 of the
traditional export t'onnage, are produced in the Northeast and hauled about
50 km by rail mostly to the Atlantic port of Santo Tomas de Castilla.
Sugar traffic, accounting for a further 401 of the volume of traditional
exports, is generated ihi the Pacific coastal plain, and a significant
proportion of it moves by road some 350 km across the country to the
Atlantic ports, while the balance is basically uxported through the nearby
Pacific ports. Coffee produetion, third in export tonnage, is scattered
throughout the country, but most of it Is transported by truck to the
Atlantic port facilities.
2.03     Increasing volumes of exports will also call for better access to
zones of good agricultural potential, to improve the delivery of inputs and
to increase competitiveness of agricultural products. Among the main
Imports, fertilizers, wheat and manufactured goods are mainly imported
through Santo Tomas de Castilla and moved overland to Guatemala City and
the Pacific hinterland, although the new Pacific port of Quetzal has been
playing an Increasing role for certain of these traffics. Overall, road
transport is, and will remain, the dominant transport mode, and the
Atlantic corridor linking Guatemala City to the ports of Santo Tomas de
Castilla and Barries stands as Guatemala's main external trade route.
2.04     Throughout the 1970's and early 1980's, investment by the Central
Governmentein transport has accounted for a high share of the country's
fairly low public sector investment (Table 2.2). Priority has been
assigned by successive Governments to the necessary development of the
countryts basic infrastructure and to its reconstruction after the
earthquake which severely affected Guatemala in February 1976. As a
result, the basic transport system is essentially in place.



- 4 -
2.05     Guatemala has a well developed primary and secondary road network
(Table 2.3) which as a result of aging, unsuccessful efforts in controlling
vehicle-axle-load and neglected maintenance has reached an advanced
condition of deterioration.   The national highway network under the
General Directorate of Roads (DGC) comprises about 12,000 km of primary and
secondary roads, of which some 3,100 are paved and the rest earth or
gravel. The network further includes some 1,100 km of low-traffic tertiary
roads, mostly developed and maintained through community programs financed
by USAID. Unpaved roads have accounted for tie majority of the 402 growth
of the national network registered since 1976 (Table 2.4), and most of the
remaining network has an average age above 20 years. Results of a road
condition survey covering the higher-trafficked primary and secondary
roads, carried out under the previous Bank Project (Loan 1846-GU) indicate
that about 602 of the paved network (some 1,900 km) are In a very
deteriorated condition as a result of the cumulative effects of use,
weathering, and lack of timely maintenance, and that some 1,400 km should
deserve priority pavement strengthening if thei  deterioration is to be
arrested (Table 2.5). Moreover, the survey alo.i suggests that at least 50X
of the unpaved network (some 4,000 km) would need to be rehabilitated or
subjected to periodic maintenance, either because it is in regular or poor
condition and carries traffic levels above 100 vehicles per day, or because
it just is in very poor condition. For some 302 of these roads, carrying
traffic levels above 100 vehicles per day, it would be more economical to
improve drainage and provide a gravel surfacing than to attempt to maintain
their level of service with Intensive routine maintenance operations; for
the remaining of the unpaved network the adequate strategy would basically
$nvclve surface grading.  In addition, many of the bridges included under
the secondary and tertiary road networks are small-span temporary
structures, built almost 15 years ago, when timber was plentiful and cheap,
although to very low standards. Most of them are now unsafe and constitute
a serious constraint to traffic. An Independent survey of bridge condition
undertaken by DGC, Indicated that more than 700 bridges are In need of
urgent repair, and that some 200 temporary bridges have to be replaced by
permanent structures. These investments would have to be complemented by
smaller scale investments than hitherto in maintenance equipment to
Increase the productivity of the existing maintenance fleet, and by
technical assistance and training In support of improved managerial and
operating skills of DGC staff for road programming and maintenance tasks.
2.06     The required road rehabilitation effort has so far been prevented
by weak Implementation capability and by the considerable reduction of
Investments in the road subsector throughout the first half of the 1980's
(para. 2.21). This reduction was the outcome of severe public expenditure
cuts and of the priority assigned by the Government to the completion of
the new Pacific Port of Quetzal (para. 2.08). In the feeder road
subsector, further investment in new construction is also justified in
support of agricultural growth and market integration. Such financing is
being provided by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) and other bilateral
sources. Addressing road investment requirements in the context of a
balanced expenditure program euphusizing rehabilitation and maintenance



- 5 -
(pars. 2.19), would be a key objective to be pursued under the proposed
project (para. 3.01).
2.07     Existing port capacity in the Atlantic and Pacific coasts should
be enough for the years ahead to accommodate the country's foreign trade
traffic, with only minor investments to improve operating efficiency,
including specialized bulk and container handling facilities. Guatemala
City is served by a modern in;ernational airport and, given the limited
dimensions of the country, main internal comzercial flows would most likely
be limited to tourism and some agriculture to and from El Peten, where
ground facilities are also available. The economic role of the railway is
not clear and since successive Governments have hesitated in abandoning the
system altogether, the outcome has been characterized by a minimum
investment strategy, and attempts from time to time to reduce the operating
deficit through staff reduction and other measures. The Government has
undertaken to formulate a strategy to deal with the railway issue, in the
context of the preparation of the National Transport Plan to be supported
by the proposed project (para. 2.09). Background information on transport
sector matters is presented in Annex 1.
B. Main Issues
2i) Transport Sector Manatement
2.08     Transport sector management is scattered among several public
ageicies and enterprises with various degrees of autonomy, and reporting to
different Ministries. Road transport developm6nt and administration fall
under the Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public Works (MCTOP),
through the OGC and the General Directorate of Transport (DGT). MCTOP is
also responsible for aviation infrastructure matters, while international
and domestic air services are directly provided by the Guatemalan Aviation
Company (AVIATECA) and by private operators. Railway operations are run by
the Guatemalan Railway Company (FEGUA), under which the ports of Barrios
and San Jose also fall. Port facilities at Santo Tomas de Castilla are
owned by the National Government and managed by a semi-autonomous Port
Authority (EPNSTC), while in Chsmperico they belong to a joint public and
private sector venture. In 1979, a new executing agency was also
established to oversee the construction, and later to manage, the new
Pacific port of Quetsal which became the single largest transport
Investment in Guatemala in the 1970's. Upon its creation, this unit was
directly attached to the President of the Republic's Office, while FEGUA
and AVIATECA have traditionally reported to the Government through the
Ministry of Economy, and EPNSTC and the Port of Champerico through the
Ministry of Finance. Such institutional arrangement has contributeA to
hamper sector policy-making and has led, in the past to unbalanced
allocation of resources, particularly in the ports subsector.
2.09     In 1987, the Government undertook a series of reforms targeted at
strengthening the role of MCTOP in transport sector manageme3nt, while
preserving the necessary autonomy of the sector agencies. AVIATECA, FEGUA
and Port Quetzal were all brought under the authority of MCTOP (Chart I),
and FEGUA now supervises Port Champerico. As a result, MCTOP bicame the



- 6 -
loading sector agency and is now in a position to play a more active role
In multimodal investment planning and policy formulation. Simultaneously,
MCTOP's sectoral unit wa strengthened through the appointment of a key
core of professionals, thus enabling it to perforw its advisory tasks to
the Minister in a more effective way. MCTOP's expanded role would need to
be supported by comprehensive sector planning and folloi-up techniques
toward improved resource allocation and mobilization.  This includes a
comprehensive data base for sector monitoring, and methodologies to assist
in the assessment of the economic role of the various transport modes, in
the apprasial of multiuodal transport projects, in tariff policy
formulation, and in the aosessment of environmental Impact. During
negotiations, the Governm nt ha agreed, under the Action Plan, tos (a)
furwsh to the Bank by June 30, 1992 a transport plan, including a program
for policy Implementation for the period 1902 through 1994, satisfactory to
the Bank; and (b) comence Implementation of the plan and of the program by
July 1, 1992 through June 30, 1994 as set forth in such plan and program
(par-. 3.16)
(ii) Fuel Pricing and Cost Recovery from Road Users
2.10     Guatemala has followed in recent years a policy of periodic
adjustments in domestic fuel prices, to keep them in line with
international levels. As of mid-1987, automotive fuels were retailing at
Q 2.90 per gallon for regular gasoline, Q 3.10 per gallon for premium
gasoline, and Q 1.70 per gallon for diesel-oil. At the regulated exchange
rate In effect at the time, these prices were equivalent to US$1.16, 1.24
and 0.68, respectively, thus well above the corresponding international
prices (Table 2.6). In July 1988, and following a recent devaluation of
the exchange rate, the Government acted promptly to adjust the domestic
price of fuels. As a result, retall prices for regular and premium
gssoline, expressed in US$ terms, maintained their level, while the price
of diesel-oil was increased by almost 302 to US$0.87 equivalent per gallon
(par&. 2.11).
2.11     Taxes on motor fuels constitute the main source of road user
charges. In 1986, fiscal revenues raised through fuel taxes and levied on
users of the national highway network accounted for 86Z of the total
specific user charges, followed by vehicle registration taxes and import
duties with some 62 each, and with some 2S from tolls and other charges.
Overall, revenues from these user charges considerably exceeded DGC's total
expenditures, net of debt service obligations (Table 2.7). Similarly to
most countries of 7-stin America, the existing user charges system is
progressive to the utent that higher priced light vehicles are chazged
well above their estimated costs of road use. In any case, and as shown in
Annex 2, all vehicles, including light and heavy trucks, are charged for at
least the associated road routine and periodic maintenance costs.
Consistently with its ongoing fiscal reform effort, the Government has
passed legislation in 1987 which will allow for an almost 80% increase in
revenues from vehicle registration taxes. This increase, and the recent
adjustments in fuel prices have contributed to an extended level of cost
recover, from road users, particularly for the disel-oil powered trucks
(pars. 2.10). During negotiations, the Government has agreed to continue



-7-
following its policy of recovering routine and periodic maintenance costs
of road infrastructure use in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.16).
(iii) Road Plannina and Progrsmmina
2.12     DGC na  developed a good capability of economic appraisal of road
subprojects, reflecting lUsting achievements of the involvement of the Bank
end of other multilateral development agencies. Investment proposals
identified and prepared by DOC are regularly forwarded through the MCTOP to
the Economic Planning Secretariat (SECAPLAI), where they are submitted to
further scrutiny and consolidated for the public sector as a whole.
Furthermore, under the Bank-financed Rigbway Maintenance Project (Loan
1846-GU), DOC also developed comprehensive capabilities in maintenance
programming, based on surveys of road condition which are carried out on a
regular basis. The planning framework needs, however, to be further
expanded to encompass the preparation of pluriannual expenditure programs,
which reflect economic optimization criteria, subject to budget
constraints. This would enable DOC to a more systematic analysis than
hitherto of the trade-offs between investments in road construction,
paving, rehabilitation and maintenance, and to a better definition of
priorities at the program level, based on the available funding and on
Investment efficiency criteria. The strengthening of pluriannual road
planning would be pursued under the Action Plan agreed with the Government
during negotiations (para. 3.17), and financing would also be provided
under the loan for Technical Assistance in support of this objective (para.
3.12 and Annex 6).
2.13     The further enhancement of DGC's pluriannual road planning
capabilities would have to be accompanied by the development of programming
and monitoring systems in support of improved resource use. DGC has
already installed an embryonic follow-up system, which allows for the
monitoring of key stages of project development, from study preparation to
physical implementation. There subsists, however, a poor coordination
between programming of works and their execution, which has led to a
systematic under-utilization of the funds programed at the time of
preparation of the yearly budgets. Moreover, expanded road expenditure
levels are now foreseen in order to catch up with the existing backlog of
rehabilitation and maintenance works. Increased funding levels to meet
these investment requirements are now secured mostly through comuitments
under multilateral loans and other bilateral assistance credits (par&.
2.21). The timely and effective use of these funds will still put
additional claims on DGC's capacity for subproject execution. The adoption
of a complete system to follow on the physical and financial performance of
subproject implementation, in the context of a rolling pluriannual
expenditure and funding program, would contribute to a more systematic
analysis of implementation delays and to a more rapid triggering of
corrective actions. In addition, it would allow for improved monitoring of
investment targets by MCTOP, and for an improved coordination with the
Ministry of Finance in matters related to budget preparation and execution.
The measures required to strengthen DOGC's program management and project
monitoring capabilities are included in the Action Plan agreed with the



-8-
Government during negotiations (para. 3.17), and would be supported through
the Technical assistance included in the Project (para. 3.12 and Annex 6).
(iv) DGC's Institutional Efficiency
2.14     Planning, construction, maintenance and administration of the road
network fall under the jurisdiction of several governrment agencies with the
DGC playing a dominant role. Other road-related agencies include the
National Enterprise for Economic Growth and Development of the Peten
(FYDEP), the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Institute for Agrarian Reform
(INTA). DGC is, however, the only agency having road administration as its
primary task, while the other agencies are mainly directed toward specific
aspects of agricultural or regional development. The organization of DGC,
as outlined in Annex 3 and presented in Charts II and III, comprisea a
Planning Unit; three divisions in charge of engineering, construction
supervision, and maintenance, respectively; five administrative
departments; and temporary executing units for specific projects financed
by international lending agencies. This organizational structure is
basically sound, but needs further strengthening In view of the weak
operational relationships between technical divisions and units and the
dispersion of responsibilities for coordination and monitoring of the
investment program. The required measures would be addressed under the
Action Plan agreed with the Government during negotiations, in particular
through the establishment of a Program Coordination Unit under DGC's
Director's Office (para. 3.17).
2.15     Over the last five years, DGC has developed a systematic approach
to the planning, scheduling and control of its annual program of
maintenance activities. The maintenance and equipment management systems
developed by consultants under the Bank-financed Highway Maintenance
Project (Loan 1846-GU), have been tested in two maintenance zones and are
now being introduced countrywide. This is being carried out by the
Maintenance Engineering Department, which was also established under Loan
1846-GU. However, DGC's efforts to improve the efficiency of its
maintenance operations have been only partially successful. Unbalanced
maintenance budgets and insufficient equipment for force account
maintenance works partially account for this. In addition, the lack of
funds for investment in the rehabilitation of the network implled deviation
of routine maintenance resources to ad-hoc and sometimes temporary repairs
of extensive sections of paved roads. All these factors have limited DGC
ability to apply cost-effective maintenance practices. The proposed
project would assist DGC to consolidate past achievements in road
maintenance and equipment management and to improve the effectiveness of
the force-account establishment by the introduction of more rational
budgeting practices, by the progressive contracting out of periodic
maintenance activities thereby increasing the role of the private sector,
and by the purchase of complementary equipment for routine maintenance
(para. 3.07) . The corresponding actions are included under the Action
Plan (para. 3.17), agreed with the Government at negotiations.



-9-
2.16     DOC has developed adequate in-house capacity to control quality of
design and of supervision of works (Annex 3, paras. 9 to 11), with DGC
staff directly carrying out most of engineering design and supervision
tasks. Although these arrangements have worked satisfactorily in the past,
increasing demands will be put on DGC staff as a result of an expanded
investment program (par&. 2 .21).  Moreover, the additional engineering and
supervision tasks can be competitively performed by consultants, with DGC
staff being increasingly absorbed in managerial and control tasks. An
expanded volume of works would also be contracted with the private sector,
particularly the ones financed by foreign credits. The progressive
involvement of the private sector in the execution of DGC's activit. s
would demand greater flexibility in the application of bidding and
contracting procedures in order to facilitate a more timely implementation
than hitherto. This has been, however, discouraged by the complex
contracting procedures and by the low thresholds for direct contracting of
works and services contemplated in the bylaws affecting DGC. Streamlining
these procedures, covering, inter-alia, the increase of thresholds for
direct contracting of maintenance activities to keep them, at least, in
line with inflation, is therefore a key priority. The Government is aware
of the situation and at the time of project appraisal MCTOP had prepared a
comprehensive reform of existing regulations, which was reviewed by the
mission, and found capable of addressing the identified problems. The
Government proposal is currently before Congress for approval.
2.17    Despite the impressive effort in creating a training structure and
iplementing a training program at all levels under Loan 1846-CU, and in
subsequently financing it out of regular budget funds, training has still
several deficiencies: (a) the Impact is still weak, as only 20S of DGC
personnel have been trained during the past five years; (b) training has
been concentrated in administrative and services levels; tc) training for
managers does not include basic management skills in planning, organization
and personnel administration; (d) engineers and technicians, which are the
skills and levels that present the major potential for upgrading, are not
receiving sound technical courses; (e) coordination between the training
department and the planning, maintenance, construction, technical,
administrative and financial departments is weak; (f) training facilities
(classroom and workshops) are poorly equipped; (g) training department
personnel and instructors' qualifications need to be upgraded; and (h)
possibilities of agreements with external training institutions (public and
private) are not being used adequately. To help DGC in correcting these
deficiencies, to provide training in consonance with the goals of the road
rehabilitation effort, and to strengthen organization, implementation,
monitoring, evaluation and feedback in the training program, a significant
training component has been included in the proposed project (paras. 3.09
to 3.11 and Annex 5).
C. Government Proaram in the Road Subsector
2.18    The Government strategy in the road subsector is formulated in a
development letter (confirmed at negotiations and available in the Project
File), which stresses the key role of the subsector in support of improved
economic and social integration and of employment creation. Emphasis is
also given to the required step-up of the road maintenance effort, in the



- 10 -
context of a comprehensive set of policies covering an increasing
participation of the private sector in the execution of road works, the
rationalization of personnel training programs, and institutional
development actions to improve planning and program monitoring
capabilities. The prioritization of expenditures, in line with investment
efficiency criteria, the preservation of adequate levels of cost recovery
from road users, and environmental concerns also play a prominent role in
the Government's subsector agenda. Overall, the road development letter
adequately acknowledges the Government's commitment to address the
identified subsector issues, and as such it provides the basis for the
submission of the proposed project (para. 3.01).
2.19     Consistently with Government strategy, DGC's 1988-1994 road
program has been prepared to address identified physical requirements and
to remove institutional and other constraints to a more effective use of
resources. The program would amount to an estimated US$431 million,
including contingencies, but excluding debt service obligations which are
considered in the central Government budget (Table 2.8). The expenditure
program would be dominated by the investment component, including
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance (832 of the total), followed by
routine maintenance (152) and with administration being limited to less
than 2% of the total. Investments in the preservation and selected
upgrading of existing road assets, including strengthening and periodic
maintenance of pavements, rehabilitation and paving of earth roads, and
bridge replacement, would account to 772 of the foreseeable investment
level, with tertiary road cons.truction accounting to 181, and equipment,
training, supervision and studies to the remaining 5%. Simultaneously,
allocations to routine maintenance would reach a satisfactory level,
although they would remain, in real terms, below the values achieved in
1981, in view of- a better balance between labor and other Inputs, and of
the stepping-up of the periodic maintenance effort.
2.20     Investments in civil works adequately reflect identified road
improvement requirements (para. 2.05) and traffic levels, and would allow
for the following physical targets to be met in the 1988-1994 periods
(a) rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of about 1,400 km of heavy-
trafficked but very deteriorated paved roads, including the country's main
external trade corridors and the Altiplano region network;
(b) rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of a further 4,000 km of high
priority secondary roads, in support of improved integration of the
national road network; (c) paving of some 220 km of the road connection to
El Peten; and (di construction of about 2,600 km of tertiary roads, and
rehabilitation of a further 330 km for improved access to areas which still
remain largely outside the main stream of the economy. The achievement of
these targets, which are further detailed in the Action Plan agreed with
the Government during negotiations (para. 3.15), would contribute to
considerably extend the coverage of the road network and upgrade the
condition of priority sections, while preventing further deterioration in
other sections beyond the point where more costly full reconstruction would
be required.



- 11 -
2.21     Overall DGC's annual expenditure level throughout 1988-1994 would
amount to almost US$57 million, as compared to about US$31 million in the
1981-1987 periodl (Table 2.8). This increase is justified in view of the
considerable backlog of urgently required investments, mainly in road
rehabilitation and maintenance, accumulated during the early-1980's when
funding levels were severely curtailed. As of 1987, DGC's total executed
budget was about half of its corresponding level in 1981, in real terms.
Th. Increasing financing requirements for DGC's pluriannual investment
program would be mostly met by external sources, which would finance more
than 402 of the total funding needs throughout 1988-1994, as compared to
less than 201 in the 1981-1987 period. As a result, domestic counterpart
funds for the implementation of the investment program, throughout that
period, would remain consistently below the level achieved in 1981- During
negotiations, the Government has agreed to: (a) not later than July 31 each
year, update its pluriannual road program following policies and criteria
acceptable to the Bank and (b) furnish to the Bank the results of such
review with a list of the Investments (including those under the project)
proposed to be included in such pluriannual road program.
2.22     The DGC's pluriannual road program is economically balanced taken
into account budget constraints, and no investment would yield economic
rates of return (ERR) below 121, the value assumed for the opportunity cost
of capital In Guatemala. The program adequately reflects an investment
strategy targeted at minimizing combined infrastructure and vehicle
operating costs, at the level of the national road network, and at
providing low-cost feeder road facilities In zones of good agricultural
potential. The recomnended road maintenance and paving strategy, largely
developed under the Bank-financed Highway Maintenance Project (Loan
1846-GU), would yield ERR ranging, in average, from 151 to 801 on paved
roads and from 15S to 401 and above on unpaved roads, depending on the
traffic level and composition, road condition and investment type, as
detailed in Annex 4 and summarized in Table 2.9. Investments in feeder
roads and in small bridge replacement would yield ERR estimated at least at
121, although it is anticipated that the return on the majority of
subprojects under this component would be above 152. During negotiations,
the Government has agreed that each investment to be included in DGC's road
program shall meet the following criteria: (a) have an ERR of at least 12Z,
calculated in accordance with a method satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) conform to designs and specifications, and environmental criteria
acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.20, 3.21 and 4.01).
2.23     The major external financing sources for DGC's pluriannual road
program (par&. 2.21) are already secured, except for the secondary and
Altiplano Region components. The secondary road system in Guatemala plays
an important economic role, by providing the linkages between the largely
rural tertiary road network and the primary roads which connect the main
centers among themselves and with the export markets. Secondary roads
carry traffic levels between 50 and 350 vehicles per day, predominantly
associated with the movement of agricultural products and of low income
peasants. Vehicle operating costs In most of these roads are high, in view
1/ Values in constant US$, at July 1988 ?tices.



- 12 -
of the often difficult geography and of the deteriorated condition of the
road surface, and this imposes additional costs upon agricultural
production in their zone of influence.   The Altiplano Region, in turn, is
one of the most densely populated areas of Guatemala, where over one fourth
of the total population lives. It covers some 2.1 million ha., with
altitudes ranging from 1,500 to 3,400 m above sea level. Host of the
agricultural production consists of maize, beans, and whest, but its
climatic conditions are adequate for the production of vegetables and
fruits, for which there are good export opportunities. Difficult access,
as a result of the rugged terrain, has nevertholess constrained further
agricultural production. The Goverment, with the asistance of USAID, has
assigned considerable priority to the construction of tertiary roads in
support of improved accessibility and of the extension of the agricultural
frontier.  The growth of traffic induced by feeder road development will,
in turn, lead to a more intense use of the paved road network in the
Altiplano, which ensures the connection between the production areas and
the main consumption centers and export markets. The existing paved roads
are, however, more than 20 years old and, consequently, have mostly reached
the end of their useful life and are In very precarious condition.
Financing to be provided under the proposed project would be predominantly
targeted at assisting DGC in rehabilitating its secondary and Altiplano
Regional road systems (para. 3.01).
D. Bank Sector Asslstance Strateav
2.24     The Bank's country program for Guatemala emhasixes the following
objectivess (a) help improve public finances; (b) h6lp strengthen public
institutions to improve execution of their investment programs; (c) help
provide social serv'%es to raise the standards of living of the poor; and
(d) promote the utilization of industrial capacity and the diversification
of exports. In the transport sector, the strategy gives priority to: (a)
timely infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation, to  i4nimize the
future capital claims on the public sector budget; (b) support to sector
revenue-ralsing capabilities, through an adequate user charges policy; (c)
institution-building targeted at optimizing investment planning under
budget constraints, and at the bettenment of project implementation
capability; and (d) investment strategy to stress: (i) rural infrastructure
to enhance the poverty-oriented Impact of the associated benefits; (ii)
coordination with regional development strategies, in support of
agricultural growth and diversification; and (iii) regional integration to
improve the access between production and consumption centers.
2.25     During the 1964-1980 period, in which the Bank had no involvement
in the road subsector in Guatemala, the IDB, the USAID, the Central.
American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI), and other bilateral sources
became major providers of development finance for roads. IDB and USAID are
still funding rural road development, while CABEI is basically interested
in financing highway projects capable of fostering economic integration
among the countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM). The IDB
has an ongoing loan for the reconstruction of the Atlantic road corridor.
With the availability of other financing sources for tertiary road
development and for the rehabilitation of the country's external trade



- 13 -
corridors, the Bank has an important role to play In assisting the
institutional development of the road'subsector and in providing finance
for secondary and regional road rehabilitation, in the context of a
balanced pluriannual expenditure and funding program. The Bank's
continuing involvement in the subsector would also provide an opportunity
for initiating a broader dialogue with the Government on sector-wide policy
issues. The above rationale, which emphasizes strengthening of public
sector managemont for improved resource allocation and use, and the
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure in zones of good agricultural
potential, is consistent with the objectives of the Bank's country
assistance program.
E. Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.26     Before 1980 the Bank made two loans to Guatemala which included
funding for the transport sector. The first loan (Loan 124-GU, 1955,
US$18.2 million) assisted in completing the construction of 435 km of the
trunk road network and in executing a three-year maintenance program.
After suffering delays, due to political instability, the project was
satisfactorily completed in 1964, with considerable cost overruns. The
Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 1314-GU, 1976, US$26.5 million),
included a US$2.3 million component for the rehabilitation of Puerto
Barrios, which had been substantially damaged by the 1976 earthquake. This
component was cancelled in 1981 after it became evident that the Government
of the time was unwilling to carry out the key components of the project.
2.27     In 1980, the Bank made a second loan to the highway subsector
(Loan 1846-GU, 1980, US$17.0 million). This loan provided finance for the
acquisition of equipment, spare parts and tools for road maintenance, for
technical assistance and training In maintenance operations, and for road
maintenance planning studies. Project implementation proceeded at a slower
pace than initially envisaged, in particular due tot (a) long period
required for the loan to become effective; (b) frequent changes of the
Government and of the projects' administrators; and (c) complex legal set-
up affecting the procurement of goods and services. The loan closing date
had to be extended by one year to December 31, 1986, and this allowed for
most of the project's physical and institutional objectives to be achieved.
Overall, the main lessons offered by the Project2 point toward the
necessity of a stronger and upfront Government commitment to institutional
development efforts, and of increasing flexibility during implementation of
associated actions. These lessons have been adequately reflected in the
design of the proposed project.
21 Project Completion Report for the Guatemala's Highway Maintenance
Project (Loan 1846-GU), June 24, 1987.



- 14 _
III. THE PROJECT AND THE ACTION PLAN
A. Proiect Oritin and Ob1ectives
3.01     The project is proposed as a specific investment loan with a
strong emphasis on institutional development. However, In line with sector
strategy, the project has been designed In a sector framework, covering
DOCas pluriannual expenditure and funding program, balanced In accordance
with economic priorities . The project also includes an Action Plan
targeted at Lmproving transport sector management, and the effectiveness of
road administration in the context of a road subsector development letter
covering DGC's future role (para. 2.18). This letter Was confirmed during
negotiations. As such, the main objectives pursued under the project
comprise: (a) to preserve and further strengthen the administrative and
operational capabilities of DGC initiated under the last Bank project (Loan
1846-GU); (b) to rehabilitate and maintain damaged secondary and regional
roads of key economic importance; (c) to promote the role of the private
sector in the execution of public works; and (d) to assist In enhancing
MCTOP's capabilities for transport planning and policy-making. The
proposed project was identified through Bank involvement in the preparation
of DGC's road rehabilitation and maintenance program, financed under Loan
1846-GU, and was prepared by DGC with the assistance of Bank staff and of
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The project was appraised
in September 1987, and negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., July
11-18, 1988. The Guat-eAlan delegation comprised the Vice-Minister of
ECTOP, and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, SEGAPLAN, DGC, Bank
of Guatemala and the designated director of the Program Coordination Unit.
During negotiations a reduction in the physical components of the project
has been agreed in order to facilitate the pace of project implementation.
B. Prolect Components
(i) Secondary Road Rehabilitation and Improvement
3.02     About 390 km of high priority secondary earth roads (para. 2.23)
with traffic levels above 100 vehicles per day (Table 3.1), comprising
seven subprojects, were selected for rehabilitation under the proposed
project, based upon the results of the road condition survey carried out
under the previous Bank project, and upon the recommended maintenance
strategy (pares. 2.05 and 2.22). Secondary earth roads, usually engineered
during construction, show a wide variation of standards. Quality of
engineering and construction reflect the pressure on DGC's construction
teams to open new areas for agriculture and the need to keep construction
costs to a minimum; drainage works are generally neglected, bridges are
commonly provisional, and gravelling of critical sections is insufficient
in quality (oversized materials). The roads selected for the project are
located in zones 1, 2, 6 and 7 of D6C's Maintenance Division (see Map IBRD
20843R).



- 15 -
3.03     The design standards to be used in the rehabilitation works (Table
3.3) were agreed during appraisal and confirmed at the time of
nepotiations. All these roads will be improved to Class 0 (5.5 m.
carriageway width). The project provides for the reconditioning of the
existing road bed, minor modifications of the horizontal alignment and
profile, construction of drainage structures, and surfacing with a 20 cm
layer of subbase granular material to ensure their all we"ther use. DGC
has already completed the simplified engineering designs for the
improvement of about 60 km of roads, which are included in the first group
of subprojects to be financed under the proposed loan. These designs were
reviewed during appraisal and found satisfactory. Engineering studies for
the remalaing 330 km would be carried out by consultants during p4oject
execution, with financing under the loan (para. 4.01), which also provides
for consultant services for an additional 260 km of engineering studies for
secondary road rehabilitation and improvement.  Financing would also bo
provided under the loan for consultant services for supervision of the road
civil works under this component. These services would include specific
provision for the environmental monitoring, including cultural property, of
the execution of works.
(ii) Altiplano Road Rehabilitation and Strengthening
3.04     The paved roads selected for financing under the project are
located in the Altiplano region (see para. 2.23 and Map IBRD 20843R) and
Include five road sections totalling about 180 km (Table 3.2). Subproject
selection is in line with the investment strategy recoimmended by
consultants financed under the Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 1846-GU)
(para. 2.22).
3.05     DGC, with the assistance of a foreign consultant financed by UNDP,
has completed the soils and engineering materials studies, specifications
and costs estimates, for the rehabilitation of three stretches (109 km),
comprising the first group of subprojects to be financed under the Project.
The works to be executed include the construction of crushed rock base, a 8
cm bituminous asphalt-concrete course for a 6.5 - 7.2 m. roadway (Table
3 3), and double bituminous surface treatment on the shoulders.  The
project also Includes the improvement of the external and cross drainage
systems, construction of headwalls and signalization. Prelimitnary
evaluation of pavement strengthening requirements on the remainder road
sections under the project, as revised during appraisal, has established
the need to strengthen the pavement structure by the provision of an 8 cm
bituminous-concrete overlay. The detailed engineering and final designs
required for the remaining group of works, would be completed during the
first year of project execution, with the assistance of consultants to be
financed under the loan (para. 4.01). Loan financing also provides for
consultant services for engineering studies for an additional 130 km of
road rehabilitation and strengthening in the Altiplano region, and for
supervision services for civil works under this project component.
Specific provision would be included in the supervision contracts for the
environmental monitoring, including cultural property, of the execution of
works.



- 16 -
(il) Construction of Bridles for Secondarv and Tertiary Roads
3.06     Attaching higher priority to those bridges or group of bridges
that cause most severe capacity constraints on selected links of the rural
system (pars. 2.05), DOC identified 77 bridges, totalling about 500 linear
moters, to be constructed under the first phase of a planned bridge
rehabilitation and construction program (Table 3.4). The program is also
part of an effort by the Government to stress labor-intensive activities in
a time of high unemployment. For a first group of 17 bridges (110 mi),
studies were already prepared by DOGC, reviewed at appraisal stage and found
satisfactory. For subsequent groups of bridges to be financed under the
loan, DGC would prepare, during project implementation, technical and
economic justifications and submit them to the Bank for prior approval
(para. 4.01). Special attention has been given by DGC to the design and
construction of economical, permanent short-span bridges, for the secondary
road system. The standard design in actual use consists of a. deck
structure of precast, prestressed concrete bridge members, for spans up to
15 meters. The live loads used in the design conform to the specifications
of MASHTO H-20. The standard design was reviewed during appraisal and
found adequate. Bridge crossing sites would be further subject to careful
scrutiny by DGC's Technical Division before construction, to determine the
conditions of existing abutments and approaches (para. 4.01). The site
works, to be contracted out, would be supervised by DGC'. Construction
Division which is adequately staffed to carry out this task.
(iv) Road Maintenance and Miscellaneous Ecuivment
3.07     The project would include measures to improve road maintenance
effectiveness, as outlined in para. 2.15.. One of the elements would be the
completion of the renewal of the equipment fleet for routine maintenance
initiated under the previous Bank project (Loan 1846-GU). Net additional
equipment needs were obtained from an analysis of the capacity required
annually to carry out the specific levels of routine maintenance
activities, and from a condition survey of the existing fleet. The list of
equipment to be procured under the project is presented in Table 3.5. The
list also includes miscellaneous equipment required for the technical and
administrative departments of DGC in support of the Implementation of its
pluriannual Investment program.
3.08     The utilization and availability of maintenance equipment would be
monitored under the proposed project, against targets agreed with the
Government at negotiations, under the Action Plan (para. 3.15).
(v) Training
3.09     The training component has been formulated with the main
objectives of continuing to support the DGC training effort and overcoming
the constraints and problems mentioned in para. 2.17 above. The training
program would be enhanced by: (a) emphasizing the training of managers,
professionals and technicians through seminars, postgraduate courses and
technical study visits in foreign countries; (b) stimulating the use of
external training sources (private and public) already available in the



- 17 -
country; and (c) Improving the quality of the training programs offered.
DGC's strategy in training is formulated in a policy statement (confirmed
at negotiations) outlining the objectives of the training program and
signaling DGC's commitment to its implementation.
3.10     The training program would upgrade the skills of about 653  of the
managers, professionals, technicians and services, operational and
administrative personnel in the DGC. Through a broad range of internal and
external courses the program would aim to train some 7,100 persons.
Provision would be made under the proposed project fors (a) Implementing
tho management, technical and administrative training program, including
participants' per diem, training materials, and instructor training;
(b) contracting courses with external training institutions; (c) foreign
and local advisory services to assist the DGC training department in
planning and implementing the training programst (d) study visits abroad
for DGC staff (mainly management and technical staff); (e) studies about
occupational analysis and training evaluation and follow-up; and
(f) teaching materials and equipment. Details of the training program are
presented in Annex 5, and its costs are summarized in Table 3.6. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out the training program under
the project, Including the implementation schedule therefor, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.11     As an institutional measure, in support of the program, the DGC
training organization ould be Improved by establishing at the national and
regional level training advisory committees to deal with training policies,
strategies and priorities as well as, providing guidance for the training
program. DGC training section would be strengthened through consultant
services and study components by: (a) establishing a monitoring and
evaluation system; (b) applying distance-loarning methodologies;
(c) preparing and adopting instructional matorial; (d) establishing a
documentation and information system; and (e) updating occupational
studies. Provision has also been made within the project to upgrade the
staff of DGC training section by providing overseas training in planning,
organization, evaluation, training methodologies, instructional resources
and documentation systems. The above measures are included in the Action
Plan agreed with the Goverrment at negotiations (para. 3.17).
(vi) Technical Assistance and Studies
3.12     The technical assistance and studies component will support the
Action Plan agreed with the Government during negotiations (pares. 3.16 and
3.17). Under this component, consultant services would be provided for
technical assistance in highway management, comprising: (a) Implementation
of the Bank-developed Highway Design and Maintenance Model-Release III
(HDM-III)3 to assist in the  imprehensive formulation of pluriannual
investment programs under budget constraints; (b) development and
implementation of a project monitoring system in support of improved
follow-up  capabilities of DGC's expenditure and funding program;
(c) atrongthening contract supervision procedures, to assist DGC's
3/ A description of this model may be found In Hiahwav Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III), Transportation Department, The
World Bank, 1985.



- 18 -
progressive shift to contracted supervision; (d) introduction of modern
pavement evaluation techniques and country-wide implementation of the road
maintenance and equipment management systems developed under Loan 1846-GU;
and (e) Improving financial management systems. Consultant services would
also be provided under the project for the preparation of the National
Transport Plan, in support of Improved sector management capabilities.
Fees for the administration of technical assistance services (para. 4.03)
would also be financed under the loan. The scope of the technici-l
assistance and studies component, which involves some 16 staff-yoars of
consultant services, is further detailed in Annex 6, end a summary
presented in Table 3.7.
C. Project Cost and Financign
3.13     The total project cost is estimated at US$49.1 million equivalent,
based on July 1988 prices and including appropriate contingency allowances
as shown in the Table on the following page. The proposed loan of US$31.5
million equivalent would finance 951 of the foreign exchange cczponent of
the project (672 of the totel project cost).  Government counterpart
funding would provide for the balance amounting to US$17.6 million, of
which US$16.1 million equivalent of local costs and US$1.5 million
equivalent of mostly Indirect foreign exchange costs. These Include the
costs of: (a) local consultants under the technical assistance component
and local training courses which will continue to be financed out of
regular budgetary funds (para. 2.17); (b) Program Coordination Unit during
the two initial years of project iplementation and prior to its
integration into DOC's permanent administrative structure (para. 3.17),
'which will also be funded under DGC's investment budget; and (c) external
instructors and study visits abroad, for which concessional sources of
bilateral finance are available if required. During negotiations, the
Government has agreed to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities
and other resources required for the project.
3.14     The cost estimates for the road rehabilitation program are based
upon recent contract prices for similar works and quantities derived from
detailed engineering for a cross-section of works selected to represent all
subprojects Included under the program. The cost estimate for the bridge
component reflects unit prices in similar ongoing contracts and the typical
output attained by DGC's beam factory. Cost estimates for maintenance and
miscellaneous equipment have been prepared by DGC based on manufacturers'
quotations and the outcome of recent tenders. Cost estimates for the
training and technical assistance components were obtained in accordance
with the prevailing costs of materials and services. The estimato of the
foreign exchange component of project costs, based on a detailed breakdown
of the various inputs required, was prepared by DGC in consultation with
Bank staff. Physical contingencies were estimated at 102 of the civil
works, including engineering design and construction supervision, in line
with Bank regional experience in similar projects. Price contingencies,
for both local and foreign costs, were estimated over the project
implementation period, based on expected increases of international prices
of 3% for 1988 to 1990, and 41 thereafter.



- 19 -
Pvoj    cnsr ITD4A   AM MEMAIID PDI*NCDiO I/
T1 0i1 l i Ion 2W
/                PC         smaal
ESTMDI   COSIS                                                a   ore wi    Ts         8 ti     tloicien   t
A. Secory o          ilt 
(a) Civl iWar  for    be of irth Ied                  8.8      0.7    I.0         6          7.1       ao
Cb) Octal led *gwn     fr 60 k he of lurti Mud         0.9      0.0      0.6      40          0.8       so
c) Coeructie. Superl-                                  0.9      0.8      1.0      so          0.t       so
Sultatal                                        6.8     7.8    18.5        a          5.8       do
D. AltAPIas bud NebiltItASION gi Streagthenia
(a) Ciil Wwk. fer 1  km of Pawed goods                4.6    10.       1182      70          6.1       so
(b) Octailed   Irarlag i  10w M0 km of Paved ied      0.8      0.7      1.0      70          0.8       d0
(c) Ceneteucten  suer,iaien                            0.4      0.8      1.1      70          0.7       G0
Sibtotl                                          4.2    12.2    17.4        70        10.4       60
C. Constwrtion of hIde.. owe scoodry Rs"d  (0 i.)         0.1      1.1      1.       G           1.1       Go
0. Noltntmac  and Ntmil leanswpamnt                       0.8      8.8      8.1      95          8.5       98
. irsialme Preer
IL Trainin   "qraw
(a)  qotPat                                            0.0      0.8     0.2       98          0.2      95
(b) Coream                                             0.4      0.1     0.6       W0          0.0       0
(C) futernel o1 ntwt   ad Study Vilits,                0.0      0.2     0.1       6           0.0       0
Subtal"t                                        0.4     0.6      1.0      as          0.2       19
P. Tegcal Aesla_c ad Sitodes
Cs) "mtioal T     _suet Plun                           0.2      0.J     1.0       Go          0.6      So
(b) Highw  Obseamnt,                                   0.8      0.2     0.8       40          0.2      40
(c) Progm  Coerdn"tion bhlt                            0.2      0.0     0.2       10          0.0       0
(d) Adminiatrative Aget'. Fe                           0.0      0.1     0.1      10           0.1     100
1tstl                                           0.t     1.1      1.8       so         1.1       a1
II cu                                          U.6    21.8    41.9         a         26.9       84
-             - m      us          -        e
Phy.igsl Coati ageai, (10 5 A. S and C above)          1.1      2.1     8.8                   2.0
Price Ce _tiawmcia 4/                                  1.8      2.8      8.9                  2.6
Total Cos                                      18.1    So.0    40.1                  81.5
A. OD"                                                   16.1      1.8    17.6
B. Pr_nousd Im  Loa                                       0.0    81.8    81.5
Totl PInacciag                                 16.1   tit.0    49.1
/ Idatifiublta tuaxs are stouf S160.2 .i11 ion; as duties saly to euipunt Iitee, to be liported under ts
project.
t At .ly 1966 pricee (Exdcange Rate US 1 * ti 2.7).
3/ Inlmudes indirect foreign coit.
/ Baed en _ap*cted incregses of lnternatinail pricee of as for 166 to 1990 and 40 tereaftr.
applied bot fi local and foreign Cout.



- 20 -
D. Action Plan. 1988-1994
3.15    In preparing the proposed project, DGC and MCTOP developed, in
consultation with the Bank,, an Action Plan, to be implemented during
project execution, including a series of measures covering transport sector
management, at the level of MCTOP, and institutional efficiency
Improvements, at the level of DGC, aJ detailed in Annex 7. The preparation
of the Action Plan, which is targeted at addressing the major issues
identified in this report (paras. 2.08 to 2.17), was accompanied by the
development of a set of investment, productivity and organisational
Indicators to be achieved in the 1988-1994 poriod, as presented in Annex 8.
Duting negotiations, the Government has agreed to carry out the Action Plan
and to, not later than July 31 of each year: (a) review with the Bank its
compliance with the Action Plan during the previous year, including the
program targets; and (b) inform the Bank on the proposed modifications on
the Action Plan and the program.
3.16    The main actions contemplated under transport sector management,
comprises (a) periodic adjustment in road user charges to cover, at least,
the variable costs of road use associated with each category of vehicle
(para. 2.11); and (b) the preparation of the National Transport Plan (pars.
2.09). This would include the development of appropriate methodologies for
analysis and policy making, and the Implementation of recomendations
(1992-1994) covering the following main topics: (a) strategy to decrease
the railway deficit; (b) port tariffs and operating efficiency, in the
context of the foreseeable evolution of the country's foreign trade
markets, on the Altantic and Pacific coasts; (c) regulatory framework, as
it affects the transport market, particularly passenger transport;
(d) pluriannual transport expenditure and funding program, with emphasis on
the Implementation of operating programs; (e) institutional adjustments
requiretd to strengthen sector coordination in a multimodal framework; and
(f) environmental assessment of transport programs.
3.17    The main actions envisaged under institutional efficiency are
targeted at improving the effectiveness of road subsector entities to.
manage a considerably expanded investment program, at increasing the
operating efficiency of road-maintenance, and at personnel training. In
order to support the above objectives, the Action Plan agreed with the
Government at negotiations, contemplates: (a) maintain in DOC a Program
Coordination Unit with functions and responsibilities and with qualified
staff all satisfactory to the bank, and incorporate such Unit by June 30,
1991 into the permanent administrative structure of DGC; (b) contract, by
July 1, 1990, the services of the consultants to carry out the studies on
pluriannual highway planning and on monitoring of the subproject portfolio
under the DGC, and commencing Implementation of the recommendations of such
studies by June 30, 1991; (c) Increase the use of contractors in the
periodic maintenance of its primary and secondary roads with the objective
of increasing the annual participation of contractors in such works to at
least 60Z of the aggregate value of the expenditures related to such
periodic maintenance by December 31, 1994; (d) continue to employ



- 21 -
contractors in the construction and rehabilitation of any of its primary
and secondary roads5 (e) upon the conclusion of the study on road
maintenance and equipment management systems, incorporate the use of such
systems in each of DGC's road districts, In a manner and in accordance with
a schedule satisfactory to the Bank, with the objective of incorporating
such systems in all road districts by June 30, 1992; (f) efficiently
monitor the compliance of DGC's existing vehicle dimension and axle-load
regulations, monitor the data collected in the enforcement of such
regulations and exchange views annually with the Bank on the results of
such monitoring; (g) acquire mobile equipment for vehicle axle-load control
by January 1, 19911 (h) gradually reduce DGC's total expenditures for
unqualified maintenance personnel, so that such expenditures in respect to
DGC's total maintenance expenditures shall not exceed 502 by fiscal year
1991 and 402 by fiscal year 1994; (i) adopt cost-accounting and
computerized accounting systems for DGC by June 30, 1991; (j) conmence
Implementation of the recommendations resulting from the study on
strengthening DGC'S procedures for works supervision by January 1, 1991;
(k) commence implementation of the recomnendations from the study on
pavement evaluation techniques by June 30, 1991; and (1) incorporate into
the permanent administrative structure of DGC by June 30, 1990, a training
unit with functions and responsibilities, and with qualified staff,
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.18     In line with the recommendations of the Project Completion Report
for Loan 1846-GU for upfront Government commitment to institutional
development efforts (para. 2.27), the Implementation of the Action Plan was
initiated during project preparation, and the following measures were
undertaken prior to negotiations: (a) approval of the road subsector
development letter, outlining the Government's objectives and signalling
i'ts zommitment to the objectives of the Action Plan; (b) preparation of
tarms of reference for the National Transport Plan, for the subproject
monitoring system, and for the remaining studies under the technical
assistance and training components of the proposed project; (c) preparation
of terms of reference for, and creation of, the Program Coordination Unit
Including the designation of its Director; and (d) approval by DGC of the
policy statement on training and of the creation of the consultative
camnittee on training.
E. Economic Evaluation
3.19     The proposed project is well justified. Overall, 78Z of total
investments under the project have quantifiable direct economic benefits,
yielding a consolidated ERR estimated at about 28Z. The high return
obtained reflects the dominance of the road rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance elements included In the project, which are associated with
considerable savings in vehicle operating costs arising from improved
pavement condition, sad in infrastructure costs resulting from less
intensive routine maintenance and from an extended useful life of the
pavements. Host of project benefits will accrue directly to traffic
related to cargo movements, but through time, they will be gradually passed
over to agricnltural producers and consumers in view of the competitiveness
prevailing in the road transport market In Guatemala. The proposed



- 22 -
investments would also have a considerable direct employment impact, which
is estimated at an average of about 1,800 non-skilled jobs per year, during
the project execution period.
3.20     The secondary and Altiplano road rehabilitation components were
evaluated using the methodology available in the Planning Unit of DGC.
This methodology is based on the Bank developed Highway Design and
Maintenance Model, Release II (HDM-II), as adapted to the specific local
conditions by consultants financed under Loan 1846-GU. The analysis
developed for a first group of 5 subprojects already reflects the final
engineering costs available at appraisal. Since these costs are, in any
case, considered representative -for the road rehabilitation component as a
whole (para. 3.14), economic analysis was also carried out for the
remaining groups W: Rubprojects. Overall, the secondary road
rehabilitation component would yield an ERR estimated at about 252, with
ERRs on indivilual e:i.uprojects ranging from 16% to 312, while the ERR for
the Altiplano rosd rthabilitation component is estimated at some 322,
varying from 241 to 801, depending on specific subprojects. The economic
returns on both project components are in line with the analysis developed
for DGC's investment program as a whole (para. 2.22 and Annex 4); moreover,
their ranges of variation for individual subprojects, reflecting different
traffic and investment levels, are also consistent with the priorities
Identified during preparation of the pluriannual rehabilitation and
maintenance program. Summary results for the economic evaluation,
including sensitivity tests, are included $n Table 3.8, while Annex 4
presents the methodology and main assumptions used in the anialysis. During
negotiations, the Government has confirmed that upon availability of the
final engineering designs, DGC would- confirm the results of the economic
feasibility analysis for the second and subsequent groups of subprojects
Included in the project, in accordance with methodologies satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 2.22).
3.21     For the bridge component, amounting to less than 62 of the total
project cost, the economic evaluation for a first group of 17 bridges,
totalling 110 linear meters, was prepared by DGC and reviewed at appraisal
stage. This group, accounting for about 202 of the total program to be
financed under the project, is considered representative of the program,
both in terms of investment levels and of the associated benefits. These,
were basically estimated in terms of the benefits accruing directly to
agricultural producers or trassporters as a result of decreasing transport
costs. Improved brLdge condition would also contribute to increase
reliability and safety of passenger transport, and thus contribute to
foster a better dellvery of social services to the areas of the country
where the bridges are located. Results of the economic analysis for the
first group of bridges, yielding ERR rangLng from 20 to 241, are presented
in Table 3.8, and are further detailed in the Project File (Annex 10).
Annex 4 also summarizes the methodology used by DGC. During negotlations,
the Government has confirmed that for the remaining groups of bridges.
included under the project, DGC would conduct economic feasibllity studles,
in accordance with methodology satisfactory to the Bank, and that in no
case would bridges yielding ERR below 121 be consldered for financing under
the project (para. 2.22).



- 23 -
F. Environmental Impact
3.22     The road subprojects included in the proposed project are
exclusively concerned with the rehabilitation of existing facilities in
already consolidated areas of the country. Earth works would be limited to
minor realignments of the existing roads in support of improved traffic
safety, but well within the existing rights-of-way. The bridge component
would make use of concrete materials to replace existing wood structures,
thus minimising the claims on forestry resources. Improved road drainage
to be provided under the project would also contribute to avoid localized
erosion and to improve stability of road platform and adjaeont areas.
Cultural property matters would be adequately covered in civil works
contract documents agreed during negotiations (para. 4 06). The National
Transport Plan, to be financed under the proposed project, would include a
component targeted at formulating an environmental strategy for the sector,
including the strengthening of local institutions (para. 3.16). Despite
the fact that no adverse environmental impact Is foreseen as a result of
the proposed investments, MCTOP would, as a condition for loan
effectiveness, enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with:
(a) the Guatemalan Institute for Anthropology and History providing for
such Institute's involvement in the assessment of cultural property matters
related to the road subsector under DGC's responsibility (para. 5.02); and
(b) the Guatemalan National Commission of Environment providing for such
Commission's involvement in the monitoring of the onvironmental effects of
investments in the road subsector under DGC's responsibility (para. 5.02).
Environmental aspocts would also be regularly followed during project.
supervision, through the Bank's annual review of DOC's pluriannual program
(para 2.22) and through the approval process for subprojects elegible for
financing under the proposed loan (para. 4.01).
G. Assessment of Risk
3.23     There are no major risks affecting the proposed project.  During
implementation of the Bank-financed Highway Maintenance Project (Loan
1846-GU), DGC developed the in-house capability to manage road maintenance
and rehabilitation programs. The ERR on the investments to be financed
under the project is also very high. In order to account for unexpected
delays in the implementation of an expanded Investment program, the project
implementation schedule has been set in line with the standard disbursement
profile for similar projects in IAC. One uncertainty confronting the
proposed project relates to the commitment and ability of the Government to
implement the required institutional changes.   Prior to appraisal, a
strong commitment to sector objectives has already been shown by the
present administration, when it took decisive action to strengthen MCTOP's
role in sector coordination (para. 2.09). Moreover, the preparation of the
National Transport Plan, to be financed under the project, would be
instrumental in assisting MCTOP in the formulation of appropriate policies,
while providing the Bank with an opportunity to regularly exchange views
with the Government on sector matters.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Prolect Preparation
4.01     The subprojects included under the Secondary and Altiplano road
rehabilitation components have already been selected based uposa the
assessment of road condition surveys and sound economic criteria (paras.
3.02 and 3.04) and detailed engineering has already been completed for the
first group of subprojects to be financed under the proposed loan. DGC,
with the assistance of consultants, would complete the detailed engineering
for the remaining groups of subprojects during project execution, in
accordance with the project implementation schedule (para. 4.04). In the
case of the bridge component, a first group of subprojects was reviewed at
appraisal stage and found satisfactory. During negotiations, the
Government has agreed that when presenting to the Bank any subproject for
approval under the proposed project, DGC shall furnish to the Bank an
application, in form acceptable to the Bank, together with: (a) the
appraisal of the subproject, including a sumAry description of the
expenditures proposed to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the
loan; (b) the proposed design standards and specifications of the
subprojact; (c) an economic, technical and environmental evaluation of the
subprojact; and (d) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
B. Proiect Execution
4.02     Execution of the project would be the responsibility of DGC,
except for the National Transport Plan, for which MCTOP's Sectoral Unit
would be responsible. DGC would delegate specific project components to
its following divisions, units and departmants: (a) to the Technical
Department, the preparation or supervision of detailed engineering for road
rehabilitation, and bridges; (b) to the Construction Division, the road
rehabilitation and bridge construction programs; (c) to the Maintenance
Division, equipment procurement and administration; and (d) to the Training
Department, the training program. The responsibilities for the technical
assistance program would be shared among the division concerned and the
Planning Unit. Overall responsibility for the control, monitoring and
evaluation of project activities, as well as the relations with the Bank
would be supported by a Program Coordination Unit under the direct
authority of DGC's Director Office. This Unit, established under the
proposed project by negotiations, in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, would be incorporated into the permanent
administrative structure of DGC by June 30, 1991 under the Action Plan
(para. 3.17). The Unit would directly assist DGC's Director in matters
related to the follow-up and monitoring of the pluriannual investment
program, and in the progressive integration of the activities of the
several executing units for various foreign-financed projects with DGC's
line units (Annex 3, paras. 2 and 4). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would finance all operating costs,
including staff salaries, to maintain the Unit (para. 3.13).



- 25 -
4.03     The Project Completion Report for Loan 1846-CO emphasizes the
necessity of increasing flexibillty In the delivery of technical assistance
services (para. 2.27) to improve consultant's integration into the existing
institutional set-up and to better deal with changing requirements during
project implementation. Following on this recommendation, the technical
assistance component of the proposed project involves a considerable
proportion of consultant services to be provided on an individual basis or
in small groups. This is the case of services provided in support of the
str ngthening of highway management (par.. 3.12), mostly consisting of
assistance in support of the implementation of systems developed under the
previous Bank project (Loan 1846-GU), and of external instructors under the
training program (para. 3.10). For the administration of these services,
the Government intends to select UNDP's Office for Project Execution (OPE)
to serve as administrative agent selecting, contracting and paying
consultants on behalf of Government, with the Bank retaining all normal
technical supervision functions. UNDP has a large local office, with
comprehensivo facilities, and, prior to appraisal, it provided the
Government with needed assistance for project preparation (par&. 3.05).
Financing for the administrative agent's fees would be provided under the
loan, and it is estimated that they would not exceed 72 of the total amount
of about US$0.7 million to be administered, as detailed in Table 4.1. At
negotiations, the Govornment has agreed to make arrangements satisfactory
to tho Bank, with an institution also satisfactory to the Bank, for
purposes of providing assistance to DOC in the carrying out of the
technical assistance and studies component of the project, other than in
connection with the preparation of the National Transport Plan.
*4.04     The proposed project is scheduled to be implemented in six years.
The Implementation schedule, as discussed during appraisal, is presented in
Table 4.2, and was reviewed and confirmed during negotiations.
C. Procurement
4.05     Procurement under the project would be as follows:
Procurement Method I
LCS    LCB  Other  Totl Cost
PL*i ct Element
Cv.I v  TWoP6            19.1   14.3   2.2 V    J4.6
(11.6)   (3.6)  (1.8)   (0.9)
6qut-ent pj              6.3    0.5    -         0.8
(6.1)  (0.4)  (-)      (6.5)
Consultant Services for
Enginoerlng DOsign      -      -    4.6       4.6
and Superv1nisi  of    (-)    C-)  (2.9)    (2.9)
CiviI Work*
Training                               0 9        .9
C-)    C-)   C-)       C-)
Technical Assltance       -       -    2.0       2.0
C-)    (-)  (1.2)    (1-2)
Totals                   24.4   14.8   9.9      49.1
(17.1)  19.0f  (5.4)   (81.5)
1/ Amount. In brackoet show the allocations from tho proceeds of the loan.
Individual contract. for scattered low traffic bridge, costing lono
than USl6E,00, to be procured through local shopping procedures.
V,  Includen about USS.2 million of training oquipment.



- 26 -
4.06     The proposed project would finance civil works contracts for about
US$34.6 million, to be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement (May 1985). For bidding purposes, the Altiplano paved road
rehabilitation component has been grouped Into two packages, each
comprising two or three road sections with individual costs ranging from
US$0.8 to US$5.0 million, and a combined cost of US$5.0 to US$10.0 million.
Given their size, the packages are expected to attract large-to-medium-size
local firms, foreign firms or joint ventures of foreign and local firms.
According to their bidding capacity, contractors would be able to submit
bids for more than one contract in bid packages. The roads included under
the secondary earth road rehabilitation component were split into several
soctions to stage the bidding and construction process in accordance with
the possibility of equipment access to the construction sites. The
resulting sections, with individual length from about 20 to 40 km, would
amount to costs ranging from US$0.7 to US$1.2 million. The relatively
slmple nature of the works Involved, combined with the limited contract
period envisaged (12 months), makes it unlikely that foreign firms would
show interest in submitting bids for this type of contract, as showed by
past experience. Moreover, the geographically scattered distribution of
the works, and the fact that their execution would be spread over a six-
year period, constraints their packaging to attract foreign competition.
Therefore, a substantial amount of civil works contracts is expected to be
awarded to local firms. Accordingly, contracts for civil works, or
packages of contracts, expected to coat over US$1.2 million would be
procured by ICB following Bank guidelines. Contracts estimated to cost
US$1.2 million, or less, would be procured following LCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, which are open to foreign bidders.  Constructiot
of scattered low traffic road bridges, costing less than US$50,000 and
scheduled along a six-yeat period and, within an overall ceiling of US$2.2
million would be procured as Individual contracts through local shopping
procedures, based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least
three contractors, to ensure competitive prices.  It is expected that only
local individual contractors would be Interested in these small-scale
works. Procurement of civil works would be carried out in accordance with
the schedule presented in Table 4.2. Model bidding doeuments and bideing
procedures were reviewed during negotiations and appropriate amendments
confirmed to comply with Bank requirements.
4.07  -  The procurement program for maintenance and miscellaneous
equipment and for training equipment (Table 4.2), Indicating lot sizes and
estimated costs, would be subject to prior Bank approval. Contracts with
estimated values of over US$50,000 would be awarded through ICB procedures
in accordance with Bank guidelines. At the Government's request,
manufacturers of equipment in member countries of the CACM would receive a
margin of preference in bid evaluation for goods to be awarded through ICB
of 151 of the c.i.f. bid price or half the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower. Minor miscellaneous equipment, spare parts and
equipment under the training program with values of less than US$50,000
and within an overall ceiling of US$500,000, would be procured on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three local



- 27 -
eligible suppliers. Sample bidding documents were reviewed during
negotiations and appropriate amendments confirmed to meet Bank
requirements.
4.08     During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following specific provisions regarding procurement of goods, works
and services: (a) no prior registration of bidders shall be required;
(b) no bidder shall be disqualified because his bid prico is above or below
a predetermined value, provided, however, that if local competitive bidding
procedures are being followed, bidders may be disqualified for such reason;
and (c) bid and performance securities shall be denominated in the currency
of the bid or any freely convertible currency, and shall be issued by any
bank located in Guatemala or abroad, acceptable to the Bank. In addition,
no prequalification would be required for civil works contracts to be
awarded following LCB procedures. All bidders would be post-qualified on
the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank and clearly specified in the
bid documents. Prequalification would be required for civil work contracts
to be awarded under ICB procedures. The invitation to qualify for bidding
on specific contracts under ICB would be advertised and notified to
prospective bidders as prescribed in the Bank guidelines. The
prequalification procedures were confirmed at negotiations.
4.09     Proposed civil works contracts estimated to cost US$0.7 million
equivalent or more, representing about 942 of the total estimated value of
work contracts, would be subject to the Bank's prior approval. MCTOP's
would send for Bank review the tender documents, including information on
advertisement, the evaluation of tenders, and the ward recounendations.
After obtaining the agreement of the Bank, MCTOP would send to the Bank two
conformed copies of the contract   For the balance of contracts, MCTOP,
after completion-of the contracting process would send to the Bank two
copies of the contract together with the evaluation and ward of tenders.
The Bank would have the right to reject the contract if agreed tender
proceduros were not followed, and to cancel the related loan amount.
4.10     For procurement of equipment, the threshold for prior review by
the Biwk would be US$50,000, representing 92X of the total of contracts.
4.11     Consultant services for technical assistance in transport
planning, engineering design and supervision of civil works under the road
rehabilitation components, ould be contracted in accordance with the
relevant Bank guidelines (August 1981), allowing free and independent
participation of foreign consultants. Term of Reference and short lists
of qualified firms would be submitted for the prior approval of the Bank.
Subsequently, the evaluation of proposals and recomiendations for the
selection of a firm, as well as the related draft contract would also be
submitted for prior review and comments by the Bank. Decree 35-80 and the
guidelines for hiring technical and professional services, regulating
consulting activities in Guatemala, restrict the participation of foreign
consultants. It requires that public entities must hire foreign
consultants only when local consultants are not available for expected
assignments. Moreover, foreign consultants must comply with
prequalification provisions. At negotiations the Government has agreed



- 28 -
that: (a) foreign consultants shall be allowed to participate freely in the
selection process even if local consultants shall be available for the
concerned services; and (b) no prequalification shall be required. Short-
term consultants required for technical assistance in highway management,
and for training, would be hired through an Administrative Agent as
detailed in para. 4.03. The Bank would review and approve the Terms of
Reference for the activities described above, the qualifications of the
consultants and supervise the results of their work.
D. Disbursements and Audits
4.12     Within the 641 level of cost sharing, the Bank would disburses
(a) 601 of total expenditures for road civil works and bridge contracts,
detailed engineering and supervision services for road improvements;
(b) 1OOZ of foreign expenditures for imported maintenance, training and
miscellaneous equipment and spare parts, and 85Z of total expenditures for
locally procured miscellaneous and training equipment; (c) 1002 of foreign
expenditures for consultants services under the technical assistance and
studies component; and (d) 1001 for the Administrative Agent's fees. The
allocation of loan proceeds for the various loan categories is shown in
Table 4.3. Disbursements for civil works contracts, equipment purchases,
and consultant services for less than US$100,000 equivalent would be made
against statement of expenses, the documentation of which would be retained
for Bank review by supervision missions.
4.13     Retroactive financing Is recommended for payments under the
project made after April 15, 1988 but before the dato of loan signature, up
to a-total of US$1.5 million, for civil works, road engineering and
supervision services, purchase of miscellaneous equipment (including
training), and for technical assistance, provided that the respective
withdrawal applications are received within 90 days from the effective
date.
4.14     The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan, based
on the assumption that the loan would become effective by July 1989 is
shown in Table 4,4. This schedule adequately reflects the project
implementation schedule (Table 4.2), and is in line with the standard
disbursement profile for road projects in LAC. Full disbursement of loan
funds is expected by December, 1994.
4.15     To ensure timely availability of adequate counterpart funds and to
provide enough cash flow to the Executing Agencies to carry out foreign-
financed projects, the Government manages the associated budgetary funds in
an integrated way. To this extent, the revolving fund in existence in the
Ministry of Finance has proved an acceptable instrument. The timely
availability of counterpart funds for project implementation would be
closely monitored during project implementation. Currently, it is not
possible to open a special account in foreign currency due to the principle
established by Congress in 1986, that the country's foreign currency
reserves cannot be earmarked for any purpose. If this changes, the
proposed project would be amended during supervision to include provision
for a special account.



- 29 -
4.16     In preparing the proposed Project, the accounting and internal
control systems were reviewed as shown in Annex 9. Under the Action Plan,
agreed during negotiations, DGC's computerized accounting system would be
muproved with the acquisition of personal computers and the implementation
of a computerized system for all auxiliary accounting system and the
budgetary system (para. 3 17).  The project records (including supporting
documentation for statements of expenses) and accounts shall be subject to
audit, each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, consistently applied by an Independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank. At negotiations, it was agreed: (a) to engage Independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) to submit the audit reports to
the Bank not later than five months after the end of each fiscal year.
E. Annual Consultations and Proiect Monitoring
4.17     With regard to project monitoring, agreement was reached with the
Government during negotiations that It would prepare and furnish to the
Bank semi-annual reports, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, providing
inter-alia the following information: (a) listing of contracts related to
each subproject; (b) progress of execution of Bank-financed road
subprojects; (c) progress In the Implementation of the project; and (d) the
schedule of estimated withdrawals from the loan account.
4.18     Moreover, and in order to monitor progress in the implementation
of DGCOs pluriannual investment program and of the measures contemplated in
the Action Plan, assurances were obtained from the Government, at
nogotiations (para. 3.15), that it would meet with Bank representatives, at
least annually, and that It would provide information by July 31 of each
year within the following scope.
(a) Compliance with the Action Plan and Program targets during the
previous year (Annexes 7 and 8); status of Implementation of the
various components of DGC's pluriannual expenditure program,
including evolution of each source of funding; and detailed status
of the portfolio of subprojects with financing under the loan,
including the various steps of preparation and Implementation, in
accordance with the project implementation schedule (Table 4.2).
(b) Proposed update of measures and targets included in the Action
Plan; proposed update of pluriasnual expenditure program, in
financial and physical terms, and of associated funding
projections; review of the project implementation schedule; and
status of execution of Bank-financed components.



- 30 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     At negotiations, the Government submited to the Bank the following
(para. 3.18): (a) road development letter; (b) terms of reference for the
National Transport Plan, for the subproject monitoring system, and for the
remaining studies under the technical assistance and training components;
(c) terms of reference for, and creation of, the Program Coordination Unit,
including the designation of its Director; (d) DGC's policy statement on
training and creation of the consultative committee on training; (e)
project Implementation schedule; and (f) appropriate amendments in sample
bidding documents for works and goods, to meet Bank requirements.
5.02     Loan effectiveness would be contingent upon: (a) MCTOP entering
Into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guatemalan Institute
for Anthropology and History providing for such Institute's involvement in
the assessment of cultural property matters related to the road subsector
under DGC's responsibility (para. 3.22); (b) MCTOP entering into an
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guatemalan National
Commission of Envirorment providing for such Commission's involvement in
the monitoring of the environmental effects of Investments in the road
subsector under DGC's responsibility (para. 3.22); and (c) the Government
making arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank with an nstitution also
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of providing assistance to DGC in
the waryring out of the technical assistance and studies component of the
proposed ptoject, other then in connection with th"e preparation of the
National Transport Plan (para. 4.03).
5.03     During degotiations, the Government has agreed:
(i) to furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1992 a tranport plan,
Including a program for policy Implementation for the period 1992
through 1994, satisfactory to the Bank, and comence
Implementation of the plan and of t-he program by July 1, 1992,
through June 30, 1994 as set forth In such plan and program (para.
2.09);
(it) to continue following its policy of recovering routine and
periodic maintenance costs of road infrastructure use in
accordance vith criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.11)
(iII) to update, not later than July 31 each year, its pluriannual road
program following policies and criteria acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank the results of such review with a list of
the investments proposed to be included In such pluriannual road
program (para. 2.21);
(iv) that each investment to be included in DGC's road program shall
have an ERR of at least 12X, calaculated in accordance with a



- 31 -
method satisfactory to the Bank, and conform to designs and
specifications, and environmental criteria acceptable to the Bank
(para. 2.22);
(v)  to carry out the training program under the project, including the
implementation schedule therefor, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3. 10);
(vi)  to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other
resources required for the project (para. 3.13);
(vil)  to carry out the Action Plan and to review with the Bank, not
later than July 31, of each year, Its compliance with the Action
Plan during the previous year, including the program targets, and
inform the Bank on the poposed modifications on the Action Plan
and the program (para. 3.15);
(vll)  to maintain in DGC a Program Coordination Unit with functions and
responsibilities and with qualified staff all satisfactory to the
Bank, and incorporate such Unit by June 30, 1991 into the
permanent administrative structure of DOC (para. 3.17);
(iz)  to contract, by July 1, 1990, the services of the consultants to
carry out the studies on pluriannual. highway planning and on
monitoring of the subproject portfolio under the DGC, and
coumencing Implementation of the recommendations of such studies
by June 30, 1991 (para. 3.17);-
(x) to increase the use of contractors In the periodic maintenance of
its primary and secondary roads with the objective of increasing
the annual participation of contractors In such works to at least
60S of the aggregate value of the expenditures related to such
periodic maintenance by December 31, 1994 (para. 3.17);
(xi) to continue to employ contractors in the construction and
rehabilitation of any of its primary and secondary roads (para.
3.17);
(xil) upon the conclusion of the study on road maintenance and equipment
management systems, to incorporate the use of such systems in each
of DGC's road districts, in a way and in accordance with a
schedule satisfactory to the Bank, with the objective of
incorporating such systems in all road districts by June 30, 1992
(para. 3.17);
(xiii) to monitor efficiently the compliance of DGC's existing vehicle
dimension and axle-load regulations, monitor the data collected in
the enforcement of such regulations and exchange views annually
with the Bank on the results of such monitoring (para. 3.17);
(xiv) to acquire mobile equipment for vehicle axle-load control by
January 1, 1991 (para. 3.17);



- 32 -
(xv) to reduce gradually DGC's total expenditures for unqualified
maintenance personnel, so that such expenditures in respect to
DGC's total maintenance expenditures shall not exceed 502 by
fiscal year 1991 and 402 by fiscal year 1994 (para. 3.17);
(xvi) to adopt cost-accounting and computerized accounting systems for
DGC by June 30, 1991 (para. 3.17);
(xvii)  to commence implementation of the recommendations resulting from
the study on strengthening DGC'S procedures for works supervision
by January 1, 1991 (para. 3.17);
(xviii)  to commence implementation of the recommendations from the study
on pavement evaluation techniques by June 30, 1991 (para. 3.17);
(xix) to incorporate into the permanent administrative structure of DGC
by. June 30, 1990, a training unit with functions and
responsibilities, and with qualified staff, satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.17);
(xx) that, when presenting to the Bank any subproject for approval,
under the project, DGC shall furnish to the Bank an application,
in form acceptable to the Bank, together with the apprai*!al of the
subprojact, including a summary description of the expenditures
proposed to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the loan,
the proposed design standards and specifications of the
subprojact, and economic, teecnical and environmental evaluation
of the subproject, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request (para. 4.01);
(xxi) that no prior registration of bidders shall be required (para.
4.08);
(xxii)   that no bidder shall be disqualified because his bid price is
above or below a predetermined value, provided, however, that if
local competitive bidding procedures are being followed, bidders
may be disqualified for such reason (pare. 4.08);
(xxiii) that bid and performance securities shall be denominated in the
currency of the bid or any freely convertible currency, and shall
be issued by any bank located in Guatemala or abroad, acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.08)
(xxiv) that foreign consultants shall be allowed to participate freely in
the selection process even if local consultants shall be available
for the concerned services, and that no prequalification shall be
required (pare. 4.11);



- 33 -
(xxv) to engage independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and to
submit the audit reports to the Bank not later than five months
after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.16); and
(xxvi) to prepare and furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports, in a
format satisfactory to the Bank. providing, inter-alia,
information on the listing of contracts related to each
subproject, the progress of execution of Bank-financed road
subprojects, the progress in the implementation of the project and
the schedule of estimated withdrawals from the loan account (para.
4.17).
5.04     Subject to the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$31.5 million.  The terms would be 20 years.
including a 5-year grace period.
October 31, 1988



GUTEMArA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHAIILITATION PROJECT
Composition of Main Exports 11979-19861
(in thousand tons)
Traditional
Traditional E=oorts                      Others    Total   as a Z of
Bananas    Sutar    Coffee    Cotton.  Heat    Subtotal                           Total
1979            265        157      143       171        16       752       212        964        78
1980            397       212       128       135        11       883       362      1,245        71
1981            354        199      110        94.       13       770       409      1,179        65
1982            463        127      141        66         7       804       464      1,268        63
w
1983            255       444       138        38         8       883       491      1,374         64
1984            321       276       126        52         8       783       376      1,159        68
1985            351       284       186        64         9       894       209      1,103         81
1986            360       367       136        36         3       902       395      1,297         70
Sources Bank of Guatemala and mission estimates.
October 1987



GUTEKALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHUBILITATION PROJECT
Central Government Expenditure in Transport 11979-1986)
(Executed budget in million Q., at current prices)
Transport
Tr&nsuort                  Central Government        ({ of Central Government)
Capital                       Capital                         Capital
Current   and Debt   Total    Current  and Debt    Total    Current  and Debt   Total
1979           29.3       51.9      81.2    499.5      422.0       921.5      5.9       12.3       8.8
1980           30.3      102.4     132.7    633.3      553.6    1,191.9       4.8       18.3       11.1
1981           31.2      159.1     190.3    703.0      762.7    1,465.7       4.4       20.9       13.0
1982           27.0      106.0     133.0    635.6      622.8    1,258.4       4.2       17.0       10.6
1983           14.9       80.9      95.8    642.6      454.7    1,097.3       2.3       17.8        8.7
1984           15.9       76.1      92.0    683.7      447.9    1,131.6       2.3       17.0       8.1
1985           21.7       51.1      72.8    760.9      425.7    1,186.6       2.9       12.0        6.1
1986           58.0       63.0     121.0  1,198.6      900.4    2,099.0       4.8        7.0        5.8
.4
Source: Ministry of Finance
October 1987



Table 2.3
p.        qw       .1
; 1IU33  2
=  1  _       ]   §  *  *~~I  *    * I 13
-~~~] I            ;,, I                        3 
ia           ;    0                 -   



- 37 -
Table 2.4
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Evolution of the Road Network under DGC (1976-1986) 1/
(in kilometers)
Year           Paved          Unpaved            Total
1976           2,731           5,515             8,246
1978           2,829           6,385             9,214
1980           2,927           7,255            10,182
1982           3,041           7,605            10,646
1984           3,070           7,949         - 11,019
1986           3,100           8,295            11,395
1 As of 1986, the network further inciuded some 1,100 km of
tertiary unpaved roads, built and maintained under community
progrm with USAID assistance.
Sources DOC
October 1987



- 38-
Table 2.5
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Condition Survey (1986)
(length in km)
Average                 Condition
TYD-               AADT 1         Good     Reaular     Poor       Total
580            -         96        278        374
Asphalt            1,460            51         96        346        493
Concrete           2,600             -        132       230         362
5,370            -        202        140        342
Subtotal                          51        526       994       1.571
190            -         70        146        216
Surface              500             -        295       382         677
Treatment          1,030             -        250       279         529
1,890            -         44        66        iO
Subtotal                           -                  873       1,532
40          210      1,202     3,780       5,192
Earth and             80           167        689     1,170       2,026
Gravel               130            16        225       217         458
360           39        146        431        616
Subtotal                         432      2.262     5.598       8.292
Total                            483      3,447     7,465      11,395
_-                                m
1/ Average Annual Daily Traffic.
Sources DGC
October 1987



- 39 -
Table 2.6
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Price Structure of Automotive Fuels 1/
(in US$1gallon) 21
Regular 31       Premium 41       Diesel
Gasoline         Gasoline           Oil
Imwort Price (c.i.f.) 5/       0.46             0.49            0.42
Wholosalor's Margin          0.02             0.02             0.02
Taxes 61                     0.12             0.14            0.04
Compensation Fund 71         0.50             0.53            0.15
Wholesale Price                '.10             1.18            0.63
Retailor's Margin            0006             0.06            0.05
Retail Price                   1.16             1.24            0.68
11 In effect from October 1985 to June 1988.
21 Exchange ratet US$1-Q2.5 (from June 1986 to June 1988).
31 87 RON gasoline (RON - Research Octane Number).
41 95 RON gasoline.
51 As of June 1986.
§/ Including VAT (72 of wholessle price), and wholesale tax (4Z
of wholesale price for regular gasoline and 5S for premium
gasoline).
7I Revenues allocated to the fund for compensation of petroleum
prices; these allocations may change from time to time, as
a function of variations in Import prices.
Source: Mission estimates, based on data prov'led by the Ministry of
Energy and Mines.
October 1987



- 40 -
Table 2.7
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Revenues from Taxes Levied on Users of the National
Road Network and DGC'S Expenditures (1986) 11
(in million Q., at mid-1986 prices)
Revenues 2/
Fuel Taxes                             81.8
Import Duties                           5.9
Vehicle Registration Taxes              5.8
Tolls                                   1.1
Others                                  0.5
Total Revenues                     95.1
DGCCs Ex"enditures 31
Operating 4/                           52.7
Others 5/                               2.6
Total Expenditures                 55.3
1/   From specific user taxes, i.e., from tax revenues levied on road users
over and above the general taxation level in the economy.
21  Allocated on an average annual mileage basis.
3/  Net of debt service obligations, which are directly assumed through
the Central Government budget.
41   Including road strengthening and improvement, bridges, maintenance and
a related proportion of training and administration.
5/   Including new construction and a related proportion of training and
administration.
Source: DGC and mission estimates.
October 1987



- 41 -
OaTw.A                                              Toble 2.6
Pag  I of 2
seoD    Me lwML MmO 264miLiTAT1W   PA0.RT
0='a Expendi ture and Funding Prasree 1/
(1901-1994 In egnaetant Q. Million. St July 196" OPICee)
1961 1962  19603 196  1905 19066  1961966n  19119  1990  1991  M92  199  1994  1966-94
Semirs.. of Piad                 3122.2  75. 1 74.0 114.8  70.2 86.9  64.9 1817.2 122.7 211.2 1,9.8 1817.2 12.7 118.6  1070.1
Semnetig                 166.7~~~~~~~MI  614.9  60.9 1161.61 6.2 60.6 61.0  76.9  92.1 96.7 61.6 64.6 89.6  07.4  60. 7
Curient  ~~~~~~~~~~8.1 27. 1 28.,5,2.  21.8  21.2  24.2 24.2 26.7  28.1 25.7 2.1  25.8  24.7  176.0
21,armant Sgd.                  74.6 J  .6 87.4 68.2 84.6 N.4 26.6 t2.7 6.4 6.0 66.6 69.6  64.2  62.7  430.9
Internal                          18.5  9.2  1.1 27.6  14.0  6.8  18.9 60.3 60.6 118.6 6.0 652.6 89.2  26.2  442.4
11111                           t11.4  0.0  0.J  0.0  0.8  0.6  2.1  17.8 86.8  7.4  17.0  14.5  10.6  10.6  148.7
UAID                             2.6  0.8  0.0  8.2  0.J  2.6  J.0  16.8  6.2  10.6 10.7  0.0  0.0  0.0   44.7
CAM                              0.9   0 *  *.9  11.7  7.5  1.2  8.6  4.9  4.9  11.3  10.8  0.0  0.0  0.0   81.4
o0. Mositerel                    0.0  t,-O  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  19.6 24.0 21.2  aa.7 2S.2  19.6  14.0  164.4
im  (164141)1                    0.6  2.4  5.4  12.9  6.9  1.7  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    0.0
1m  (0S60)                       0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  10.3 26.1  16.8  12.9  9.1  1.6   78.2
Apiieoati4  of feude 2/          1.28.  76.1 74.0 114.0 70.2  66.9 64.9 1817.2 172.7 211.2 169.5 187.2 126.7 11.8.  1070.1I
Igrvetmnns                        90.1 46.0 60.6 66.1 49.0  46.7  67.0 110.9 146.8 186.6 148.1 110.6 102.8 67.2  66.4
Sead COmobiuctige (tertIary)     6.6  0.1  0.0  8.6  0.8  2.0  10.41 60.81 29.7 80.9 AS.4  10.5  14.4  10.3  160.0
ftad Srensath.and Ioprewa.mti.   64.6  43.4 43.9 72.0 41.1 40.8  19.6 63.6 77.8  MO. 70.6 86.0  6.6  386.4  400.4
prinery Umad"                77.7 86.61 66486.7  40.6  40.8  14.8 80.2  60.9  73.8 66. 1  1.10616.2  260.6
taCOMonar leAd.              6.6  6.    .   6.8  0.8  0.0 I .7  18.9  16.1  18.6  109  W6.  2o.2  202   126.6
0~   ~ ~ . T:41 72.70    0
Tertiary leAd.               0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  6.6  9.7  0.8  1.6  1.6  0.0  0.0  0.0   18.0
Illod ft  n                      0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.1  16.0 26.9  32.0 62.1 29.1 22.6  16.2  179.7
P6riodle lbinteneme.~ of .61gb   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  5.8  6.4  6.4  6.2  6.2 26.9 26. 1 26.2   96.4
ewwtroated           0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  17.7  17.7  17.6   66.2
ftwee Acwint        0.00.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  6.6  6.4  6.4  6.2  6.21  0.2  5.4  5.4   42.2
Oridge  (Labor Absorbent)        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  0.6    6.4
Sqeiau8t 8/                      0.4  2.1  8.2  12.9  6.8  2.2  0.0  0.0  0.1  18.7  2.2  0.0  0.0  0.0   21.0
TreSl"In                          1.4  2.2  1.4  2.7  1.9  0.5  0.5  0.8  1.6  2.8  1.8  0.6  0.8  0.8    6.7
Studies sd Superision            0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.8  2.4  4.1  '.2   2.6  1.9  0.8   16.0
nmtine gbintene.ge                27.6  28.114 20.2  19.9  16.8  17. 1 26.2 26.6 28.7  26.7 28.7 28.7  26.7 28.7  165.6
ce.traeted                       0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  3.7  2.1  2.2  2.2  2.2  2.2  2.2  2.2   1s.3a
Sovt Account. of ehidh          27.6  28.4 20.2  19.9  16.3  17.1 21.8  21.3 21.51 21.5 21.5  21.5 21.5  21 5  150.5
Fuol and Lubrieant.            6.9  7.8  S5.   5.6  3.6  4.4  5.5  5.8  5.5  5.6  3.5  5.5  5.5  5.5   86.5
Spam. Parts                     1.4  0.6  0.61  0.6  0.6  0.9  3.6  3.6  386   3.0  3.0  360  38   SO3   26.6
personnel                      14.7  18.6  12.6  12.2  12.1  10.3  10. 7  10.7  10. 7  10. 7  10.7  10 7 10.7  10 7   74 9
material. and oIlire.          2.6  1.7  1.8  1.5  1.6  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5   1 s   10.5
Ad.ini.tratia,                     4.5  8.7  8.3  3.8  2.9  4.1  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7   16.9
I/ 1961-1966 emaciatd: 1967 e.tieated; 19I0-1994 Projected. Includes pityoleal contingencie. for inneeotont. to be flnanced
under the oapro.o.ed     I s l.
2/ Nat of debt servic. obligtione  which are directly sawmd through the Centra Osuernwent budget.
3/ Include. ?rechnic,l Aesltance fow  Itntenanca soneges.nt until 1966.
Source 0X and Mi0utes ertiiltea
.Ally 1966



- 42 -
ToWe, 2.J
JAI3IIL                                                     r.  2 of 2
SEcAy AM 1uI0L ReOA MBIAlTATION FROJE
DeoC- Eapenditure and Funing PrFr"
(96694. In ominal U  oi IIion)  I/
19"  Iw9 190  19l 192 1993 14  1964
.ore  of Funds                                  1.5 0.2 02.2 66.0 57.3 68.0 51.0   430.0
O_ stic                                       S2.0 864.7 07.8 Jz.  85.3 3.7  89.2   246.8
Curen.t                                       9.1  0.7  10.2 10.8  10.5  10.9  11.2    71.9
Oovrft Bonds                                  19.9 28.0 27.1 22.3 24.6 27.6 2s.o0  174.9
External                                       22.3  30.8 44.9 35.4 22.0  10.9  11.6   104.0
lOS                                           *.5  181.7  14.5  6.6  0.1  4.6  4.0    67.0
UWAD                                          0.6  8.0  4.1  4.8  0.0  0.0  0.0    17.2
CAM                                           1.6  1.6  4.4  4.1  0.0  0.0  0.0    12.1
Other atIeteral                               7.4  9.1  11.0  13.3  10.5  6.4  6.3    58.2
i   (1646-J)                                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0         0.0
IO   ()PO)                                    0.0  3.9  10.9  6.7  5.4  3.9  0.7    31.3
iiestio, of Fund t   f                         51.3 65.2  2.2  66.0 87.3 85.6 S3.0   40.8
Investment                                     41.6  58.3 72.0 57.4  46.8 44.2 89.1   35.9
jad Ctt ti tia  (torti*ry)                    11.6  11.2  12.0  10.1  7.7  6.2  4.6    63.4
i  d Stron4o.and Iprovemen.                  20.1 29.3 84.3 23.4  14.0  16.6  16.4   160.1
Primt.. Road                              11.3 25.0 25.5 25.2  4.7  4.0  7.3   102.3
Aeom,dur ROBd                             8.2  0.2  5.4  4.6  9.9  12.2  9.1    S2.6
Tertiary flod.                            8.6  0.1  0.0  0.6  0.0  0.0  0.0          4.9
ldPtan                                    0.0  10.9  12.6  12.6  12.2  9.0  7.3    72.6
Perioldc Oblntutnce. ot which                 2.4  2.4  2.4  2.5 10.0 10.0  10.4    40.1
Ctected                                   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  7.4  7.7  0.0    25.1
orc Account                               2.4  2.4  2.4  2.8  2.0  2.8  2.4    17.0
11Uridge., (Lbo neubs ng)                     0.0  0.0  0.8  0.8  0.5  0.8  0.2         2.2
wimt_                                         0.0  0.0  7.J  0.9  0.0  0.0  0.0         6.2
Training                                      0.2  0.6  0.9  0.5  0.2  0.1  0.1         2.0
Stdite ad Suervelon                           0.5  0.9  I.0  1.7  1.1  0.8  0.1         .7
loutin. I4intonunc*                             0.9  6.9  9.2  9.8  9.9  10.2 10.7    07.8
Conrnced                                      0.6  0.5  0.6  0.9  0.9  0.9  1.0         6.1
Force Account, of which                       6.1  6.1  0.4  0.6  9.0  9.3  9.7    61.2
FNel end Lubriente                          2.1  2.1  2.1  2.2  2.3  2.4  2.5    15.7
Spare Parts                                 1.4  1.4  1 S   1.8  1.6  1 0   I 7    10 7
Personnel                                   4.0  4.0  4.2  4.3  4.5  4.0   4 6       30.4
laterisl- *nd Others                        0.6  O.6  0.6  0.0  0.0  0.7  0 7         4.4
Aduini.t,tion                                   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.1  1.1  1.2  1 2         7.6
1/ Projcted  Includeo *hioicel continaercee for f ncet.otts to bo f;nanced under the proposed
IBM loan; price increases for both locel and foreign e.penditure, were *etia;ted et
3J for 1965 to 199W, a  4n theroefter.
2/ Mt of debt *ervie obligations. which or, directly sesmed threouh the Central Government bd"et.
Source: DOC and mission  -tiatee
July 195



GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD RERHAILITATION PROJECT
Economic ForMulation of the Road Maintenance and Paving Strateav
(Technical Solutions and RMntes of ERR)
Pavement                                         A  A  D  T 11
_BELOWABOVE
SURFACE     CONDITION      50  |50-100  100-350  35-i,ooo  19000-2,500| 2,500-5,C00| 5,000
Good                        Seal       Seal
Coat       Coat               O v e r l a y
P A V E D     Regular          N.A.      (15-30)    (20-55)                 (20-80)
R e h a b i l    t at  l o n
Poor                                                        (20-80)
Gravel-
ling or
U N P A V E D            Grading     Regra-     Paving                  N.A.
(Above 40)    velling  (Above 15)
(15-30)                                                             c
11 Average Annual Daily Traffic
Source: DOC
October 1987



- 44 -
Table 3.1
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Secondary Road Rehabilitation and Imirovement Component
Estinated
No.   Route                  Section               A.A.D.T.       Length      Cost 11
(1986)       (km)     (US$ million)
1     RN07W    Chiantla-Sacapulas                   235           58.0         1.8
2     RN07E    San Julian-Panzos                    207           89.1         2.7
3     RN18     San Jose Pinula-Mataquescuintla      334           55.6         1.7
4     RN18     Km32 Jalapa-San Pedro Pinula         160           30.3         0.9
5     RN07W   S. Cristobal Verapas-Sacapulas        170          103.0         3.3
6     RN09N    ChIantla-Desvi* a Todos Santos       233           21.0         0.6
7     RN18     Mataquescuintla-km 32 Jalapa         135           32.0         1.0
Totals                389.0         12.0
1I Base cost at July 1988 prices; does not include
physical and price contingencies
Source: DGC
July 1988



- 45 -
Table 3.2
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Altiplano Road Rehabilitation and Strgnathening Component
Estimated
No.    Route      Type          Section                 A.A.D.T.    Length       Cost 1/
(1986)      (km)    (USS million)
8     CAOlW       C     Encuentros-4 Caminos            1,100         61.8         4.1
9     CA02W       B     Popoya-Nahualete               3,449          34.8         4.9
10    RNO1         C     4 Caainos-Quetzeltenango       4,494          12.0         0.8
11      A02W      B-C    Retalhuleu-Coatepeque          2,199          41.0         3.0
12    CA02W        B     Bifurcacion CA2-El Carmen      1,104          33.0         2.4
Totals                               182.6         15.2
11 Base cost at July 1988 prices; does not lclude
physical and price contingencies.
Sources DOC
July 1988



- 46 -
Table 3.3
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Design Standards for Proiect Roads
Class
B              C               G
Item            Unit   -------------   -------------   -------------
F   R   M    F   R   M         F   R   M
e_______________________  -----  ---    ---   ---  ---   ---   ---  ---   ---   ---
Design Speed             Kmlh    80  60  40   80  60  40   40  30  20
Minluun Radius for
Horizontal Curvature      a      225  110  47  225  110  47   47  30  18
Maximm Grade              Z        6   7   8    6   7   8    10  12  14
Carriageway               m             7.2            6.5             5.5
cut       m            13.0            12.0            7.5
Platform Width
Fill      m            12.0            11.0            6.5
Min. Stopping Sight Dist. m      130  80  45  130  80  45   20  35  45
Kin. Passing Sight Dist.  m      500 350 200  500 350 200  200  125 100
Right of Way              m            25             25              15
Surfacing                     Asphalt-concrete Asphalt-concrete Gravel over
entire width
Terrain
F - Flat
R - Rolling
M - Mountainous
Source: DGC
October 1987



47 -
Tablo S.4
Sa5MDAY AN                            ONI    POSJWT
Raod Links                                      Ib             YOWl           Ctiited
of           $pan            cost I
No              eit    b. Now                                                   e.         (aeterm)       am     m
1          0c-10 ZV-1           Pedut - AcatrAn                              9                  
2          CA" zV-I             Sa Late - Alde   Arom                        2               S 
3          no-is 2-             Sea PNedr JmW  nleoll el  d Tdo j                            41             144
4          GM-IS 2V-i           Dun Jmeta - Lao i e*asa                      I                S *
5          04" Zv-l             Toepn - 6u,temlo - IliskO                    2               11              at
a          C4-1 LV-I            S.Irtin Jilotopsoo -  xice. Viejo            S               17              0
7          I9-l ZV.1            Pastarl  - CA-iE                     ,                       6              21
a          JAI-4 ZV-2           La. Ansa. - E1 Ov.jore                       2               10              as
9            1 BD-S             La bOmrele  - Lee Aeolom                                     1t              ST
o           ES-2IS WV-S         1Nmaaa - A     itoplt Pt.  stal               2               is              U
*I          US-S zV-8           SJnt Ele - Carrr Calrdo                       a               s              1
12     E US-? 2WE-               LaV Crus_ - Teams.                           2               is              46
1:          US-S zVd             Run Sta1e - CImtol                           1               4               14
14          US-Is 2-             CA-U - nG   -cmgol                         2I              is              4d
is          Bt-tl 2l-S           CA-U - Gatalra_n                             a               a               a
:S           S-042 2V-S          CA-U - ueam. lIrer.                          4              S                dS
1:          US-S lV-             Sarrit Viejo - Pt. Sn Je                     1              10              86
iS          US-1i lVd-           Oh.re - Stt1                                                 7 
10          USISu W-S            E Ibrajo - Obe                               1               a               1
20          ES-.i2-S IV NIrumje - Se N1i1el Los Floe                          4              as              dS
81          US-O  2VW-           U Redo - SlmtIrale                           7              40              172
22         S10-  ZW-4           Ntuev Vanele - 3.IIvI                        1               0               21
25          60440 ZV-4           "Is - lalivie                                2                               as 
24          804e Z11-4           La Capina - im                               1               7               U
25          SC-H ZV-4            Lo Union - San Jg       dole                 1                              U
2           SC0-14 1V-4          Chieae. - Semg At9Iln                        4               U               I
2?          SO-04 ZV-4           La  tlr  - Bit. CA0                          S               7'             d0
2J          10-10 92-4           La PUtrti - Sit. 10-14                       1               6               2
2I         S00-19 1V-4           Sit. 104-i - La Patel                                       S               is
so          S4-05 1V-4           CA-& - Sa Preamte. ZaptiUen                                  1 1t            so
Tobal                                 ns                        
I/ At July 19S pricesa doee  net b5ielmid. ptvemil and price  eingtlncl-.
Source O1C
July tsil



-48 -
Table 3.5
.UATEJALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tentative List and Cost of Eauipment Cogmonent
Estimated
Number of     Cost per        Cost lt
Description                   units         Unit       (USS thousand)
A. Maintenance Equipment
_____________________
Dump Truck 4 m3                           40            25         1,000
Crawler Tractor                           14           125         1,750
Front-end Loader 2 c.y.                   16            70         1,120
Water Sprinkler Truck 4,000 gal.           5            60           300
Pick-up 4x4 1 ton.                        25            15           375
Van Truck 4x4 5 passengers                 5            20           100
Subtotal Maintenance Equipment                                4,645
Fast moving Spare Parts (About 10 2)                                 455
Total Maintenance Equipment                                   5,100
B. Miscellaneous Equipment
_______________________
Computer Equipment                                                   140
Traffic Counters                                                      25
Portable Vehicle Weighing Scales                                     110
Soil Laboratory                                                      375
Office Support Equipment                                              50
Total Miscellaneous Equipment                                   700
Total Equipment (CIF Guatemala)                               5,800
Local Delivery and before
Operation Service                                                    300
TOTAL                                                         6,100
I/ Base cost at July 1988 prices; does not include
price contingencies.
Source: DGC and mission estimates
July 1988



- 49 -
Table 3.6
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summarv of Training Comnonent Costs
Estimated
Cost 1 
Description                         (US$ thousand)
A. Equipment and Learning Materials
1. Equipment and Tools                               60
2. Mobile Classroom and Workahop                     90
3. Audiovisual and Learnin8 Material                 20
Subtotal                                      170
3. Training Courses
1. Perdiems and Transportation                      225
2. Materials and Office Supplies                    100
3. External Courses                                  90
4. Master's Program In Highway
Engineering and Planning                         150
5. Coordination Seminars                             20
6. Studies                                           15
Subtotal                                      600
C. External Instructors and Study Visits
1. Expatriates                                       91
2. Local                                              9
3. Study Visits Abroad                              100
Subtotal                                      200
TOTAL                                         970
11 Base cost at July 1988 pricess does not include price
contingencies.
Sources DOC and mission estimates
July 1988



- 50 -
Table 8.7
WUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sumary of Technical Ausistance and Studies Cosponent )/
Man-Months  Duration       Scheduld       Estimated Cos    S thouan"d) V
Studies/Services               Staff      months    Implementation          Local   Foreign   Total
A. National Transport Plan              1IU           24      Jun 'IU-Jun '92         2w        oS      1006
B. Highway Monagemnt:
1. ProJect Monitoring System           17          d       Jul-Dec '9               57        U6        9S
2. Road Planning                       14           0      Jul-ec '90               47        Si        78
3. Pavemnt Evaluation                  14          12      Jan-Dec '9S              47        81        78
4. Contract Supervision                13           a      Jan-Jun 'U               44        29        73
S. Road Maintenance and
Equipment Management                23          12      Jun 'U-ZJun '91          75        51       126
6. Financial Systems                    0           a      Jun-Dec 'UO             3J         20        so
Subtotal                       Uf                                          anU   6             NW
TOTAL                         194                                          16      1O0       1,6CO
/ Net of Administrative Agent's fe (ee Table 4.1).
V  Base cost, at July 1M  prices; does not Include price contingencies.
Source: DOC and mission estimates
July 1988



GASTEMALA'
SECONDARY AND REGIIAL ROA RWMLKITATI0N PROJECT
Reults o Eeonom lealr ln
(Traffic In vhiclo untlt and costt In &illIon Q., at July 10m  prime)
Averan. Annual Daily Traffic f19S6                                £conemie Rate of Return t3M
Length  Passenger                 I/       P    Truck                 Economic /   Base    Benefit        Costa
Road Soctlon                  (I n km)  Cgo"      Pickuss  flus    Troo  Combination  Total           Costs        Case       -lex       .19
Secondary Eatb Reads
1. Chiantla-Sacapulns           68.0        71        76       87      as        l         288        4.9        8M.        27.1        26.9
2. San Julian - Panase          J9.1        87        r7        9      51         23        207        7.4         24.6       21.9       21.9
S. Son Jose
Pinula-Mataquesculntil     66.6         Is      157       16      5           26       S4         4.6         U6.6       27.6       26.9
4. km 82 Jalapa-San Pedro
Pinula                     J6.3        46        of       24       5           8       1to        2.4         21.4       10.7        18.9
S. S. Cristobal Verapez-
Saeapulas                 18.68         a6       49       17      49          26       176        3.6         24.8       21.7       21.0
6. Chiantls-hevio a Todos
Santee                     21.0         29      111       16      52          28       288        1.6         27.4       24.6        24.5
7. lbtaquescuintia-ko 82
Jalapa                     32.6        41        47       16      21          18       135        2.7         16.1       13.9        18.9
Subtotal                 19-                                                                   32.2         25.4       22.6        22.6
Altiplano Psved Roads
S.  Encu.ntro_-4 Celmnos        61.6        391      21       206    131          02      116i        11.2         24.2       21.4        21.7
9. Papaya-Nahualt               84.0        905    1,646      J80    547         470      8:449       13.4         34.1       o6.6        31.6
16. 4 Caminoo-Quetzaltonango,   12.6      1,6"6    1,347      919    401         267      4 494        2.2         70.1       72.4       73.6
11. Retolbuleu-Coatopeque       41.9       634       631      636   n21           1M3     2,199        8.1         84.2       29.6       29.9
12. Blfurcaclon CA2-EI Carmn   U.9         611       245      238      77         41      1,164        6.6         23.6       20.7       21.1
Subtotal                162.6                                                                  41.5         32.1       28.5        28.9
Total                   571.6                                                                  78.7         29-1       25.9        20.1
J  Financial cos t   includinr  engineoring deslgn, supovision end physical contina ocle, but noot of taxes and other transfer paymnts.
V Also Includes light trucks.
P Also includes heavy buse.
Source: DCC and mission estimates.                                                                                                             e
July 1968
00



GUATEKALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Resultg of EconomAc Analysis
(Population density In Inhabitants/lh. and costs
in thousand Q., at July 1988 prices)
Population    Economic 11 Economic Rate of Return (21
Bridls Circuit                  Total Span (ml        Den3ity       Cost        Base     Benefits    Costs
Cost       -102       +lOl
1.  Pochuta - Acatenango              50                0.80        425         23.1       21.3        21.4
2.  San Luts - Aldo Controres         18                0.60         153        19.7       18.0        17.9        u
3. S. Pedro Jocofilas-Rancho
de Teja                          41                0*37        350         24.3       21.8        21.9
11 Financial costs, including supervision and phisical contingencies,
but net of taxes and other transfer payments.
S 
Sources DGC                                 
July 1988



- 53 -
Table 4. 1
GUATEMAIA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Services under the Administrative Asent
Estimated
Cost
Description                            (US$ thousand)
A. Technical Assistance in
Highway Managements
1. Project Monitoring System                         95
2. Road Planning                                     78
3. Pavement Evaluation                               78
4. Contract Supervision                              73
5. Road Maintenance and
Equipment Management                             126
6. Financial Systems                                 50
Subtotal                                    SOO
B. Instructors for T:aining Programs                    lOG
C. Administrative Agent's Fee                            42
(7Z of A and B above)                                --
TOTAL BASE COST  1/                         642
Price Contingencies                                   58
TOTAL COST                                  700
m                                            m
I/ At July 1988 prices.
Source: DGC and mission estimates
July 1988



-54-
TAULE 4.2
ug. I af S3
$BMW  AND MO lE AL  MDD  4IZITATIT   FRIOJ
7.e.XTw. Projoo     t ;el Zut.na unS Ol.
bt.                               1,IneeTe*I     P.rTAj
"e)  Ut*    swa          1 018     100 90 19" to           n0 19
^  Odlixhlrtw     7t41|t  l.a  .xxw               _   *~nxwxsvxz s  uxxx  xx axxX=gXt  XXXXX
D. Dete48l le   eA.e ling           74*5   i.   3333  n
iI wl wik. fer beth bed.:
Grou  A                       1.0                           2    xx1x.8x U 3
are" S                        16.0    1.0                                    x333333333
C    ru C1*   le.    8.                                                         33W3   33I3I33333
ar.    " Ire u                        0bud  C              _xxxx xx3x3x xx           3  x                           3
2                 4 0    $ 4                                _   x61    IM   masommsxxmixxxxx
subtotal             S1.    1.
C. AlblpleAe be  ftm     atiotmte
Civil                            UZO      1 b s
O                             inz rwul  0l z   2_xxxxx xxxxxzx"x xxxXXX#X*XX   XXXXXXXS"
r                             74.    5.4                                                 333xxXXXX X  33XXXXX33X
lubtetel             188.6   1..2
0.C.tvuetlm  gerll                 871.6   2.2              I ns33332  2333333331  3333333331  x333333333   333333332x 13333
IL  Igrine fo ees.oESQ an,"           0.8   i.e                          2333333332 smmu33333   S"3333331   333333  2333
P. bgutpuur                           -      6.3                               ax 3
0. Tuuintm  Plo_wO.                   -      0.x    xxxxxxxxxx 3x33                   xxx 33 3   x3xxxx3 3    3x3xxxxx3xx3xxx3 3
M. Teaial AsmeetwEe                   -      1.5                         .3X.= _333333331 33X'S
I. Pr" n  Cae,diuatin A Ad. P"               0.8    xxxxx SSXXIIXXX 3 X3XXXX23XX# 3XXXX
btle Cos                     41.
-Advertising to Contrombin6
An Sm  dditIiol In6 ka of wmeari.e.v    design stuies fe  the puejee  meed  "ere egpleted by DOC staf In 1916. with, .aeltanee
free WW.
lout.. DOC ex   miesiem   "i e
J.ly. 19



- 55 -
Table 4.2
Page 2 of 3
0JATENALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROD REHIU8TTATION PROJECT
Tentative Projietb Implementation Schedule
Earth Roads Tender Group.
(LengtIn  K.)
ROAD SECTION                                    COS                      Total
A        a         C        D         E       Lengh
Chlantla4acapulas                                                                  S8o.
1) Km. I - 28                     26.9
2) 1K. 29 - 5                               J9.
Son Jullan-Penzoo                                                                  69.1
1) Km. 9 - so                     39.0
2) km. 1 - 60                               39.1
) k. 61 - 9g.1                                       29.1
San Jose Plnula4latoques"Intla                                                     65.6
1) Km.   - W9.9
2) Km. 65. - 31                                                26.6
r6.42 JaIaPS-af P.dr PIVI.   -                            -9.3                      39.8
Son Crietobal Vrqpapz-Sacapula'                                                   19.9
1)   .-. 0                                           3 .
2) km. 1 - E                                                   85.0
3) km. 1n - so                                       39.9
Chlentls-DetvIo Todo* Snto*                                             21.9      21.9
Mstaquosculntla-lm. 82 Jalapa                                            32.6      82.0
Total,                      6.1       6.6      97.1      99.6       9.3    8139.9
Source: Mc and mison etimat.
July 1933



- 56 -
Table 4.2
Page 3 of 3
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABITATION PROJECT
Tentative Project Implementation Schedule
Paved Roads Tender Groups
_________________________
(Length in Km.)
GROUPS           Tot-l
__________________
1          2         Length
Los- Encuentros-4 Caminos     61.8                    61.8
Popoya-Nahualate              34.8                   34.8
4 CamSnos-Quetzaltenango      12.0                    12.0
Retaihuleu-Coatepeque                     41.0       41.0
Bifurcacion CA2-El Carmen                 33.0       33.0
Totals                      108.6       74.0       182.6
Source: DGC and mission ettimates
July 1988



- 57 -
Table 4.3
GU4TEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          2 of
Expressed in       Expenditures
Loan Catogory                           Dollar Equivalent      Financed
(1) Civil Works
(a) Road Rehabilitation and
Improvement                          16,300,000)
(b) Bridges                                 1,100,000)            60Z
(c) Engineering Design                      1,100,000)
(d) Construction Supervision                1,300,000)
(2) Eguigment*
(a) Road Nalntenance and                                   100Z of foreign,
Miscellaneous Equipment                5,800,000)      85Z of local
(c) Training Equipment                        200,000)      expenditures
(3) Technical Assistance and Studies
(a) National Transport Plan                   800,000)     100S of foreign
(b) Highway Management                        200,000)       expenditures
(c) Administrative Agent's Fee                 42,000)
(4) Unallocated                               4,658,000
TOTAL                                     31,50,000
Sources Appraisal mission
July 1988



-58-
Table 4.4
GUATEMAL
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Dlsbursements
Dlsbursed In             Cumulativo
quarter            FY          Disbursements          s
19tO
September 89, 1989              1.5                                1.6              4.1
Decmber 81, 1989                2.4                                3.9             12.4
March 81, 1990                  2.7                                6.6             21.0
June 86, 1990                    2.7              9.8              9.8             29.5
1991
September 8O, 1990              2.7                               12.6              38.1
Deceeber 81, 1990               2.9                               14.8              47.0
March 31, 1091                  1.6                               16.4              52.1
June 80, 1901                   1.6               8.7             18.0              57.1
1m
September 8O, 1001              1.7                               19.7              62.5
December 81, 1901               1.3                               21.5              68.B
March 81, 1902                  1.4                               22.9              72.7
June U0, 1992                   1.4               6.       .      24.8              77.1
September BO, 1992              1.8                               25.8              81.8
December 81, 10m                1.8                               26.9              86.4
March 81, 100a                  1.1                               28.0              68.9
June 80, 2099                   1.0               4.7             29.0              92.1
1994
September 80, 1M8              0.9                               29.9              94.9
December 81, 1008               0.9                               89.8              97.8
March 81, 1994                  0.2                               81.0             90.4
June 89, 1994                   0.2               2.2             81.2              99.0
1995
September 89, 1994              6.2                               81.4              99.7
December 81, 1994               0.1               e.8             81.5             11o.1
Asaumptions:
Loan Signing Dates April 1099
Loan Effectivenos: July 1989
Project Completion: June 8, 1904
Loan Closing Date: DOcember 81, 1994
Source: mission estimates
July 1988



- 59 -
Page I of 4
GUATEMAIA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transport Sector Background
A. Road Subsector
1.       Trucking Is responsible for handling almost 95Z of cargo transport
in Guatemala. As of 1986, the fleet comprised some 39,000 two-axle trucks,
with a typical capacity of 10 tons, and about 6,900 semi-trailers and truck
combinations, vith a typical capacity of 20 tons. These two types of
trucks specialize in different segments of the market, with two-axle trucks
being mostly used for the movement of agricultural products and general
cargo, whilo semi-trailers and truck combinations are predominantly
allocated to the transport of containers, bulks and finished goods.
Moreover, two-axle trucks are mostly the property of individual owner-
operators, in contrast with truck combinations which are owned by organized
companies.  The reportod load factors of 701 for the heavier trucks and of
above 602 for the lighter trucks indicate an acceptable level of operating
efficiency. The fleet is further complemented by a considerable number of
lighter pick-ups which are used both in cargo and in passonger transport.
Existing legislation allows the Ministry of Communications, Transport and
Public Works (MCTOP) to set tariffs, but the Government has resisted *
prossuros from Interest groups, arising from time to time, to intervene in
the market. As a result, the trucking industry is veli developed,
competitive, and truck rates are in line with other Latin American
countries.
2.       Passenger transport is subject to considerable economic
regulation, as compared to the trucking Industry. MCTOP, through the
General Directorate of Transport (DGT), liconses bus operators and sets
fares, routes and frequencies for inter-regional and rural public transport
services. Current tariffs range from about US cents 0.8 to US cents 1.1
per passengerlkm on paved roads and increase to US cents 1.2 on unpaved
roads. These tariff levels would iMply average bus occupancy factors of
about 801, if operators were to break-even. However, reported occupancy
factors are of about 601, which makes it unlikely that all bus operators
are fully recovering depreciation. As a result, the level of service has
declined, vith poor vehicle condition with an average age above 10 years.
Since DOT's capacity for its regulatory role has been traditionally
lmi4ted, the Government contracted In 1986, with the assistance of the
United Nations Development Program, the services of a foreign expert to
provide for training of DGT personnel in operations analysis and tariff
formulation. Government efforts to rationalize passenger transport would
be further pursued during preparation of the National Transport Plan to be
financed under the proposed project.
3.       The growth of Guatemala's registered vehicle fleet has declined in
the 1980's to an annual rate of about 71, from 11Z until 1977, reflecting
the overall slowdown in economic activity registered during that period.
Nevertheless, the current motorization rate of about 36 vehicles per 1000
inhabitants is well above its 1977 value of 24 vehicles per 1000



- 60 -
ANE  1
Page 2 of 4
inhabitants. DGC has six permanent traffic countiLng stations on the
country's main roads, with the remaining of the highway system begin
regularly surveyed under almost 200 limited counting stations; this ensures
an adequate coverage of the national network. Overall, 1986 traffic
levels, as measured by the Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT), vary from
5,400 to 580 for asphalt concrete ro-mds, froia 1,900 to 190 for surface
treatment roads, and were below 400 in gravel and earth roads. For the
paved network as a whole, truck participation ranges from 25 to 402 of
total traffic, while buseo account for a 2 to 5S share. In the unpaved
network, trucks and buseo show lower participation. of 10-20% and of 2-52
of total traffic, respectively, reflecting an increasing transport role
played by light pick-ups, partly as a result of low road geometric
standards and very poor conditions. An increasing penetration of trucks
and buses in the rural network, in support of reduced transport costs for
agricultural production and for low-income passenger use, would be
facilitated by investments in improving secondary road conditions,
financing for which is to be provided under the proposed project.
B. Port Subsector
4.       Guatemala has five main ports, which handle more than 901 of the
total country's foreign trade. These ports include Santo Tomas de Castilla
and Port Barrios In the Atlantic coast and Port Quetzal, San Jose and
Champerico in the Pacific coast.. The main port is Santo Tomas de Castilla,
which accounts for about 67Z of the national port traffic, in volume terms.
The port is served by both rail and road, and as of 1986 total cargo
handling reached 2.3 million tons, of which one third were associated with
container and roll-on/roll-off traffic. Other cargos include liquid and
solid bulks (371 of the total), and bananas and general cargo (151 of the
total each). About 1,000 ships go through Santo Tomas de Castilla every
year, of which more than half are bulk carriers, and full container and
roll-on/roll-off ships. Traffic has been growing at almost 71 per year
since 1980, and the Port Authority is currently in the process of preparing
a master plan with Japanese bilateral assistance. The plan would most
likely emphasise maintenance of existing facilities, and the provision of
additional equipment and storage to accommodate the rapid growth in
container traffic.
5.       Guatemala's second port, In term  of volume of cargo handled, is
the Pacific Port of Quetsal, also served by both rail and road. The port
Initiated operations in 1983, and about US$200 million were Invested in the
first stage of its development which is now completed. Traffic has grown
to almost 630,000 tons in 1986 from less than 300,000 tons In 1983, with
most of the registered growth being accounted for diversion of Guatemalan
traffic away from the Port of Acajutla, in E1 Salvador. As a result, Port
Quetzal currently handles some 181 of the country's port traffic and more
than 601 of the cargo moved through the Pacific ports. Ship traffic is
dominated by general cargo ships, with bulk carriers, full container, and
roll-onlroll-off accounting for less than 251 of the total. Port
operations follow a similar pattern, dominated by general cargo (691),
followed by bulks (281), and by containers and roll-onlroll-off (31).
Although there is ample space for future port expansion, existing
operations are being hampered by shortage of refrigerator facilities, and
of pilot vessels and tugs.



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
6.       The balance of the country's port traffic (some 15% of the total)
is accommodated by the Pacific ports of San Jose and Champerico, and by the
Atlantic port of Barrios. San Jose has recently specialized in bulk liquid
imports, mostly petroleum products, which replaced molasses exports
diverted to the nearby Port of Quetzal. Champerico and Barrios ore both in
a very deteriorated operational condition, and the availability of
alternative and modern facilities In both coasts would most likely lead to
the continuation of their declining participation in Guatemala's port
traffic.
7.       Government policy in the port subsector has beon traditionally
hampered by the considerable number of institutions involved in port
management and reporting to different Ministries. Port facilities in Santo
Tomas de Castilla are owned by the National Government and managed by a
semi-autonomous Port Authority (EPNSTC), while in Champerico they belong to
an autonomous public and private sector venture; both have traditionally
reported to the Government through the Ministry of Finance. The ports of
Barrios and San Jose are under the National Railway Company (FEGUA), with
the Ministry of Economy playing an overviewing role. In 1979, a new
excuting agency, reporting directly to the President of the Republic's
office, was also established to overview, and later to manage, the new
Pacific Port of Quetzal. The civilian Government elected in 1986 has taken
considerable action to mprove port coordination, by bringing Champerico
under FEGUA, and by assigning to MCTOP an overviewing role over EEGUA.
MCTOP's leading role needs, however, to be consolidated by the further
development of in-bouge capabilities for its expanded role, particularly in
terme of formulation of cost-related tariff policies and of preparation and
overviewing of investment programs. This objective would be pursued under
the Action Plan for the proposed project.
C. Railway Subsector
8.       The railway system comprises about 800 km of narrow gauge track
(0.914 m), most of which is now paralloled by paved roads. A 600 km
mainline crosses the country from the Mexican border at Tecun Uman to the
Atlantic ports of Castilla and Barrios, passing by Guatemala City. An
additional 200 km of branch lines connect the main line with the Pacific
ports of quetzal, San Jose and Champerico and with the Salvadoran border.
Locomotive power comprises 30 locos and rolling stock Includes some 1,400
cars, mostly for cargo. The difficult geometric conditions of the network,
aggravated by the very deteriorated condition of the track and rolling
stock, have led to declining operating performance. Average speeds range
from 20 to 25 km per hour, wagon rotation periods are excessive, locomotive
availability is very low and derailments are frequent. As a result, the
railway participation In cargo movement has experienced considerable
reduction, with traffic declining at an annual rate of about 82 throughout
the 1981-1985 period.
9.       As of 1986, FEGUA moved about 600,000 ton of cargo over an average
distance below 180Skm, and some 400,000 passengers at an average distance of
some 80 km. In order to try to offset the very low levels of servic'
rendered, the railways have followed in 1986 a policy of setting up - iffs
at some 60X of the competitive road transport, which partly explain,



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
362 Increase in cargo moved with respect to 1985. The net result was an
increase in the operating deficit to almost US$2 million, with average
revenues of about US$0.02 per ton-km and of some US$0.002 per passenger-km
being well below operating costs. Nevertheless, this policy reflects a
deliberato effort from the Government to minimize the inconvenience to
traffic in the Atlantic corridor, the railways most important route,
resulting from the ongoing reconstruction works in the parallel Guatemala-
Santo Tomas de Castilla road. In any case, and for the small volumes of
traffic end the low distances Involved, it is difficult for the railways to
have an economlc role to play when in competition with road transport. The
Government is awaro of the problem, and with the exception of some
emergency maintenance works In the Atlantic line, it has basically followed
* policy of no investment In the railways.  Moreover, and pressed by acute
fiscal constraints, the Government will formulate a strategy to deal with
the railway Issue in the context of the preparation of the National
Transport Plan to be financed under the proposed project.
D. Aviation Subsector
10.      The Government operates and maintains the six main domestic
airports through NCTOP's General Directorate for Civil Aviation. Guatemala
city is served by a modern international airport, and the Government is
currently upgrading the Santa Helena airport, in the E1 Peten Region, also
for international standards. The aviation system is further completed by
several hundreds of dirt or grass strips, mostly used by private aircrafts.
Air transport is provided by the National Airline (AVIATECA), and by other
international and domestic airlines. Overall, existing facilities are
sufficient for the levels of air traffic, although some investments In
navigation aids may be required In the future.
December 1987



- 63 -
ANnEX 2
Sag. I of 2
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Recoverv from Road Users
1.      Tax revenues lovied on users of the national highway network
considerably excoed DGC's tot-l expenditures, net of dobt service
obligations, as shown In Table 2.5 of the main text. Tazation on motor
fuels represonts some 851 of total revenues, with Import duties, tolls and
other charges accounting for tho remaining 151. The road user charge
systes, however, Is not equitable to the xtent that taxes on diesel-oil,
mostly used by heavy vehicles, are well bolow gsoline taxes (Tablo 2.4 of
the main te7t), while most of road deterioration Is attributable to trucks
and heavy buses. Despite the fact that gasoline consumption may offer a
convenient way of raising general revenue for the Government, it is
nevertheless Important to ensure that each category of vehicle Is being
charged for at least the avoldable costs of road use.
2*       The analysis developed during appralsal basically compares
revenues and costs for each vehicle type, based on average estimates of
their use of the national road network. On the revenue side, specific user
charges were considered just as those procoods of tax rovenues lovied on
road users, over and above the resource cost of any Input and of the
general taxation level on the economy. Road costs were estimated based on
* rational Investment ctr-tegy, targeted at keeping existing road  sets tat
average condition, as recommended In a maintenance study financed under the
Bank's Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 1846-GU). Following available
physical evidence for road deterioration, costs, disaggregated for four
categories of roads, were then allocated to different determinants of road
use. These include, essentially, the space-use of vehicles and the loads
they Impose on pavea'nts, and time and weathering factors. For the latter,
an allowance ranging from 35 to 451 in road variable costs was made
(depending on road type), based on the road deterioration equations of the
Bank-developed Highway Design and Maintenance Model-Release II (HDM-II).
Legitlmate road user costs could then be estimated for each of five
representative categories of vehicles currently making use of the paved and
gravel road networks.
3.       Tho comparison of road user chargoe  and costs for each category of
vehicle, aggregated for the national road network as a whole, Is prosonted
In Table 1 of this Annex. The more detalled analycie Is available In the
Project File (Annex 12). Overall, this comparison shows that all vehicle
categories are being charged for at least the associated short-term
variable costs of road use. Under the Action Plan for the proposed
project, road user costs and charges would be periodically monitored in
order to ensure the recovery of at least the road routlne and periodic
maintenance costs Imposed by each catei)ry of vehicle, as presented In
Annex 7. Moreover, the National Transport Plan study, to be financed under
the proposed loan, would review the existing road user charges sytem,
particularly in terms of intermodal competition, and recommend any
adjustments if so warranted (Annex 6). The implementation of its
recommendations thereof is also contemplated under the Action Plan.
December 1987



- 64 -
ANMEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Table I
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road User Cheroes and Costs
(tn US cents per vehicle - km) J
Paseenger                      ~~~~~~Trucak
Cors      Pickume  fuse   Truck*  Combination
Revenues from User Charge            1.77        2.eo     j J     2.11        2.84
Fuel Taxes V                    1.48        1.87     6.79    1.7         1.6
Tolls                           o.tn        6.01     6.68    0.64        0.04
Others V                        6.28        6.12    6.78    0.86         0.64
Variable Road Coats t
Short-term V                    0.19        0.88     1.02    2.0         2.82
Lono-Torm 2/ o.2                                     1.U    2.eo         8.02
Coversee
Short-term                                                   1.00        1.01
Above 1.00
Long-term                                                    6.61        6.77
/   At mid-1986 prices.
V/  In excess of the resource cost of fuel, but net of VAT (7X of wholesale price).
!I   Mostly Import duties, vehicle registration and other taxes, In exe s  of econoy-wide
averages.
i/ Net of a 85-46x allowance for time and weathering (depending on road type).
!/   Routine and periodic maintennce coats.
/   As In footnote E/I  plus rehabilI tation costs.
Source: Miscion estiiat-s
October 1987



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
GUATEKALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Administration
A. DGC's Organization
1.       NCTOP exercises its responsibilities in the highway subsector
through the General Directorate of Roads (DGC). The present organization
of DGC (Chart II) and its responsibilities to plan, built, maintain, and
administer the main road network, are established in Executive Decree of
May 28, 1920 and in its regulations approved on October 25, 1971 and May
14, 1986.
2.       DGC is headed by a General Director and assisted by a Deputy
General-Director and a Deputy Administrative-Director. The organizational
arrangement in support of its specific activities, includess (a) a Planning
Unitt reporting directly to the Office of the Director; (b) three
divisions, covering road design, quality control and specifications;
construction supervision, and road maintenance, respectively; (c) five
service Departments, In charge of personnel, procurement and supplies;*
budgets and accounting; transportation; training, and operation of the
vehicle weight stations; (d) other service units such as legal and internal
audit, reporting directly to the Office of the Director; and (e) executing
units in charge of the administration and control of projects financed by
international lending agencies.
3.       DGC's total personnel comprises 11,000 people, of which 262 are
engineers, economists, accountants and administrators; 718 operators and
mechanics; 1077 administrative employees, and 8,929 laborers. In addition
to the above, about 5,500 temporary laborers are working under a feeder
road rehabilitation program, with the use of labor-intensive methods,
financed by USAID.
4.       DGC's organizational structure is basically sound, but needs to be
strengthened. The proliferation within DGC of temporary executing units,
with parallel responsibilities for technical and administrative control of
projects, while with positive results in terms of subproject
implementation, has had little or no Impact upon the improvement of DGC's
central technical departments. Inadequate coordination between divisions
and units have, over the last few years, diminished DGC's effectiveness,
and frequent changes at high management level have added to the problem.
Changes in the present organization have been initiated to centralize under
the technical division Important functions, actually dispersed among
divisions and units, such as the monitoring and evaluation of road
conditions, and the preparation of recommendations for the improvement of
construction methods, field supervision practices and maintenance policies.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
B. Road Maintenance
5.       Maintenance of about 12,500 km of the main road network is under
the responsibility of DGC. Other two agencies, responsible for
agricultural or regional development, such as the National Institute for
Agrarian Reform (INTA) and the National Enterprise for Economic Growth and
Development of the Poten (FYDEP), have the responsibility for the
maintenance of some 4,100 km of penetration roads, and 832 km of feeder
roads in the Peten, respectively. However, the lack of financial resources
and technical staff prevent these two agencies from carrying out their
functions at an acceptable level. The ongoing policy of gradual expansion
of DGC's maintenance responsibilities will largely depend on a significant
increase of DGCs' maintenance allocations.
6.       DGC exercises its maintenance responsibilities through eight
geographical maintenance zones (IBRD Map 20843), a centrally controlled
section for asphaltic works, and several mobil units for periodic
maintenance of gravel roads organized and equiped under the previous Bank
projoct (Loan 1846-5U). Each zone is headed by a chief engineer assisted
by a deputy, and is subdivided into fivo to ten districts. A Maintenance
Engineering Department, at the Division's headquarters, responds for the
systematic prograuuung, planning and monitoring of road maintenance
activities. This Department, established in 1986, constitutes a lasting
achievement of the Bank-financed Highway Maintenance Project (Loan
1846-GU). Overall, DGCCs Maintenance Division employs 9,000 persons. This
organizational structure (Chart III) is adequate for Its actual needs.
7.       A key element in DGC's road maintenance strategy is the survey and
control of vehicle weight and axle-load in order to ensure that pavements
are protected from premature deterioration. A 9-ton load for single axle
is currently being enforced through nine vehicle weighing stations,
operating at the national level. Axle-loads and maximum vehicle weights
(ley de Pesos y Dimensiones - Marzo 1985) are reasonable, and are in line
with those of other Central American countries. Although, in recent years,
control of vehicle weight was suspended several times due, inter-alia, to
the inefficiency of the existing manually operated system and to the lack
of funds for their operation, the purchase of automatic control systems,
financed under Loan 1846-GU, will substantially iprove station operation
and control. In order to ensure an adequate cash-flow for station
operation and maintenance, MCTOPIDOC would propose adjustments to the
existing by-laws, which would ensure that revenues from fines are allocated
with priority to this purpose (Annex 7). The existing system would be
further complemented by portable vehicle weighing scales to be procured
under the proposed project (Table 3.4 of the main text).
8.       Prior Bank assistance in the sector helped to establish a
maintenance management system and train staff, while also funding the
renewal of DGC's road maintenance equipment fleet. Execution of road
maintenance activities, however, have been delayed or postponed mainly
because of disruptions arising from severe budget cuts, combined with the
irregular release of budgeted resources   The proposed project would
support DGC's efforts to ensure that improvements achieved to date in road



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
maintenance planning and field operations are not diluted or lost, and to
strengthen the force-account establishment by the countrywide
implementation of the road maintenance and equipment management systems.
This would require technical assistance and a continued effort in training.
The project would also support the purchase of complementary road
maintenance equipment (para. 3.11 of the main text).
C. Enitneerina Construction and Supervision
9.       DOC's technical division, responsible for highway engineering,
comprises four departments: Highway Design, Bridge Design, Soils and
Materials, and Specifications. Roads are engineered normally by in-house
staff and to a limited extent, in case of major projects, by local
consultants, generally in joint venture with foreign firms. DGC's
Technical Department has good expertise in design and is adequately
staffed, although in the last few years, it has been overburdened with
feeder road design, which went beyond its installed capabilities, resulting
in delays in project preparation. About 9 local firms, vith capacity to
carry out highway design works ore registered at the Secretariat for
Economic Planning. Geometric design standards are adequate for local
conditions.
10.     Although, In the past major construction works were carried out by
foreign contractors, with partitipation of local firms as subcontractors,
now most of the higbway construction Is done by local contractors. The
register for prequalified contractors kept at MCOPT, Includes 12 domestic
firms with a total annual capacity of over US$80 million. In addition to
this potential, the Guatemalan Army Corps of Engineers, carries out, by
force-account, the improvement and construction of earth and gravel roads
of military significance. DGC's force-account works, widely used in the
past for road construction and rehabilitation, would be definitely
abandoned under the proposed project, to restore effectiveness to DGC9s
routine and periodic maintenance operations.
11.     Supervision of civil  orks is under the responsibility of DGC's
construction division, which employs consultants for supervision of large
and medium size construction projects. Minor construction works are
generalLy supervised by DGC's permanent staff or by temporarily hired
personnel to handle overflow of work.
D. Trainint
12.     Training programs within the DGC have been formally
institutionalized since about 1982. Bank Loan 1846-GU was instrumental in
estabLishing the training department and in implementating a four-year
training program aimed at improving the standard of highway maintenance
through the retraining and upgrading of road and equipment maintenance
personnel.
13.     The planning and coordination of DGC training activities are
carried out by the Training Department (TD) under the General Directorate.
The TD includes five engineers, five technicians, 14 instructors and 35



-68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
clerical and ser,ice personnel (secretaries, drivers, printing operation,
cleaning, warehouse and guards). Training activities are executed using
DGC Guatemala City training center for heavy machine maintenance,
agreements with various training sources available in Guatemala tmainly for
training administrative personnel) and Training Production Units (TPU) for
training foremen, overseers, equipment operators and drivers. TPU conduct
maintenance operations on selected road segments in various DGC zones.
14.      During 1986, training courses ranging from 30 to 250 hours were
offered for about 990 persons. About 751 of thes- persons were
administrative and service personnel, 151 professional and 10 foremen and
skilled workers in road and equipment maintenance. However, foremen and
skilled workers in road and equtpment maintenance personnel make up about
60S of the total personnel and he administrative and service personnel
represent only 35Z of the total. Furthermore, although engineers and
technicians need to be upgraded in technical aspects, the majority of the
courses offered for these levels were short videos in human relations, time
administration, report writing, occupational safety and preparation of
training memorandum. The improvement of the existing training framework,
particularly through more rational targeting of training efforts, would be
a key objective to be pursued under the Action Plan for the proposed
project, as detailed In Annexes 7 and 8.
December 1987



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A.       General
1.       The economic analysis of road investments under the proposed
project was carried out in two stages. First, a number of overall
maintenance policies were evaluated for the road network (paved and
unpaved) to establish a recommended expenditure strategy. Next, individual
road subprojects ware selected and defined within the context of the
recommended maintenance policy and subject to specific economic evaluation.
In both stages of analysis, the Bank developed Highway Design and
Maintenance Model-release II (HDM-II), as adapted to the local conditions
of Guatemala by consultants financed under Loan 1846-GU, was used.
Basically the model applies the results of empirical research to the
exploration of design and maintenance policy alternatives for actual road
networks. The model framework allows for the simulation of the physical
deterioration of roads, and of the restoractive effects of specified
maintenance policies, given the data on existing road characteristics and
local conditions and on estimates of future traffic levels and composition.
The objective is to determine that combination of standards and policies
which result In the min4mum total life-cycle costs, Including costs to road
users and costs born by the highway authority. The economic analysis of
the bridge component of the proposed project was carried out independently.
Siumary results for the economic evaluation of project investments,
Including sensitivity analysis, are presented in Table 3.8 of the main
text. Average vehicle operating costs, for different types of vehicles, as
a function of road type and condition, are presented in Table 1 of this.
Anex
B.       Economic Formulation of the Road Maintenance Stratesy
2.       The roads comprising the national highway network were classified
in homogneous sections according to surface type, existing condition and
traffic volume. For each section, road deterioration and maintenance
activities were szimulated over a 20-year analysis period for a number of
maintenance policies. For each policy, road maintenance and vehicle
operating costs were computed, discounted to the initial year, and
subtracted from the costs associated the 'without-case' situation, to give
the net-present value for each section.
3.       Eight maintenance policies were tested for paved roads and four
for unpaved roads. The policies were defined in terms of alternative
engineering processes and of the frproved structural and performance levels
associated with each of them. On paved roads the alternatives simulated
range from different levels of low-cost pothole patching, through more



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
costly asphalt concrete overlaying, to full reconstruction of surface and
base. On unpaved roads, policies simulated consisted primarily of a
combination of different frequencies of blading with potho'a feeling and
regravelling. Whenever applicable, policies have been dpecified on a
condition responsiveness fashion, this is, policies aould be endogenously
activated upon pavement deterioration reaching a pre-specified level.
Tablo 2 of this Annex snt-arizes the maintenance policies that were
simulated and evaluated.
4.       The alternatives yielding the highest net present value for each
road section, for a discount rate of 121, were then selected. The
recommendad expenditure strategy, however, had to reflect the fact that the
budgetary resources an# absorptive capacity of DGC are limited.
Accordingly, the recommended investment program was heuristically adjusted,
In order to reflect economic returns, at the margin, for each road section.
For paved roads, in good or regular condition, resealing is recommended if
traffic levels are below 1000 AADT, otherwise overlays should be applied;
If their condition Is poor, than full rehabilitation is recommended. For
unpaved roads, the selected strategy ossentially Involves grading for
traffic levels below 100 AADT, and gravelling or regravelling if traffic is
between 100 and 350 AADT. A summary of the re..mmended strategy, including
an estimate of the associated ranges of economic returns, is presented in
Table 2.9 of the main text. Technical assistance. to be provided under the
-ptoposed project allows for the Installation in DGC of the release III of
the HDN, which incorporates, inter-alia; updated mathematical prograeming
techniques In support of investment optitization, under budget constraints
(Annex 6).
C.       Economic Evaluation of Proiect Investments
5.       For subprojects under the secondary road rehabilitation and
mprovement component, direct economic benefits to be derived by highway
users were estimated from the reduction in vehicle operating costs, mainly
maintenance, depreciation and crew time, resulting from Improved surface
condition. These savings are the outcome of the proposed investments,
which basically comprise regravelling operations, considered with a 5-year
frequency. Additional cost savings for the highway authority were also
estimated under the form of reduced routine maintenance expenditures
between successive regravelling operations.
6.       Slmilarly to the unpaved road component for subprojects under the
Altiplano road rehabilitation and strengthening component, user benefits
wer estimated on the form of vehicle operating costs and time savings
resulting from reductions in surface roughness. Benefits accruing to the
highway authority also comprise cost savings arising from less intensive
routine and periodic maintenance requirements during the analysis period,
while incremental costs essentially involve an earlier investment In road
rehabilitation, both with respect to the without-project" case.
7.       For the economic evaluation of the first group of subprojects
under the bridge component, DGC used a model which allows for the



-71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
quantification of the benefits accruing to agricultural producers or to
transporters, as a result of decreasing transport costs.  Basically,
bridges belonging to the same stretch of road were packaged in one circuit,
each associated with one area of influence, which was quantified. Next,
benefits were estimated, based on the foreseeable increases ln agricultural
output in the area of influence, arLsing from bmproved accessibility, or on
savings in vehicle operating costs. Thls is the outcome of the proposed
livestments in bridge replacement, which would ensure all-weather
comuanication, release restrictions on the use of heavier, more efflcient,
trucks, or avoid costly dlversions of trefflc whenever road alternative
are available.
D.       Basic AssumptLons Used in the Economlc Analysis
S.       The following baslc assumptions were used in the economlc
nalysls:
(a) Traffic
Traffic projectlons for road subprojects are based on the 1986
traffic counts, and they were carried out for five independent
vehicle categories, comprising passenger cars, pick-ups, buses,
trucks and truck oobifnatLons. Assumed AADT' a annual growth rates
vary from 2.52 for prlvate cars, plek-up. and buses, to 31 for
trucks and truck combinationsi. Newly gonerated trafflc has beon
considered on a case-by-case basis, as a function of
infrastructure-related user costs reductions resulting from the
proposed lnvestments. No leisure time savings were consldered.
(b) Economic Costs
Investment costs are based on financlal costs, including a 121
overhead for engineering design and construction supervlsion
whenever applicable, and a further 10 for physical contingencies.
Investment, maintenance and vehicle operating costs were
considered in constant mid-1986 values, net of taxes and of other
transfer payments. Fuel costs, in particular, were taken at their
ci.f. prico plus distributlon charges.
(c) Period of Analvsis
The analysis period was assumed at 20 years for all road
subprojects. In the case of bridges, a conservative project lift
of 12 years has been considered.
December 1987



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
Table 1
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Averat. Economic Vehicle O,eratinR Costs
(costs in Q. per 1,000 km, at mid-1986 prices)
Road Type             Vehicle Tyve  1/                   Condition
Good         Resular       Poor
1                181            228         259
Asphalt                     2                 234            292         330
Concrete                    3                 362            468         538
4                577            726          826
5                877          1,086        1,225
1                200            245         275
Surface                     2                 260            321         362
Treatment                   3                 420            526         597
4                656            808          909
5                972          1,159        1,283
1                242            331         390
2                325            429          499
Gravel                      3                 541            738         869
4                805          1,051        1,215
5              1,140          1,510        1,757
1                313            411         477
2                435            548          624
Earth                       3                 751            956       1,093
4              1,047          1,318        1,498
5              1,474          1,898       2,181
I/  1 - Passenger cars; 2 - pickups; 3 - buses and light trucks; 4 - trucks
and heavy buses; and 5 - truck combinations.
Source: DGC and mission estimate
October 1987



MATEMALA
8SAVAMS E!SNAL ROAD RIS!IUTATION PROECT
Roead  imac Ateav
A. PAVE ROADS
ALT,               PATOUN                                                   OY1T
(9 OF PNLE
AO                    St-                                            
AS                    U                                      ---
Al                   1 
A                    is           S  at s  of Crcked Area                                               -
AS                  1i                       -                           AC at 4,1oh                    -
A4         1      0                          -                     a  M AC atS,1 R                      -
AS                   la                      -                     I_d 7  m  * AS
AS                   in                      -                     Ind 76 m * A4                        -
A?                   log                     -                                                 lood. Rec... + AS
AS                   its                                                     -Insd. Recon. + A4
B. U         S
ALT. NO.             RMS                   SP  RECRVELLIOE
AO               over/pear            No  more than 20 c/year         1_  - gravel It thick, below So l
Al               S timme/pear         Not wre thn 20 cm/pear          0  _ gravel it thick, below W  _
A2               5 tim4 /ear          Not oore than 20 Go/par         1N  _ gravel it thick, below  s _
AS               7 tise/pear          Not ore than 20 cm/Yur          10i    gravel It thick, below So _
A4               9 t1ise/pear         Noa more then 20 co/year         N  - gravel it thick, below So                        ". '
Source: DOC                                                      0'mF
O r
October 1067



-74 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
GUATEKALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Trainina Program
Obiectives
1.       The project's training component alms at:
(a) Strengthening the performance capabilities of the General
Directorate of Roads'.(DGC) personnel by Improving and expanding
the training programs for about 65Z of managers, technicians,
foremen, skilled workers services and administrative personnel;
and
(b) Upgrading DGC's training organization by:
(i)  making the management, professional, and technician training
functions a priority activity;
(ii)   better utilization of the training opportunities already
available in Guatemala;
(ii) training DOC's staff and lnstructors in charge of carrying out
training activities;
(iv) Improving the capability of DGC's training section In
assessing training needs; and planning, implementing and
monitoring training activities; and
(v) improving training facilities, equipment and training
resources (learning material, audiovisual aids, etc).
Description of the Training Program
2.       DGC's training program for the period 1988 - 1994 has been defined
in the context of the objectives pursued under the proposed the project.
With assistance from the Bank, DGC's Training Department has designed a
training program to improve the performance capabilities of about 7,100
people or about 652 of the current number of staff employed. Annex 8 shows
the number of people to be trained by category each year. The training
program includes about 480 events in the form of courses, seminars, study-
tours abroad and on-the-job training. About 364 courses will be organized
and executed by DGC training department using DGC own instructors and
facilities. About 90 courses will be developed under agreements with
external training agencies like INTECAP, Universities, INAP and SINAFOC.



- 75 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
However, in all cases courses contents will be defined by DOC technical
specialists under the supervision of the training department.
Components of the Training Program
3.       To Implement the training program, the proposed project provides
fort (i) improvement of training equipment; (1i) execution of the training
program; and (iii) expatriate and local advisors and study visits abroad.
Also, in order to improve the quality of the training in the Guatemala
heavy machine maintenance and repair training center, modern training
equipment and learning material would be financed under the loan.
Execution of the Training Protrem
4.       The training program under the proposed project includest (i) per
diem and transportation for about 2,000 participants; (i1) per diem for 14
instructors and 8 training department staff; (iii) training materials for
364 courses to be executed directly by DOC; (iv) training to upgrade the
instructors technical and pedagogical skills; (v) about 90 courses to be
contracted vith training organizations within the country; (vi) a masters'
program in highway engineering and plAnn4ng to be executed in coordination
with a qualified local university; and (vii) organization of 5 seminars for
coordination of the training activities to be attended by training
department prsonnel, regional training corrdinators and members of the
training advisory committee. The content of the courses would be defined
through the analysis of specific requirement of the occupational groups.
Provisfon has also been made uider the project to hire foreign and local-
specialists to train DGC nAstructors in training methodologies, evaluation,
preparation and use of training aids.
5.       Under the training component, DGC would also update Its job
description manual for all DGC persarel categories as well as devolop
specific studies to evaluate the Impact of the training program.
External Instructors and Study visits
6.       Foreign (14 staff/months) and local advisors (6 staff/months)
would be engaged to assist DGC In the organization and implemontation of
the training program.  Activities related to this consultant services
Includes (i) designing a monitoring and evaluation system for the overall
program; (1$) developing new instructional methodologies especially
distance learning; ($11) designing and preparing instructional material;
and (iv) establishing a documentation and lnformation system In training.
Provision has also been made to provide training abroad through technical
study visits for 17 manager and high levol professional staff and 4
p       professional staff and instructors of the training department. The latter
would provide opportunity for a selected group of DGC manager and high-
level staff In the highway planning, engineering and maintenance fields to



- 76 -
Page 3 of 3
be exposed to technological development in other countries as well as in
the planning and organization of suitable training programs.
Administration of the Trainina Proaram
7.       DGC training section would be responsible for (i) plan, organize,
imploment, and monitor the training program; (i) *stabl_ah agreement with
external training agencies; (iii) evaluate the result of the training
program. To facilitate the training section's coordinating activities
with the regions and districts meetings would be organised once a year to
discuss the training plan and Implementotion problem. A National Advisory
Committee would be established to deal with training policies, strategies
end priorities; training advisory committees would also be established in
each reg4in as part of the national structure for training.
Cost Estimate
8.       The basic cost of the training component Is estimated at about.
US$1.0 million equivalent, as detailed in Table 3.6 of the main text.
Detailed cost estimates for each component of the training program sre
available in the Project File (Annex 10).
July 1988



- 77 -
ARME 6
Page 1 of 2
GUATENALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
Backarouad. The technical assistance program would support the
Implementation of tho Action Plan presented in Anne" 7.    The program
would addrose key issues identified during project preparation and
appraLial; the Implementation of its recomm ndations, sa agreed with the
Government during negotiationas, would contribute to address important
bottlenecko to a more efficient sector management. The scope of the
program covers transport planning and highway managment.
2.       Transuort Plannrnt. Technical assistance services would cover the
preparation of the National Trasport Plan (NTP), and of a strategy for the
implementation of its recommendations thereof. The preparation of the NTP
would comprise the following main taskss (a) installation of a consistent
sector data base, for the various modes of transport, including demand
patterns, supply characteristics, operations, and tariffs and user charges;
(b) development of an analytical framework capable of projecting transport
demand and of allocating it on a spatially disaggregated basis to
substitute transport modes, as a function of their relative attributes to
users; (c)  eneration and oconomic evaluation of  ltornative investment
strategies, including environmental ssessmont; (d) elaboration of a
pluriannual sector exponditure end funding program, taking into account
economic priorities, and its foreseeable Impact in terms of foreign
exchange earnings/savings,. and fiscal implications; (e) diagnostic and
recomnndatIons on required measures for lmproved Government role in the
transport sector, and on asociated institutional development measures; and
(f) training of a national counterpart teem. Under the Action Plan,
technical assistane efforts wuld assist the Government in setting the
framework for the regular preparation of rolling pluriannual sector
operating plans, lncludinw adequate mechanisms for monitoring and follow-
up, and In the development of a phased strategy for the impleamtatLon of
i       the NTP's recomsendations.
i 3.     Highway M    ensement. The tchnaLal ssistance services vould
i       covers
(a)  Pro1-ct Monitorint System
I1dress existing constraints to the systematic control of the
General Directorate of Roads' (DGC) investment and funding
program, In support of improved absorption of foreign credit and
budgetary resources. Development of a comprehensive information
system and of monitoring indicators In financial and physical
terms.
(b) Road Planning
Improve existing procedures for compilation utnd analysis of road
data, for identification of investments needs snd criteria for



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
individual investment and budgetary decisions in the preparation
of pluriannual investment and budgetary programs   Introduction of
the Bank-developed Highway Design and Maintenance Model-Release
III in support of improved investment planning under budget
constraints.
(c) Pavement Evaluation
Introduction of modorn pavement surveying techniques to assess
pavement behavior and performanco based on the existing
information systems. Results of pavement evaluation would serve
as an input to a continuous follow-up process, in upport of
improved quality control, construction procedures and monitoring
of maintenance activities.
(d) Contract Supervision
Review and revise, as appropriate, the existing road
specifications and introduce improved construction supervision
techniques and reporting systemo. These systems would contribrte
to rationalize fi4ld supervision by DOC staff, and to prepare a
framework for an effective use of contracted supervision.
(ce) Road Maintenance and Equipment Nanasemegt
Based upon the existing maintenance management system_,
*        improvemnt of procedures and operations for routine and periodic
maintenance works that uill reult in optimum utilization of
equipment, facilitios, manpower and materials, and in their
country-wid, coverage.
(f) Linancial System
Improv  financial managemant system  within DGC, Including
computerization of transactions and other budgetary procedures and
development of a cost accounting framwork at the project level.
July 1988



SE£C(AIY An   EoL   m    RU TATON PROJECT
ACTIUN nA  Q900-1  4
Obii1ctv                    fIn Attlon                                         Rosoonsibililt      Timins         In o    ct Envi _sad
(i) Transport Manosmont
- Enuure that all road          Fuol taxes end            Adjust  a rsquired       MCTP/Oovenmnt    1909/S4           Eonure adsquat  leYls of cost
vhiclos are charged for,      rnmin=ng *loomnt                                                                      recovery free read users
at lest, the associated       of the rod usr
road routine and periodic     carges  system
inatonance ost.
- Formulation of sector         National Transport        Task Force               UCTOP/Gove ramnt    12/09          Ensur  coordination witt
policias                      Plan                                                                                  core Uinis-ries.
Short list of.
Contracting
tdy                     MCTO .
Prorm for
implementation          gC1OP                6/2
Implementation and
monitorlng              1CTOP/Overn.ent    1992/94          Pluriannual lnvetamet
program, cost-recovery an
economic regulation
policy, Institutional
coordination, and
onviromntal assessment.
(1i) Hichway Administration
- Improved planning and         RolIln  prrm,            Consultant selection.  DCC                    C/9C          Plurinnual economic-basd  nd
programe  ng                  ND-III                                                                                expenditur   nd funding progrm
Contracting study.      DuC                  7/90
Impl_eatetlon.          DCC                  8/f1           Monitoring at the subproJt
Evniuot7on              HCTOP                7J91           I plon nt t70n in oth er
sector agencies
- Rationalization of program    Program Coordination      Institutionalzation   DGC/dtTOP               6/91          Accomplishment ot program
imple_mntotion and            Unit                                                                                  gools and objectivau
follow-up



Ob3ectlve                   Instrument               Action                   R.nmonsibilItv      Timing        Iroact Envisaged
Annual work plan
approvel                                     1806/94
Preparation of
follow-up reports       DOC                  1980/94
(ii) Contract Administration
- Increase the participatien   Adjust contracting        Contract all             DCC                 1988/94       Reduce costs and
of th- private sector         polley                   construction end                                            implementation delays
rehab1iltation works
for primary and
secondary roads
Progressively contract DCC                   1  3/94       Free DCC's own resoure s
periodic maintenance                                       for routine *intenance
of roads In accordance
with targets
- Improve supervision           External conseultants    Contract Study           DCC                 1/99           Fre  DGC'. resources for
mnageriol tasks                co
Consultants'            DC                   6/99
recmmeendation
Implemntation           CCC                  1/91          Rationalize quality
control in the field
(IV) Maintenance Mansament
- Coordination of programning  Road snd equipment        Seloction of
with execution                manag_ment *ystenI       Consultants              DCC                 6/9
Reviow of existing
procedure               DCC                 6/91
Iplementation In all  DCC                    198S/92       Increas  efficiency
road districts, In                                         of reource use
accordance with
taergte
- Balance budget                Personnel mnag ement    Policy rationalization  DuC                   1988/94        Increase
In accordance with                                         productivity
targets.
'U
_   _   _  _  _                    _  _  _~~~~



Oblective                   Instrument               Action                 Rbeo.slbiIltv        Timina       Immact EnvisaIEd
- Decrease exces vhlelo        Axle weight control      Preparation of adjust- UCTOP                 1/99          Increas  the economic
load                                                   sents to regulations                                     lIf* of paved roads
ApprovaI of             Ooverrmet           7/0
adjuostments
Acquliition of         DOC                  1/91          bmprove control
mobile equipment                                          Systems
- Ilprove pavemnt omitoring  Pavement evaluation        Selection of            DoC                  lJ99
ConsuItnte
Rlecome_ndtion          DaC                 12/9          Coat effective preservation
of paved roads
Implemntatlon          DoC                  6/91
(v) Financial Manasoment
- Improve accounting systew   Rationallzation of        Selection of            DuC                  6/9
methodis                Coneultante
Implenontotion          OCc                 6/91          Cost-accounting by project
Improved processing of
transactions
(vi) Training and Technical Assistance
- Implement agreed             Or nlaaiaon of           Execute coure           DaC                  1946-94      tIprov DCC personnel
training program              Internal and external   In accordanc                                               capability, and reduce
course for about        with targets                                               operating costa
6X of the personnel



Obiectiv                    Inntru K-e                                       RontonalblltY       Tilins        Imoact Envlesed
- Improwe the quality           Foreln and local        Implementation          NC                  19C9/94
and coverage ot the           technical eooperatieo
training program.
Stdy visite to          Implontatloa             DuC                 I969/94       Tehnol,gy tranft r.
foreign coustries
MUster's progra In       Creation                QGC/Unlverlty       1996/1691
Reed Enginring
and Planning.
Prowide ft llIeehpe    DC/University        1996/91       Improve program quality.
to Univerelty
Frotegeon.
Doevlop  weochiI         Coetracte to eoxecuoe    D                  12/59         Improve and update traeining
studlie.                 the  teudles.                                             curricula, end evaluate         co
the results of the tralaini    r
coure.I
Coordinate elnlarn.    Orga lse* alnaore         DC                  196/94        Improve internal comunicatlons
annually.                                                 for Implementing the national
training plan In the DC.
- Implement training            Incorporste the          Budget approval        DNC                  1/9
activitles.                   the training
dbpertment Into DOCC'
permanent adainiatra-
tIve atrueure
Incorporation           NC                   /J           Provide stability to trainong
department, personnel and
training program.
Source: DOC and mission
July 1968
C



3E0R  Ai  REGorNAL ROD  RpI'UTATI .OJEC
M A C'. ProArD m Tomato fl01
DO-C19s              1P L              , 1992           19" 4
investn T
kmo  Tertlary Road Constrctlon.                                  411      On1      456      $5        m       2M6       183
km of Road Strengthenlng end  mpm.veomt1 of which                466     2Su       2        251      U4        M6       436
Prlmry Road                                                    so      161      171       1n       71        79       of
Secondry Roads                                                 70       s       115      127      2U        271      526
Trtiary Itoads                                                M         1        12        -        -         -        -
km ot Periodlc Mainten, of which                                 452      462      440      440      517       587      637
Contracted                                                      -        -        -        -      1i7       187      187
Force Account                                                 462      452      440      440      4(        4(6      401
km of Road Paving                                                 28       46       49       82       29        22       16
Equipment Productivity Tart _
Availabiity ( ot 22 annual worklg day)                            76       75       76        a        of       a        o
Utlization (U of annual ovallableworking hours)                  66       70       76       76        7C       76       76
Ormanixational Tarnmt.
UnqualIfied maintenan  personnel e_p_ae/
total maintennce budet (X)                                       66       of       5        a         so       45       49
Introduction of Maintenanc Manamet Systema   )                    2M5      J5       s        76       lo      1in       100
Personnel Training (No.), of wbich                        8                M9i    98    1'M         1,94     1,171    1,116
Mangers and Profe onal                                          6        a        8       10        10       10       19
Technicians                                                    40       40       46       so        55       G        70
Administrative                                                 70       76       70       70        75       6o       e6
Service                                                       210      229      230      249       260      260      2680
Foreman and Skilled Workors                                  6so      0so       0        633       6        a"       6090
Sourc: DOC and misson estimates
July 1666



- 84 -
ANNEX 9
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Accountinz and Auditing
A. General
1.      Accounting principles and practices applied in Guatemala are
regulated by Decree No. 2-70 of January 1970 (Codigo de Comercio). The
Code also covers the preparation and presentation of the most important
financial statements. Since January 1979, the General Directorate of Roads
(DGC) applies generally accepted accounting principles, and a uniform and
integrated Goverrment accounting system based on the budgetary system.
B  Accounting
2.       DGC's accounting and financial functions are the reponsibility of
the Financial Department, which is composed of the Accounting, Budget and
Bank Loan Transaction Sections. The accounting system is operated on the
basis of the Government's Manual of Accounting applied to all Public Sector
Institutions. DGC has Implemented a computerized accounting system, which
needs to be mproved to include the auxiliary books of accounts payable and
control of fixed assets. The implementation of the inventory control is
under way. All *ccounts rolated to the budgetary systems require to be
computerized. Till December 1984, financial statements were issued within
45 days, but currently they are issued with a delay of four months, because
the processing of DOC's accounting is done by the Da - Pi.ocessing
Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, which is overa -pled. The proposed
project would provide for the acquisition of data processing equipment to
improve the accounting procedures of the DGC (para. 3.11 of the main text).
C. Auditina
3.       DGC's accounts are audited by the Contraloria General de Cuentas,
but the internal auditing section of DGC is responsible for its internal
control and carries out the internal auditing in provinces in accordance
with an annual program, which is periodically revised. As agreed with
other international agencies, DGC has satisfactory arrangements for
external auditors.
4.       It is expected, as mentioned before, that the improvements in the
accounting system would permit preparation of financial statements on time
for the external auditors to produce timely audit reports. DGC's audit
reports would be furnished to the Bank as soon as available but, in any
case, not later than five months after the end of each fiscal year.
December 1987



- 85 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
GUATEMALA
SECONDARY AND REGIONAL ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
A.  General Information on the Sector or Subsector
1.  Memoria de L-bores del MCTOP, 1986.
2.   Propuesta de Plan del Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Transporte y
Obras Pablicas, 1987-1990, 1986.
3.   Memoria de Antecedentes y Descriptiva del Sector Transporte, 1987.
4. Manual de PlanificacLon y Programacion Presupuestaria del Sector
Publico de Guatemala, Ministerio de Finanzas P6blicas, 1985.
5.   Terminos de Referencia para el Plan Maestro Nacional de Transporte
de la Republica de Guatemala, 1988
6.   Perfil de Proyecto do Cooperaci_n Tecnica Plan Maestro Nacional de
Transportes, 1987.
7.  Terminos de Reforencia para Planificaci_n Vial, 1988.
8.  Torminos de Referencia para el Sistema do Segulmiento de Proyectos
y Presupuesto Plurianual Movil, 1988.
9. Documento sobre Politica Vial, Ministerio de Comunicaciones,
Transporte y Obras Pfiblicas, 1988.
10. Documontos sobre Politica de Capacitaci4n y la Formaci6n del
Camite Consultivo de Capacitaci6n, Direcci_n General de Caminos,
1988.
11.  Documento sobre la Creaci6n de la Unidad Funcional de Control,
Evaluacion y Segutmiento, nombramiento de au Director, y Terminos
do Referenciap Direccion General de Caminos, 1988.
12. Guia General de Evaluacion del Impacto Ambiental, Direcck6n
General de Caminos, 1988.
B. General Reports. Studies and Terms of Reference Relatina to the Proiect
13. Guatemala. Proposed Secondary and Regional Road Rehabilitation
Project. FPina Project Brief and Executive Project Summary, 1987.
14. AMdes-Hemoire of the Reconnaissance, Identification, Preparation,
Pro-appraisal and Appraisal Missions, 1985-1987.
15.  N6mina del Personal a1 Servicio de la DGC, 1988.
16. Registro de Precalificados para Obras, 1986.
17. N&mina Actual de Firmas Consultoras Guatemaltecas Registradas,
1987.
18. Valores Limites para las Caracteristicas de la Carretera en Estado
Final, 1987.
19. Criterios Generales do Mantenimiento aplicados durante el
Ejercicio Fiscal 1986.
20. Publicaciones do Tramos de Inventario, 1985.
21. Ley de Compras y Contrataciones, 1980.
22. Proyecto Ley de Compras y Contrataciones, 1987
23. Puentes de Elementos Modulares Prefabricados de Concreto Armado,
1987.
24. Programa Tentativo de Ejecuci6n y Costoa, 1987.



- 86 -
ANNEX 10
Pag. 2 of 2
25. setudio Prolminar do lo Tramos Prioritarios de Carrottres
Pavlmentadas, 1987.
26. Nap& do 1- Red Vial, 1987.
27. Mitodo de Diagnostico par& e1 Program& do Rohibilitacion y
Nantonamieato do Casinos do Terraceria, 1987.
28. Reglamonto pore *1 Control do Pesos y Dimonsionos de Vohiculos
Automotores y sue Combinacionor, 1985.
29. Modificaciones Propuests a 1- Ley do Pesos y Dimensionos do
Vehiculos Automotores, 1987.
30. TSrminos de Raferencia paz Consultoria de Supervislon (borrador),
1987.
31* Modelo de Baes do Licitecion Ptiblica Internacionel par- Compras
do Nquinria (borrador), 1987.
32. Modelo do BDses do Liciteci&i P&blica Internecional par& Obras
Clviles (borrador), 1987.
33. List, Tentativa de los Sistoemas d Puentoes, 1987
34. Evaluaci6a Econmica, do los Subproyoctos Viales, 1987.
35.  Zvaluaci6n Economica del  istema do Puontes par Caminos
Socundxrios y Torcierios, 1987.
36. Programs do Trabajo, Capaeitacin, 1987.
37. Campow tec do Capa-:ta4iSn del Proyecto do RhabilitaciSn do
Caminos Secundarios y Re;ionales, 1987.
38. Componente do Capacitacion Ajustado del Proyecto do RhabiUltaci6n
do Cam4nos Scundarios Y Regional.., 1987.
39. Tablos for the Training Progrsm, 1987.
40. Submission Criteria for Road Subprojects, including Dota Shoot,
1989.
41.  Tiruino do Referencia pare 1 Evaluacin do Pevisentos, Diriecion
Goneral de Caminos, 1988.
42. Tirminos do Referenci_ par& Asisttncia T&cnica en Adminlstrecin
do Mant-1mliento y Equipo, Dlreccl6n General de Casinos, 1988.
43. Trinos do Roforncia pare Ia Asistoncl  Ticnica on Supervision
do Contratos, D_recclon General do Caminos, 1988.
44. Tirminos do Reforencia pare 1 Administracion Financiora,
D_recc_on Gaeoral do Caminoss, 1988.
45.  Tirinos de Rcforenci pare la Contratac_on do un Asosor a Nivel
Interancional en Formaclon a Distancl-, Dlreccl8n General do
Caminos, 1988.
46.  Tmridno  do Referenici pare la Contratcl6n do un Assor a Nivel
Inutrnacionel pars Recursos Instruccionales, Direccl6n General de
Cainos, 1988.
47. Tocmlos do Referenca pare *1 Zetudlo do Aonlials Ocupaclonal,
Dlrocciln General do Casinos, 1988
48. TrmLinoo do Roforoncie para la Contr-tacion do un Aaosor a Nivel
Internaclonal pare la Evaluaci&a del Program do Capacitacin,
Direccl6n General d Caminos, 1988.
49. Tirminos de Referencia pare Estudios do Ingonieri- pare *1
Mojoramlento do Carreteras Asfaltade, Dlroccl6n Gaeeral do
Caminos, 1988 (bocrador).
50. Tirminos do Reforencia pare Eatudios do Ingonoria par& .1
MNjoramiento do Carreteras do Terraceria, Dlrecclon General de
Caminos, 1988 (borrador).
July 1988



-87-                Chart I
J~~~~               V- I'lr
- -- -__-;---- - __ -  _-_    - _-  -.. --
I§.1   '  i 1                        1
ILII
I  IL~~~~~~~~~~~



Eif
It                   I
II            ~~~~~~~~if
II~~~~~~~~~~~~I
P.                  I
It                                I
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Ii  
11W    -8-11
I      i    E 
RMI
-88  -~~~~~~I



GUATEMAIA
SECONDARY & REGIONAL ROAD REIALIlTA7ION PROJECT
Man wnce DMsbn Ovganbon Sftucum
Sgcsbo r____   5 1   Zaw o 2  Z"4aZe3  lo Z4   l                      Zw*       Zw            X
SOLOM DGC Mahterame DS
5  1987t                                                                                                                                 Wod go      1 m 



I
I
I
i
MAP SECTION
I
I
i
i
I
I
I
I
I
I
i
I



I
I
I
I



IBRD 2
92'
M  E X  I C O 0                                                                                                                                    ;IZE
vr SanMateo lxtat6n                                                                                                                                                                   NC. A*
Nerd6n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PiI
/               SonMaine llarillas                                                                                                                                              U        .- . s$ri\    -
ustla  /                                                                                                                                                                              SSbo.Eulmllo   a TO
LoDeIrnocraoO                                                                                                                                               Son Fde Cststa)
//   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aunElEsr                                                                                          VC54MO
ChojulCON+
Cu    tahuconDSn Juan Coftol                                                                                        enh
SoPula$                   Ve     doz    upwi
->    /    /             '    ,<,                                                   >                 '            ,,.i ~~~~~~~H O N D U R A S
hnchigudn     ot.. 
j Oeiutto                          t,\g                                                                                             ~j 
rAztew                nmque          CuD    u         l      o                                                                                        GUTML
J                 ~~~~~~~~Sibliso
COrmen
son aJal                                                                                                                  ) A                                           SECONDARY AND REGIONAL
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Itoa io.Sr quil  5    \S Marlin    SonP Ps6cm                                                                           Prosect roao
Es*i                                                                     P                            SG                                                                     see7tin
Cootopeque  ~~~~~~~~~~cP          lisl                                                                                      LaAsphalt section
FE  LA cr          A A        S      ro                                                Existing teotursnI
0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~                  -     ~~~~~~~~~~~Paved roads
Vill/a/  >  H   ~ 2   BChiquirnuiilfa   )  >      >/                                                      AllSanSoXbr  weanteroncA weahe roads
-Railroads
u ~ R-tSemdM  /   /   /  (    }   Taxiso:   - \           ry      S   '~'>                                                 ._l Internotional airport
Cruz hbm         El                                                                   O lther airports
Chairperico                                                                                                                                                     4. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IaMain and secondary ports
taeG'a.,.. Navigable rivers
La                                                               Umabo                        ..... ji... ~~~~~~~Ferries
E!                               Nueyo                                                  ist6bal ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~®    Road maintenance zones
Son Sdvador                 -~~~~~~~Maintenaonce zones boundorIes
Chqu                                                                                    ---o . ...International boundaries
Tec6       Contarrono         haDo  h"q"
SonJoel  0/                                                                 ~~ ~~~~~~              ~ 1  0  30    0   50   60w  70   W0
ItlMiTER5
P A CI I  C                                    EAN                                               LOUN                                                                          9    59  20  3D    0 5
MILES
9?r                                                             -                                                    r
JULY



