Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11357 -CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
FEBRUARY 25, 1993
Transport Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1, 1993)
Currency Name: Renminbi
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y) - 100 Fen
$1.00 - Y 5.75
$0.174 - Y 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ctkm -    converted tkm or traffic unit (1 pkm - 1 tkm)
ha   -    2.47 acres
km   -    kilometer [- 0.621 mile (mi)]
m    -    meter (- 3.281 feet)
m    ,    square meter (- 10.764)
mp   =    million passengers
mpkm -    million passenger-kilometers
mppy -    million passengers per year
mt   -    million tons
mtkm -    million ton-kilometers
mtpy -    million tons per year
mu   -    0.1647 acre - 0.0667 hectare (ha)
pkm  -    passenger-kilometer (= 0.621 passenger-mile)
tkm  -    ton-kilometer ( 0.621 ton-mile)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CETE      =    Cost-Effective Technology Evaluation
CIF            Cost, Insurance, and Freight
CPI       -    Consumer Price Index
CRISPP    -    China Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project
EIA       -    Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
GEF       -    Global Environmental Facility
CNP       =    Gross National Product
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IDC       -    Interest During Construction
ISO       -    International Standards Organization
LCL       -    Less-than-Container-Load
MOC       -    Ministry of Communications
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
MOR       -    Ministry of Railways
MPT       -    Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
NBF       =    Not Bank-financed
NPV       -    Net Present Value
RCT       -    Rail-Based Container Transport
RIS       -    Railway Investment Study
SAA       -    State Audit Administration
SC        -    State Council
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditure
SPC       =    State Planning Commission
SPB       -    State Price Bureau
TEUs      =    20-foot equivalent units
TMIS      =    Transport Management Information System
TOT       -    Transfer of Technology
7FYP      -    Seventh Five-Year Plan
8FYP      -    Eighth Five-Year Plan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Pro1ect Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Railways (MOR)
Amount:           $420 million equivalent
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate
Obiectives:       The main objectives of the project are to support MOR's
effort in undertaking: (a) railway policy and management
initiatives; (b) institutional development of the railway
system; (c) expansion of railway capacity; and (d) moderni-
zation of railway technology on a systemwide basis.
Description:      The proposed project would consist of:
A policy component, comprising: (a) the application of the
decision support system developed by MOR with Bank assis-
tance under a Railway Investment Study (RIS) to determine
high-priority capacity expansion projects, and optimize
future railway investment programs; as well as (b) the for-
mulation and implementation of measures and plans to
rationalize the railway tariff system, modernize MOR's
accounting standards, and improve railway management and
MOR's economic contract with the Government.
An investment component, including: (a) a capacity expan-
sion subcomponent comprising electrification of two major
railway corridors totaling 1,790 route-km; (b) three system-
wide technological modernization subcomponents for (i) track
maintenance mechanization, (ii) locomotives and rolling
stock parts manufacture, and (iii) telecommunications and an
initial phase of a Transport Management Information System
(TMIS); and (c) a pilot container transport subcomponent
covering two main railway corridors totaling 5,100 route-km.
A technical assistance component, including the preparation
and implementation of action plans for (a) expanding and
modernizing railway container transport services; (b) imple-
menting more cost-effective railway technology to increase
railway capacity at lower cost; and (c) strengthening MOR's
environmental protection capability and solving some of its
most pressing environmental problems.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits:         The proposed project would contribute directly to China's
effort to reform and modernize its railway subsector. The
project would remove bottlenecks on two of the most impor-
tant links of the national railway network. Through better
resource allocation and better technology, the project would
help improve the efficiency of railway investment. It would
provide underpinnings for rationalization of railway tar-
iffs, revamping of railway accounting standards, and
improvement in railway management and regulation. The proj-
ect represents a major step in systemwide modernization of
railway track, equipment and information technology. The
project would help accelerate the introduction of modern
operational methods and marketing practices to MOR's con-
tainer transport services. Finally, by switching from die-
sel to electric traction, the proposed railway electrifica-
tion would result in a net reduction of air pollution emis-
sions; in particular, it would eliminate high concentrations
of particulates and carbon monoxide in tunnels which pose a
health risk to train crews and passengers.
Risks:            Execution of the investment subcomponents would entail
proven technology already in wide use in China and else-
where. Technological risks are, therefore, small. MOR has
successfully completed similar projects, e.g., line electri-
fication, for many years. For the works with which MOR is
less familiar, e.g., those involving modern telecommunica-
tions and THIS, substantial technical assistance was pro-
vided for their preparation and will continue to be provided
for their execution. The greater risk in this project
relates to the preparation and implementation of policy
recommendations, as well as the transfer of modern manage-
ment techniques. MOR's top management has strongly sup-
ported the policy initiatives launched under the project,
end MOR staff have been fully engaged in preparing all pro-
ject components. Implementation of policy recommendations
would still require strong Government support. The Bank
would provide sufficient staff resources through project
supervision to buttress MOR's reform and modernization
efforts under this project.



- ill -
Proiect Costs:                                 Local         Foreign        Total
---------- ($ million) ----------
Investment component
Capacity expansion                           266.1           423.9        690.0
Track maintenance                             20.9            24.5         45.4
Locomotive & rolling stock parts               3.1            20.5         23.6
Telecommunications and THIS                   91.2           155.2        246.4
Pilot container transport                     30.4            20.3         50.7
Policy & technical assistance components         0.5             8.8          9.3
Base Cost                                 412.2          653.2       1,065.4
Physical contingencies                          18.7            29.1         47.8
Price contingencies                             25.5            44.8         70.3
Total Proiect Cost                        456.4          727.1       1,183.5
Financing Plan:
Ministry of Railways                         456.4           307.1        763.5
IBRD                                           -             420.0        420.0
Total Financing 1/                        456.4           727.1      1,183.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Group FY               1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999
-($------------- ($ million) ---________________
Annual                        32.0      68.0    120.0    115.0      73.0      12.0
Cumulative                    32.0    100.0    220.0    335.0    408.0    420.0
Economic Rate of Return:    23 percent
1/   Import taxes and duties are not included in project costs and the Govern-
ment will not charge such taxes and duties on imports for the project.






- v -
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  TRANSPORT BOTTLENECKS AND REFORMS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
A.    Background    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
B.    Traffic    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  1
Traffic  Growth    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Transport Demand and Modal Split Trends . . . . . . .       2
C. Transport Reforms ..                                             2
D. Bank Group Participation        ..                               3
II. THE RAILWAY SYSTEM..                                                 6
A. Background and Rationale for Bank Involvement . . . . . .        6
B. Traffic and Bottlenecks        ..                                7
C. Management and Regulation ..                                     8
D. Investment and Finance         ..                                9
Investment ..                                               9
Levels of Investment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
Investment Planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      10
Accounting and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      10
Accounting  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
Auditing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
Pricing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
E.  Physical Assets and Technology  . . . . . . . . . . . . .      12
Operating Performance ....  .  .   ..... .  .  .    .   .  12
Track Maintenance ... .                                    13
Motive Power and Rolling Stock  .         .13
Information Technology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      14
Telecommunications  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      14
Computer Technology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      14
Container Transport ....  .  .  .     .....  .  .  .  .    .  15
Environmental Protection  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      15
F. Future Reform Directions    ..16
This report is based on the findings of a March 1992 preappraisal mission and
a June/July 1992 appraisal mission. The mission members were: Mrs. Hennie
Deboeck and Messrs. Victor Alalouf, David Butcher, Peter Cook, William Harris,
Nikola Holcer, Omar Jung, Udo Marggraf, Robert McAfee, Jonathan Stevens, Louis
Thompson, W.H. Thompson, Lee Travers, Shunso Tsukada, Thawat Watanatada (Task
Manager), and Huikang Xu (see Contributions). The Division Chief is Mr. Daud
Ahmad and the Department Director is Mr. Shahid Javed Burki.



- vi -
Page No.
III. THE PROJECT .18
A.  Project Objectives .  .    .  .  .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
B.  Policy Initiatives  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  18
Investment Planning .18
Tariff Rationalization .19
Accounting Standards .20
Management and Economic Contract  .21
C.  Investment for Expansion and Modernization .21
Capacity Expansion .22
Track Maintenance Mechanization .24
Locomotove and Rolling Stock Parts Manufacture  . .           24
Telecommunications and Transport Management
Information System (TMIS) .24
Pilot Container Transport Modernization .26
D. Technical Assistance for Systemwide Technological
Modernization ..... .26
Rail-Based Container Transport Study .27
Cost-Effective Technology Evaluation (CETE) Study .           27
Environmental Protection Study  . . . . .28
Other Technical Assistance and Training .28
E.  Cost Estimates and Financing  . . . . .28
Project Costs and Financing Plan .29
Onlending Terms  .                .30
F. Project Implementation .30
G. Procurement.. . . . . . . .31
H. Disbursement .31
I. Project Monitoring and Supervision .33
J.  Environmental Impacts and Resettlement .34
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF PROJECT-FINANCED INVESTMENTS .....               36
A.  Introduction  ....  .    .     . . ...  .    .  .  .    ..... .    36
B. Main Benefits . . . . . . . * . ..    * .       .  .  ......   .    36
C.  Capacity Expansion  . . . . . . . . . . .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  37
D.  Track Maintenance Mechanization   .                         .  .   39
E.  Locomotive and Rolling Stock Parts Manufacture  . . . . .          39
F.  Telecommunications and TMIS.          ... .   .     ...... .       40
C.  Pilot Container Transport ... .       .  .  .  .  .    ...... .    40
H.  Overall Evaluation and Risk.. ..                   .     . .       41
V.  ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL SELF-SUFFICIENCY    ..42
A.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . .42
B.  Past Financial Performance of MOR's Railway Transport
Operation ..42
C.  Financial Projections for Base Case .42
D.  Financial Projections for Alternative Scenarios .44
E. Conclusions             . . . . . . . . . . . . .47
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .48
CONTRIBUTIONS ........................ .. .    50



- vii -
P&Rt No
SUPPORTING TABLES
General:
1.1 -  Freight Traffic Intensities and Railway and Road Network
Densities in Selected Countries..  .  . .                        51
1.2  -  Freight Traffic by Mode..                              . .       52
1.3  -  Passenger Traffic by Mode ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .    ... . .   .  53
1.4  -  Transport Investment vs. Economic Output in China .  . .         54
1.5  -  Investment in the Transport Sector       . .       . .           55
1.6  -  Summary Statistics of World Bank-financed Transport Projects   56
2.1  -  Freight Traffic Carried by MOR.                         . .      57
2.2  - MOR's Freight Tonnage Originated.                       . .       58
2.3  - Average Distance of Freight Carried by MOR  . .  .  . .           59
2.4  - MOR's Passenger Traffic and Average Passenger Travel
Distance ... .  60
2.5  -  Selected Operational Statistics of MOR, 1975-1991 .  . .         61
2.6  - Railway Asset Utilization in Selected Countries    .  . .         64
Investment Costs. Implementation Schedule, and Disbursements:
3.1  -  Investment Costs and Loan Summary . . . . . . . .  .  .          65
3.2  -  Investment Costs of Capacity Expansion Subcomponent .  .         67
3.3  -  Investment Costs of Track Maintenance Subcomponent  .  .         69
3.4  -  Investment Costs of Locomotive and Rolling Stock
Subcomponent  ....  .      .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  70
3.5  -  Investment Costs of Telecommunications and TMIS
Subcomponent  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... .  71
3.6  -  Investment Costs of Pilot Container Transport
Subcomponent  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . ... . ..   .  72
3.7  -  Investment Costs of Policy and Technical Assistance
Components  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. ...   .  73
3.8  -  Implementation Schedule ... .      .  .  .  .  .    . ... . ..   .  74
3.9  -  Cumulative Disbursement Schedule..  .  .                          75
List of Goods to be Financed by the Proposed Loan:
3.10 - Total Project....                                        .         76
3.11 - Capacity Expansion Subcomponent.                    .  .  .        77
3.12 -  Track Maintenance Subcomponent       . . . . .  .  .  .   .      81
3.13 - Locomotive and Rolling Stock Subcomponent         .  .  .  .      82
3.14 -  Telecommunications and TMIS Subcomponent        .  .  .  .       83
3.15 -  Pilot Container Transport Subcomponent .....                      84
3.16 -  Policy and Technical Assistance Components        .  .  .  .     85



- viii -
Economic Evaluation:
4.1  - ERR and NPV:  Capacity Expansion Subcomponent . . . . . .       86
4.2  - ERR and NPV:  Track Maintenance Subcomponent  . . . . . .       88
4.3  - ERR and NPV:  Locomotive and Rolling Stock Subcomponent .       90
4.4  - ERR and NPV:  Telecommunications and TMIS Subcomponent  .       93
4.5  - ERR and NPV:  Pilot Container Transport Subcomponent  . .       94
4.6  - Summary of Economic Evaluation Results:  Base Case and
Sensitivity Analysis  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .......   .     95
Financial Analysis:
5.1  - Actual and Forecast Consolidated Income Statements  . . .       96
5.2  - Actual and Forecast Consolidated Balance Sheets . . . . .       97
5.3  - Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds
Statements  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  98
5.4  - Key Financial Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       99
5.5  - MOR's Capital Investments and Sources of Funding for
1991-97 Under the Base Case . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    100
ANNEXES
1. -  Bank Group Participation in the Transport Sector  . . . .    101
2.  -  Summary of Previous Railway Projects in China . . . . . .    103
3.  -  Summary of Ongoing and Proposed Programs of Technical
Cooperation between MOR and the World Bank  . . . . . . .    106
4.  -  Reforming China's Railway System:  Progress to Date and
Next Steps  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  110
5.  -  SPC's Guarantee of Power Supply for the Beijing-Zhengzhou
Electrification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    118
6.  -  Schedule of Key Implementation Dates  . . . . . . . . . .    119
7.  -  Indicators for.Monitoring the Progress and Effectiveness
of Railways VI Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    122
8.  -  Resettlement Plan for Railway Electrification . . . . . .    129
9.  -  Supervision Plan  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  135
10.  -  Documents Available in the Project File . . . . . . . . .    136
CHARTS
C.1   General Organization Chart of the Ministry of Railways  . . .    139
C.2  General Organization Chart of the Government of China . . . .    140
C.3   Schematic Diagram of the Automatic Long-Distance Telephone
Network   . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .         .  .141
C.4  Data Communications Packet Switching Network    . . .142
C.5  Route Structure of the Pilot Container Transport Service           143



-ix -
TABLES IN TEXT
T3.1  - Project Cost Estimates and Bank Participation . . . . . .       29
T3.2  - Project Financing Plan  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  30
T3.3  - Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . .       32
T4.1  - Net Present Value by Subcomponent . . . . . . . . . . . .       38
T5.1  - Actual Revenues and Expenses, 1986-91 . . . . . . . . . .       43
T5.2  - Base Case Forecast of Revenues and Expenses, 1992-97  . .       45
T5.3  - Key Assumptions and Results Under Different Scenarios
(1993-97) ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  46
FIGURES IN TEXT
T1.1  - International Comparison of Railway and Road Networks   .        2
MAPS
M.1  IBRD 24578:  China Railway System
M.2  IBRD 23817R:  Chinese Railway Bottlenecks in 1989



SUPPLEMENTARY VOLUME FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION 1/
Working
Paper
Number    Title of Working Paper
1      Railway Accounting
2      Railway Tariffs
3      Track Maintenance
4      Locomotives and Rolling Stock
5      Railway Telecommunications
6      The Transport Management Information System (TMIS)
7      Container Transport Operations in China
8      Trade Logistics in China
9      Railway Environmental Protection
10      Description of the Railway Tariff Study
11      Description of the Railway Accounting Study
12      Description of the Management and Economic Contract Study
13      Ranking of Railway Investment Projects in the Eighth Five-Year Plan
using the RIS Analysis System
14      Description of the Track Maintenance Subcomponent
15      Description of the Transfers of Technology
16      Description of the Railway Telecommunications and TMIS Subcomponent
17      Indicative Policy Contents of TMIS
18      Description of the Pilot Container Transport Subcomponent
19      Description of the Container Transport Study
20      Description of the Cost-Effective Technology Evaluation (CETE) Study
for Increasing Line Capacity
21      Adaptation of Cast-Steel Wheel Technology
22      General Methodology for Economic Evaluation
23      Economic Evaluation of the Capacity Expansion Subcomponent
24      Economic Evaluation of the Track Maintenance Subcomponent
25      Economic Evaluation of the Locomotive and Rolling Stock Subcomponent
26      Economic Evaluation of the Telecommunications and TMIS Subcomponent
27      Economic Evaluation of the Pilot Container Transport Subcomponent
28      Notes and Major Assumptions Underlying MOR's Financial Forecasts
29      Analysis of Financial Self-Sufficiency
30      Resettlement Plan for Electrification of the Beijing-Zhengzhou and
Chengdu-Kunming Lines
I/ Available in the Project File.



C-H
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
I   TRANSPORT BOTTLENECKS AND REFORMS
A. Backaround
1.1       The transport system in China has grown considerably over the last
four decades. From 1952 to 1992, the length of the highway system has
increased by a factor of nine and the length of the railway network has more
than doubled. Daspite this development, the transport network is one of the
sparest in the world compared with the area and population it serves (Figure
T1.1 and Table 1.1). The main reason for this is China's low level of trans-
port investment, which averaged only 1.3 percent of GNP during 1981-90 (Tables
1.4 and 1.5), compared to 2-3 percent for other countries such as India, South
Korea and Brazil.
1.2       The transport system is also characterized by high intensity of
freight traffic. To produce one dollar of economic output, China handles
50 percent more ton-km of traffic than India and Brazil (Table 1.1). The
major reasons behind China's high freight traffic intensity are a relatively
large heavy industry sector, reliance on coal as the major source of energy
and a large volume of other bulk products. These factors have resulted in a
gap between transport supply and demand which is manifested by the existence
of transport bottlenecks,j/ the administrative rationing of limited trans-
port capacity, the poor quality of services and losses to the economy.
1.3       The economic system in China is undergoing a major transition toward
a market orientation and this transition will involve many reforms in the
transport sector designed to increase efficiency and improve its response to
market forces. These reforms, which started in 1979, are now accelerating due
to new government policies announced in 1992.
B. TrIffic
1.4       Since the adoption of an open door policy in 1979, China has experi-
enced rapid growth of traffic, consistent with fast expansion of the economy,
which averaged about 9.5 percent per year during 1980-90. This growth trend
tapered off in recent years as the supply constraints became more conspicuous
and the growth of the economy slowed down in 1989/90. However, resumption of
high economic growth since 1991 has brought about a corresponding surge in
transport demand which has strained the capacity of the transport system.
1.5       Traffic Growth.  Despite the capacity constraints and related bot-
tlenecka, during 1981-90 total freight traffic grow at 8.0 percent per annum
and total intercity passenger traffic at 9.5 percent per annum. Highway
1/ A transport bottleneck is defined as a transport facility (e.g., a rail-
way line) whose traffic flow exceeds 95 percent of its design capacity.



Fi2ure Ti.1: INTERNATIONAL COMPARISON OF RAILWAY AND ROAD NETWORKS
Railway Networks                   Thousands
1,200/
1-   tack Length (km)        Road Networks
per million         40
1,000                Population                            Road length (km)
800                                     30                P P nopult ion
T ack Length h                            d Length
600                  (km) per 10 sq     20                   (km) per 10 sq
400J
200                 10
0>                                                      (  r
freight traffic grew at the highest annual rate of 16 percent, compared with
6.4 percent for railway traffic and 8.6 percent for coastal and inland water-
way traffic (Table 1.2). Despite its rapid growth, intercity passenger travel
per capita in China remains very low, about two thirds of the level for India.
This is due primarily to the severe capacity constraints. Civil aviation
traffic, which grew at 20 percent per annum during 1982-91, is still very
limited, and most long-distance journeys are made by rail.
1.6      Trananort Demand and Modal Split Trends.  Although the railway's
share of traffic has declined over the last decades as the share of road traf-
fic has grown, rail transport still dominates freight and passenger traffic in
China. In 1990, 58.8 percent of freight (Table 1.3) and 46.4 percent of pas-
senger traffic (Table 1.4) were moved by rail, and the rest was moved by road,
inland waterway, coastal shipping, pipeline, and civil aviation. This preemi-
nence of the railway is due in part to the past dependence of the Chinese
economy on heavy industry and in part to the relatively long transport dis-
tances. In the case of passenger transport, the dominance of railway is
partly due to inadequate provision of intercity bus services, the virtual
absence of private automobiles, and the limited use of civil aviation. The
movement toward a market economy will increase demand for market-responsive
transport services, favoring a shift to road transport, but still leaving a
growing market for the relatively low cost rail transport system.
C. Transport Reforms
1.7      In the past decade, China's economic reforms have aimed to increase
economic efficiency through measures designed to: reduce national government
intervention in the production and distribution process; reduce the Govern-
ment's deficits and subsidies to state-owned enterprises; and open the economy
by expanding trade and allowing further participation of private and collec-
tive enterprises. In the transport sector, several reforms have been under-
taken in line with these objectives. Notably, the Government has:



-3-
(a) reduced the extent of commodity price distortions by (i) decreasing
the volumes of commodities produced in the State Plan; and (ii)
raising the in-plan prices of commodities closer to market levlel;
(b) increased the tariffs charged by state transport enterprises,
including railway, highway and waterway, to levels approaching their
long-run marginal costs;
(c)  encouraged provincial governments to develop many local railways,
which now total some 4,400 route-km and interconnect with the
national standard-gauge network (para. 2.1);
(d) allowed private individuals and collective and township enterprises
to provide passenger and freight transport services on roads and
inland waterways, and has encouraged provincial and national author-
ities to develop transport systems with private sector financing;
(e) carried out major structural reforms in the organization and manage-
ment of civil aviation and in the ports, leading to increased finan-
cial autonomy and accountability, and to less central government
controls, and paving the way for introduction of competitive ser-
vices;
(f) reduced operating and capital subsidies for major infrastructure
services, through higher cost-recovery and creation of user-funded
capital construction funds; and
(g) encouraged the introduction of more modern technology in the trans-
port system primarily by improving rolling stock technology in the
railway subsector; enhancing container and bulk handling capacity in
the port subsector; improving road pavement design and geometric
standards for the expansion of motorization in the highway subsec-
tor; and increasing the use of computerized data processing and
planning techniques in operations in all modes.
In undertaking many of these transport reforms, the Government has relied on
the Bank as a key source of advice, through a number of cooperative studies
and programs (paras. 1.9-1.12 and 1.14).
D. Bank Group Participation
1.8       The Bank Group has supported initiatives by tho Government in the
transport sector through loans and credits totaling $3.3 billion for 23 proj-
ects and is now preparing additional projects in the sector (see Table 1.6 and
Annex 1). These projects have included:
(a) expansion of rail capacity, modernization of locomotives and rolling
stock, manufacturing facilities, modernization of track maintenance,
modernization of telecommunications and information systems, plus
many technical assistance and training programs, as summarized in
Annexes 2 and 3 ($1,365 million in six projects);
(b) construction of 1,760 km of high-quality national and provincial
roads, upgrading of 6,430 km of rural roads, improvement of the



- 4 -
supervision and quality control of road construction, and studies of
key issues in road safety, pavement management, user chargea and
methods of financing for road maintenance and construction ($1,149
for nine project.);
(c)  construction of terminals, jetties and berths in six ports, dradging
of navigation channels, and technical assistance and training for
port planning, operations management and containerization ($550 mil-
lion in six projects);
(d)  improvement of urban transport in Shanghai, including upgrading of
infrastructure, and improvement of planning, programming finance and
management of the urban transport system ($60 million); and
(e)  a multimodal project for roads and inland waterways in Jiangsu Prov-
ince ($54 million).
1.9       The dialogue between the Government and the Bank Group on transport
sector operations and strategy has beon strengthened both through the project
preparation activities and project-financed studies and through sector studies
carried out in collaboration with Chinese authorities, especially in the areas
of multimodal transport investment end the setting of sectoral priorities
based on modern systemuide economic evaluation techniques. Six of the studies
have explored multimodal pricing and investment issues in a more comprehensive
and more economically-oriented analytical framework than was formerly avail-
able to China's decision-makeras the Guangdong Comprehensive Transport Plan-
ning Study (GCTPS); the Yangtze Economic Zone Transport Study (YEZTS); the
Coal Transport Study (CTS); the Railway Investment Study (RIS); the Strategic
Issues in Ports and Shipping (SIPS) Study; and the Price Reform Study. The
Bank Group also conducted a survey of the national water transport system,
which has reaffirmed the need to further exploit the large potential of the
Chinese waterways.
1.10      The recommendations of the above-mentioned studies have boen used as
inputs to transport planning and pricing decisions. The CTS analysis systm
has recently been employed by the State Planning Commission (SPC) to assess
the implications of using higher planned economic growth rates (8-9 percent
instead of 6 percent used previously) on investment requirements through the
year 2000 in transport and energy infrastructure. Recent results of RIS anal-
ysis have provided a basis for discussions between the Ministry of Railways
(MOR) and SPC concerning railway investment decisions in the current revisions
to the Eighth Five-Year Plan (SFYP) (par&. 3.6). The ongoing SIPS will pro-
vide important information on container transport investment decisions. The
Price Reform Study Report has been the basis for a major dialogue between the
Bank and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the State Price Bureau (SPB) with
railway tariffs used as a key example of the neod for price reform
(pare. 3.8).
1.11      Five additional studies funded under Railways IV and V have focused
on specific technical areas with systemwide implications for the railway
(telecommunications and computerizod management information system, factory
modernization and strategic plan, track maintenance and rehabilitation, loco-
motive and rolling stock maintenance and rehabilitation, and system electrifi-
cation). The results of these studies are still being analyzed, but they have



-5-
alroady led to several major decisions by MOR supporting modernization of the
railway (paras. 3.19, 3.22-3.30).
1.12      Finally, throe additional studies specific to the setting of railway
tariffs and related costing and accounting issues, as vell as railway regula-
tion and management issues, have been started and would be supported by the
proposed project (railway tariff study, railway accounting study, and railway
management and economic contract study). These studies will provide a basis
for: (a) future rationalization of tariff decisions in a market framework;
(b) determining the separate roles of government and railway managment;
(c) developing a management-oriented accounting and cost accounting system;
and (d) working with MOF to bring the railway accounting system more in line
with international standards. These studies and accompanying dialogue have
increased the ability of the Government to deal with the increased complexity
of transport planning in China's transition toward a market-oriented economy.
1.13      These projects and studies are helping to spur the growth and mod-
ernization of the transport system. However, much more needs to be done to
bring about the changes required to deal effectively with the emerging issues.
To alleviate the transport bottlenecks and rationalize the transport system,
the Government will need to take the following measures by the year 2000:
(a) increase the total level of transport investment in relation to GNP,
to expand capacity to moet the new traffic demands and to clear up
the backlogs caused by past underinvestment;
(b) realizo the most economic balance of investments among the major
freight transport modes of railway, highway, and water;
(c) realign further the prices of freight transport services and those
of the major comodities, especially coal, to bring them closer to
their true costs;
(d) increase further the productivity of existing transport assets
through technological modernization and management reforms; and
(a) improve and expand the multimodal transport system, both across and
within modes, with particular emphasis on more extensive use of
containers.
1.14      The Bank will broaden its involvement and will assist the Government
in the design and implementation of institutional and sectoral reforms in
other areas, including nmangement strategy formulation, investment planning,
pricing and financing, services' deregulation, operational management, and
transfer of advanced transport related technology through training and provi-
sion of up-to-date equipment. Chinese authorities and the Bank Group are
currently preparing or undertaking new transport studies which will focus on
long-term strategies for the country's transport system. These studies
include a study of the trucking industry, and studies to prepare a highway
strategy paper and a railway strategy paper. Finally, the Ministry of Commu-
nications (HOC) and the Bank have launched an institutional-strengthening com-
ponent for HOC in the China Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment
Project (CRISPP).



II. THE RAILWAY SYSTEM
A. Backaround and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.1       Because of its critical importance to the economy, the railway sys-
tem is often regarded by the Chine.. as the "backbone of China." The dominant
mods of transport in China, the railway system carries more froight and pas-
senger traffic than all other modes combined. Although its share of traffic
has eroded in the past decade, the railways are still likely to retain their
dominance over the next 10-20 years. The standard-gauge railway network com-
prises about 57,400 km of main routes, of which 4,400 route-km belong to local
railways, administered by local governments, and the remaining 53,000 route-km
belong to the national railway system, administered by MOR (Map M.1).
2.2       The Ministry of Railways is an efficient operation and, despite its
use of mostly outdated technology, the utilization of its track and locomo-
tives and rolling stock is among the world's highest. Because the demand for
railway transport far exceeds its supply, MOR's traffic capacity is stretched
to its limits.  The Ministry is comitted to modernizing the technology of its
plant and equipment over the next 5-10 years, to improve the efficiency of its
operations and to expand its traffic capacity at a lower unit cost. A profit-
able operation, MOR is responsible for financing all of its operating and
capital expenditures, through both self-generated funds and borrowings on
market terms; it receives no direct cash subsidies from the Government (para.
2.12). MOR is now in the midst of a process, which began nearly a decade ago,
to transform itself from a government organization into a market-oriented,
commercially operated entity. In this process, MOR has undergone several
major changes, to improve railway regulation and internal management; boost
its invostment and financial planning capability; and modernize its technology
(Annex 4).
2.3       MOR needs both technical and financial assistance from abroad in
order to complete this important transition. The Bank has since 1983 provided
such assistance through fivo national railway operations and one local railway
operation. The main objectives of the first four national operations were to
finance construction to expand traffic capacity in high-priority corridors,
and to introduce new plant technology to MOR's facilities. The fifth national
operation introduced railway policy initiatives and technological moderniza-
tion on a systemwide basis (Annexes 2 and 3). This new approach would be
implemented more extensively under the proposed project. Also, to address
railway issues more broadly, the Bank has prepared, in close cooperation with
MOR, a paper entitled "China's Railway Strategy," which is being distributed
to the Bank's Executive Directors. This paper identifies major challenges
facing MOR in the 1990s and sets out a medium-term strategy for the Bank to
assist MOR in moeting these challenges. The design of the proposed project
reflects this strategy. In particular, the proposed project would help MOR
attain financial self-sufficiency and strengthen its financial management.
The project would also help MOR develop a stronger capability for marketing
and pricing railway services and focus more on service quality. Annex 4
outlines future reform agenda for the Chinese railway system.



-7-
B. Traffic and Bottlenecks
2.4       The route density of rail freight and passenger traffic in China, at
about 26 million converted ton-km (ton-km plus passenger-km) per route-km in
1991, is one of the highest in the world. Major commodities which make up the
bulk and semibulk traffic (coal, grain, construction materials, etc.) account
for about three quarters of total freight traffic. The remaining quarter
includes general merchandise and the types of traffic that can be moved in
containers. This latter type of traffic is gaining increasing importance each
year. It is the kind of traffic for which the railway is facing increasing
competition from trucks. About 20 percent of the railway network capacity is
devoted to passenger traffic.
2.5       The total amount of traffic is constrained by the limited capacities
of both railway lines and wagons and coaches. On crowded routes, passenger
trains compete for space with freight trains. The railway has increased oper-
ating efficiency at the expense of service to its customers by rationing its
capacity through close control of wagon allocations to shippers and limits on
passenger service availability. In 1989, the traffic on some 37 percent of
the railway links reached bottleneck levels (Map M.2). In 1990, more than
40 percent of monthly wagon requests were denied on average.
2.6       Railway freight and passenger traffic grew rapidly during 1979-88,
averaging annual rates of 6.3 percent for freight and 11.6 percent for passen-
gers, but experienced setbacks during the stabilization period of 1989-91 that
temporarily prevented the bottlenecks from worsening (Tables 2.1-2.4). How-
ever, the growth of railway transport demand is expected to increase again in
the future. Railway passenger traffic dropped by 7.3 percent in 1989 and a
further 16.2 percent in 1990, following the introduction of administrative
controls on personal travel in mid-1989, as well as sharp fare hikes in Sep-
tember 1989 that averaged 112 percent. Intercity passenger travel by railway
is expected to regain its higher growth in the future as suppressed demand is
released from administrative controls and per capita income increases (the
elasticity of demand for passenger travel is estimated at 1.5). In 1992,
railway passenger traffic rose an estimated 10.7 percent. The growth of rail-
way freight traffic dropped to 3.6 percent per year during 1989-91, as a
result of two factors: first, a series of rate increases during 1990-91
totaling about 40 percent; and, second, bottlenecks on key railway lines
blocking additional traffic flows between many distant pairs of origins and
destinations that did not have alternative routes with available capacity.
Railway freight traffic is expected to grow faster as railway tariffs stabi-
lize and the key bottlenecks are removed. In 1992, despite a 35 percent hike
in freight tariffs in July, railway freight traffic grew an estimated 5.5 per-
cent.
2.7       MOR has given top priority to the task of alleviating railway
bottlenecks, primarily through capacity expansion. However, because of the
chronic underinvestment in the past, it will take several more years, likely
beyond the year 2000, before all railway bottlenecks disappear. The Bank has
assisted MOR in carrying out this task since the First Railway Project, in
which the Bank financed the construction of a new railway line and the expan-
sion of an existing line. The proposed Sixth Project not only would directly



-8-
finance railway capacity expansion projects, but would help MOR in two other
important aspects by:
(a) improving the efficiency of railway investment through (i) optimiza-
tion of the scale, timing, and location of railway investment as
well as improvement in the freight routing procedure, employing an
analysis system developed within MOR in the Railway Investment Study
(RIS) launched under Railways V (paras. 3.3-3.7); and (ii) adoption
of more cost-effective railway technology, which would decreaso the
unit cost of capacity expansion (paras. 3.37-3.38); and
(b) ensuring that (i) future railway investment programs will be large
enough to accommodate future traffic growth, employing the RIS anal-
ysis system (para. 3.6); and (ii) MOR's tariff system will serve to
control transport demand, rationalize transport operations, and
provide the needed funding for the investment programs (paras. 3.8-
3.10).
C. Management and Regulation
2.8       MOR is headed by a minister, who is assisted by four vice-ministers,
a chief engineer and a chief economist. It employs about 3.4 million individ-
uals, of whom 51 percent work on rail transport. The remaining 49 percent
work on nonrail transport activities: 17 percent on construction of railway
infrastructure and facilities; 13 percent on manufacturing of locomotives,
rolling stock, signaling, and communications equipment and other various rail-
way parts and components; 8 percent in a variety of business ventures; and the
remaining 11 percent on other activities. Through control measures exercised
by NOR, this 3.4 million work force is expected to maintain its present size
through 1995. The rail transport part of MOR is organized into 12 regional
administrations, and the nonrail transport part into factory and construction
companies, plus other smaller units, including design institutes, schools, and
hospitals (Chart C.1). The regional administrations and the factory and con-
struction companies are separate profit centers and are entrusted with a con-
siderable degree of autonomy: they have the authority to manage small-scale
investment projects; retain profits on the basis of their performance; and
make staffing decisions such as the internal organizational structure, the
staff size and composition, and pay incentives. The nonrail transport part of
MOR contains a group of more than 300,000 staff who are engaged in a wide
variety of business activities, including trucking ventures that transfer
shipments between railway stations and customers' warehouses. This so-called
diversified economy group is gaining increasing importance as a means to
absorb railway transport workers who are no longer needed as MOR modernizes
its technology.
2.9       The framework for regulation of the Chinese railway system is pro-
vided for by a Railway Law, enacted in 1991. The Law covers areas of railway
construction, ownership, management, tariff-setting, and operations (including
service quality, passenger safety, and environmental protection). With
respect to those areas, the law lays down the powers and obligations of the
national and local governments, the Ministry of Railways, the railway custom-
ers (shippers and passengers), and the public at large. The Railway Law is
summarized in the railway strategy paper (para. 2.3).



2.10      As specified in the Railway Law, regulation of the national railway
system is the overall responsibility of the State Council (China's Cabinet).
Through its coordinating agencies and special-function agencies (Chart C.2),
the State Council exercises its authority to (a) direct MOR's development
plans, based on the long- and medium-term development plans at the national
level and (b) approve MOR's decisions on annual traffic targets, major
investment projects, railway tariffs, and wage levels.
2.11      Under an "economic contract" with the Government, which began in
1986, MOR must finance all of its operating and capital expenditures (includ-
ing through market borrowings). In addition, MOR is required to pay tho Gov-
errment a business tax of 5.3 percent on gross revenues, plus a lump-sum tax
of Y 2 billion each year (4.3 percent of 1991 gross revenues). In return, MOR
is allowed to keep its net income to finance railway capital construction.
Also under the economic contract, MOR staff are given an incentive system
which ties their salaries to labor productivity.
2.12      MOR's financial responsibility mentioned above should be viewed in
the context of the current price system in China, in which both its input and
output prices are distorted downwards. On the input side, MOR purchases por-
tions of materials, fuel, and electricity at subsidized in-plan prices, and
pays interest at subsidized rates on its borrowings. On the output side, the
prices MOR charges for its rail transport services (base tariffs plus sur-
charges) were until 1992 kept below their economic costs (i.e., costs calcu-
lated with the effects of the subsidies removed). However, this situation has
improved recently. Between 1990 and 1992, tho level of price and credit sub-
sidies were reduced from 20 to 25 percent to 13 to 18 percent of railway oper-
ating costs. In July 1992, a surcharge for an earmarked Railway Construction
Fund was raised, thereby bringing railway prices in the aggregate close to
their long-run marginal costs (paras. 2.23 and 3.9). Further phasing out of
subsidies is expected, which can be compensated for by a relatively small
increase in base tariffs (para. 5.16).
2.13      In the current wave of economic liberalization, railway management
and regulation in China are in a state of flux. Recently, MOR has announced
new policy changes to give more managerial freedom to the regional administra-
tions and the manufacturing and construction companies.  MOR staff have bec
increasingly interested in examining moro carefully railway organizations and
policies adopted in other countries, with a view to improving MOR's own inter-
nal management and its regulatory and contractual relationships with the Gov-
ernment. A policy subcomponent under the proposed project is intended to
assist MOR in this effort (para. 3.13).
D. Investment and Finance
Investment
2.14      Levels of Investment.  Investment in railways is planned to increase
sharply from Y 48 billion in the Seventh Five-Year Plan (7FYP) to Y 116 bil-
lion under 8FYP in current prices. Although the Y 116 billion investment plan
represents an increase of about 70 percent in real terms from the 7FYP level,
it is still based on a relatively low economic growth rate of about 6 perc-nt
per year. The current push for more domestic economic reform vhich began in



- 10 -
early 1992 ha. caused Chinese planners to revise their future growth expecta-
tions sharply upward., to a rate of 8 to 9 percent per year through the year
2000. This has tremendous implications on future railway investment needs,
which are being reexamined accordingly (para. 3.6).
2.15      Investment Plannina.  The Ministry carries out three types of plans:
(a) the long-term strategic plan, which focuses on strategic issues over a
horizon of more than five years, such as what kinds of passenger services are
to be provided; (b) the five-year plan, which identifies specific railway
investment projects proposed for implementation during the plan period (as
part of the central government's five-year planning process); and (c) the
annual plan, which specifies a yearly program for construction of the projects
approved for implementation under the five-year plan, as well as a yearly pro-
gram of rehabilitation of track and equipment. Under the five-year plan,
capital construction and upgrading projects costing Y 50 million or more must
be approved by the State Planning Commission (SPC) and those costing Y 200
million or more must be approved by both SPC and the State Council. In addi-
tion, the total amount of MOR's capital expenditure each year must not exceed
a ceiling specified by the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
2.16      High efficiency in the use of resources is a key requirement for
China to sustain its high economic growth rate over the long term. The rail-
way, which requires large investments to reduce transport bottlenecks, needs
to ensure that such investments are allocated to the projects with the highest
returns. However, until recently, the railway investment planning process had
two deficiencies, as recognized by MOR staff: (a) it underestimated traffic
and investment needs; and (b) it lacked analytical tools. The first defi-
ciency was due to the Government's past tendency to adopt relatively low traf-
fic forecasts as a basis for determining the size of its future railways
investment programs. This tendency has been a major reason for the chronic
underinvestment in transport infrastructure in China. This deficiency is
being remedied as discussed in para. 3.6.
2.17      The second deficiency, the lack of analytical tools for network
analysis, has led MOR to select the location and timing of network capacity
expansion projects in a suboptimal manner. This has placed unnecessarily low
limits on the annual throughput of the railway system as a whole. Recognizing
this shortcoming, MOR decided in 1989 to develop a computer-based decision-
support system under the Railway Investment Study (RIS) in cooperation with
the Bank. One of the main objectives of RIS has been to help MOR optimize the
scale, timing and location of capacity expansion investments over MOR's net-
work. The second, application phase of RIS was initiated during the prepara-
tion of this project (paras. 3.3-3.7).
Accountina and Auditing
2.18      Accounting.  MOR allocates the total rail transport revenue to each
of the 12 regional administrations based on their volumes of traffic and oper-
ating costs. The administrations are self-accounting units. The consolida-
tion of the individual administrations' accounts is done at MOR's headquar-
ters. There are two major shortcomings in MOR's accounting system. First,
the consolidated financial statements are prepared according to Chineas
accounting practices which, in some instances, are substantially different



- 11 -
from international practices. As an example, China's accounting lw does not
allow recording of accrued interest receivable or payable. As another exam-
ple, losses on fluctuations of foreign exchange rates are accounted for only
when they are realized, e.g., when loans denominated in foreign currencies are
repaid. These differences make it difficult to compare MOR's financial posi-
tion and performance as reported through its financial statements with those
of railways in other countries. Second, the accounting system is not uniform:
the regional administrations follow NOR's own accounting guidelines, whereas
its factory and construction companies adopt MOF's accounting system, and its
hospital and universities use the national unified accounting system (see
Working Paper No. 1).
2.19      To improve its accounting system, MOR has decided to undertake a
study under the proposed project to revise its accounting standards to conform
with international practices. The study is being conducted in close collabo-
ration with MO0, which is developing new national accounting standards under
the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit No. 2423-CHA, paras.
3.11-3.12).
2.20      Auditing.  Comprehensive auditing of financial statements of public
enterprises was required for the first time in 1983 when the State Audit
Administration (SAA) was established. Functioning under the State Council,
SAA has a separate section called the Foreign Investment Audit Bureau, which
audits public enterprises receiving loans from abroad. This bureau audits all
Bank-financed projects, including railway projects. In 1988, the State Coun-
cil promulgated audit regulations and standards prepared by MOP based on
international practices. SAM has indicated its willingness to work closely
with the Bank to ensure that audit reports meet Bank guidelines.
2.21      Because the proposed project deals with policy initiatives and tech-
nological modernization on a systemwide basis, the Bank has requested MOR's
consolidated financial statements, appropriately audited. Therefore. axree-
ment was reached with the Borrower during netotiations that. in addition to
the usual Proiect Accounts, Special Account, and Statement of Expenditure. the
Consolidated Financial Statements of MOR will be provided to the Bank after
havina been audited by independent auditors acceDtable to the Bank
Pricing
2.22      MOR's tariff system is similar to the so-called "class tariff sys-
tems" practiced by North American railways in the past while they were under
heavy government regulation. The tariffs are basically set by distance range
and by co-modity type (for freight) or by service type (for passengers). The
present level of tariffs/surcharges is high enough to cover operating costs.
The railway tariff system, however, has three major weaknes-se (see Working
Paper No. 2). First, until July 1992, the average level of tariffa/surcharges
fell far short of the level needed to allow MOR to self-finance its large
investment plans in the 1990a (in addition to borrowings). Second, the struc-
ture of tariffs/surcharges does not sufficiently take into consideration:
(a) the sensitivity of transport demand to price; (b) the costs of providing
the services; and (c) competition from other modes. And third, changes in the
tariffs/surcharges must be approved by the State Price Bureau (SPB) of the
State Council--which is a cumbersome and time-consuming process.



- 12 -
2.23      Until MOR became responsible for financing all of its expenditures
in 1986, its tariffs had changed little since the mid-1960s. Since 1986, MOR
has come under tremendous pressure to increase its freight and passenger reve-
nues so as to cover ita operating costs and to finance large investment pro-
grams for expanding railway capacity. To this end, significant progress has
been made. Notably, a Railway Construction Fund has been set up to permit MOR
to levy surcharges against freight traffic to raise traffic revenues earmarked
for railway capital investment. Since 1990, the Government has granted MOR a
series of increases in freight tariffs/surcharges, including a major increase
in July 1992, amounting to a cumulative increase of about 90 percent. In
1989, the Government granted MOR a one-time increase in passenger tariffs
averaging 112 percent. This will allow MOR to defray all of its operating
costs and fund 80 to 85 percent of its capital investment plan of Y 116 bil-
lion (excluding major equipment replacements of about Y 28 billion) under
8FYP. MOR expects to obtain further increases in tariffs/surcharges in the
next few years to close the existing financial gap and to finance expected
increases in railway investment. MOR is also likely to rely more on both
domestic and international borrowings (para. 5.16).
2.24      With its tariffs becoming increasingly adequate in overall level,
MOR is in a position to turn its attention to other tariff issues, including
the questions of efficient tariff structure and tariff deregulation. The
tariff study, launched in March 1992 and to be supported by the proposed proj-
ect, aims to assist MOR in addressing these issues (paras. 3.8-3.10).
E.  Physical Assets and Technologt
ODeratint Performance
2.25      With few exceptions, MOR's trains run on a predetermined, tight
schedule at short intervals of 7 to 15 minutes. MOR has managed to achieve a
high level of utilization of both infrastructure and equipment (Table 2.5),
despite serious operating, technological, and administrative limitations. For
example, freight wagon utilization ratios exceed those of India and compare
favorably with those of the United States, particularly considering that the
fleet is less modern and less powerful (Table 2.6). China's extraordinary
railway traffic density, at an average of about 26 million converted ton-km
(ton-km plus passenger-km) per route-km, has been achieved despite the use of
relatively inefficient approaches to maintenance of track and other fixed
facilities. The average freight car turnaround time of four days is the
world's shortest. Nevertheless, the railways are unable to provide service to
the potential traffic due to acute capacity constraints.
2.26      The rigidity of the operating system has greatly reduced the quality
of service for customers, and the lack of modern technologies has hindered
further improvements in operating efficiency. Substantial productivity
increases are possible only through more sophisticated changes in the overall
operating system; track maintenance and rehabilitation; and the manufacturing,
maintenance, and management of locomotives and rolling stock. Recognizing the
need for such changes, MOR has initiated a series of studies since 1988 in
cooperation with the Bank to prepare action plans for systemwide modernization
of its plant, equipment, and information systems. The systemwide technologi-
cal modernization subcomponents provided in the respective areas under this



- 13 _
project would implement the initial phases of the action plans. Additionally,
three new systemwide technological modernization studies have been launched
under the proposed project (paras. 3.35-3.39).
Track Maintenance
2.27      The 53,000 route-km of the national railway system contains about
67,000 km of main track. Some 25,000 km of the main track, which carry
30 million tons per year or more of traffic, make up the "core network." Most
of this core network needs renewal and upgrading to handle even present traf-
fic requirements. The standard main line rail for the core network of 60 and
75 kg/m weight is laid on only 8,200 km (one third) of core main lines. The
other core main lines are laid with 50 and 43 kg/m rails, which are too light
for current traffic volumes and axle loads.
2.28      MOR pays close attention to the maintenance and rehabilitation of
its track system. Its approach, however, has become increasingly inadequate.
The main reason is that most of MOR's maintenance and rehabilitation work is
still carried out with manual methods, using small tools during intervals
between train passes, which have become shorter and shorter due to higher
train density. Train intervals on several sections have now fallen to seven
minutes (para. 2.25), reducing the time available for maintenance to uneco-
nomic levels. The future will see a greater need to increase train densities,
speeds, and axle loads, to lengthen the economic life of track components, and
to reduce long-term maintenance costs. Therefore, mechanizing most mainte-
nance functions--including tamping, lining, leveling, ballast regulating, and
ballast cleaning--is becoming more urgent. MOR has begun to use heavy-duty
track maintenance machines for track maintenance, which provide a higher level
of track quality, increase the intervals between maintenance programs, and
reduce long-term maintenance costs. Under Railways V, MOR launched a study to
improve the quality and efficiency of its track maintenance. The proposed
systemwide track maintenance subcomponent (paras. 3.22-3.23) represents an
initial action recommended by the study (see Working Paper No. 3).
Motive Power and Rolling Stock
2.29      The Ministry of Railways has large fleets of locomotives, passenger
coaches, and freight cars of diversified types and technologies. The locomo-
tive fleet of about 13,800 consists of 5,900 steam, 6,100 diesel, and 1,800
electric units. Manufacture of steam locomotives for mainline service was
discontinued in 1988, so the steam fleet will shrink over the next 10 years or
so. There are more than 27,600 passenger coaches and 370,000 freight cars of
different designs and capacities. Although the maintenance of these equipment
fleets is relatively inefficient by modern standards, MOR has been able to
maintain remarkably high availability of its equipment. For example, its DF4
diesel locomotives are available for service about 89 percent of the time,
compared to about 82 and 91 percent on average for diesel locomotives in India
and the United States, respectively.
2.30      MOR's equipment maintenance is complicated by large numbers of
design types, coupled with poor quality of component parts and assembly tech-
niques used in unit manufacture, causing relatively frequent failures and
overhaul cycles. Manufacturing and overhauls are carried out in 34 locomotive



- 14 -
and rolling stock factories. The absence of adequate, specialized facilities
to manufacture critical components results in shortages of high-quality spare
parts (see Working Paper No. 4). MOR recognizes these problems, and is deter-
mined to solve them. Under Railways V, MOR launched a study to find measures
to modernize the design, manufacture and maintenance of its motive power and
rolling stock. The most urgent measures recommended by this study are pro-
posed to be implemented under the proposed systemwide locomotive and rolling
stock subcomponent (paras. 3.24-3.25).
Information TechnoloRv
2.31      In operating the extensive railway system in China, MOR makes sig-
nificant use of telecommunications, and also operates a partially computerized
information system on rail operations. Nevertheless, the amount of informa-
tion exchange between operating units and headquarters or between subadminis-
trations and administrations is still limited compared to the information
available for decision-making in modern railways.
2.32      Telecommunications.  Telecommunications is an essential infrastruc-
ture for railway transportation. MOR's telecom system consists of a general-
purpose telecom network (telephone, telegraph, conference telephone and data
networks) and a dispatching network for handling mainly train and wagon opera-
tions. The existing telecom system is inadequate in capacity and outdated in
technology: overhead lines still account for about 60 percent of the trans-
mission network and the crossbar system still accounts for about 65 percent of
the switching equipment. As a result, quality of telecom service is low. The
data transmission is rudimentary and uses voice channels.  The dispatching
network is a specialized telephone network connecting more than 5,700 stations
for train dispatching and traffic management operations. Only 10 percent of
intermediate stations have automatic telephone service. A large number of
people who work in the yards and along the tracks have no modern equipment for
communicating among themselves and with their main offices.
2.33      Having decided to drastically upgrade its telecom technology, MOR
has launched two studies in cooperation with the Bank: (a) a Telecom Master
Plan Study, under Railways V; and (b) a Railway Data Transmission Network
Study (packet-switching network study), under Railways IV. The Telecom Master
Plan Study has produced a strategic plan for modernizing telecom technology,
and a development plan for the short, medium and long terms. The short-term
plan (1991-95) has provided the basis for the systemwide telecom subcomponent
of the project (see paras. 3.26-3.30 and Working Paper No. 5).
2.34      Computer Technolozy.  MOR has approximately 800 minicomputers and
over 20,000 personal microcomputers, most of which are used in a stand-alone
mode. Most communications between computers is done via diskettes, either by
courier or by mail. MOR's computer network basically consists of a rudimen-
tary DECNET network, with 12 dedicated circuits connecting the main headquar-
ters with each of the administration headquarters. The administration head-
quarters are connected with the subadministrations through dedicated and dial
telephone lines.
2.35      In 1985, MOR launched a study to develop a long-range strategy for
automating its transport operations on a real-time basis with a modern comput-



- 15 -
erized Transport Management Information System (THIS). Because of the then-
existing COCOM restrictions on export of large mainframe computers, M0R's
initial efforts focused on a hierarchical distributed database approach, vhich
would employ smaller computers. This effort was later augmented by another
study under Railways IV for which a foreign consulting firm was retained.
This study led to a decision by MOR to adopt a more flexible and cost-
effective centralized database approach, which has been used by a number of
modern railways. This centralized THIS approach would be implemented under
the proposed project (see paras. 3.26-3.30 and Working Paper No. 6).
Container Transport
2.36      Containerization in China started in the early 1970a, using one-ton
and five-ton domestic containers. Since then, container transport has slowly
but steadily increased. With recent introduction of larger sized containers
(10-ton domestic containers and 20-foot International Standards Organization
(ISO) containers] and MOR's decision to expand container service, its growth
rate has accelerated in the past five years. Still, the total volume of MOR's
containerized traffic is less than 1 percent of all freight traffic handled by
MOR.
2.37      MOR's container transport operations are mainly geared toward domes-
tic containers, and are not developed enough to exploit the full potential of
modern containerization. Only about 6 percent of MOR's container cargo is
carried in ISO containers. The key measures MOR should take to modernize con-
tainer transport services are:
(a) Provide more reliable and frequent service, employing faster unit-
trains on main corridors, with a hub-and-spokes structure to consol-
idate traffic where it is advantageous to do so. In contrast, the
current system is basically a conventional freight service, with the
only difference being the use of containers.
(b) Provide a smooth multimodal link for ISO containers between seaports
and major inland destinations. The lack of an inland distribution
system of seaborne containers has hampered the development of for-
eign trade.
(c) Give top priority to satisfying customers rather than just achieving
efficient utilization of facilities/equipment. MOR needs to develop
a marketing capability it currently lacks.
2.38      The above and other related issues are discussed in Working Papers
Nos. 7 and 8, and would be addressed under the proposed project in the rail-
based container transport (RCT) study (para. 3.36) and the proposed pilot
container transport subcomponent (paras. 3 31-3.34).
Environmental Protection
2.39      Besides the track and equipment fleets summarized above, MOR is also
responsible for 35 factories, 180 locomotive depots, 120 wagon and coach
depots, 300 hospitals, hundreds of railway stations and numerous cleaning
facilities, electroplating shops and other facilities. All these facilities



- 16 -
contribute to air, noise, liquid, solid, and hazardous waste pollution. NOR
has made efforts to alleviate railway pollution over the past two decades. In
1972, MOR established the Department of Public Health and Environmental Pro-
tection. Since then, the size of MOR's environmental staff has grown to more
than 2,400. Also, MOR has set up training centers at two colleges for its
environmental staff and an institute to carry out research in environmental
protection. MOR has established environmental rules and regulations. For
construction projects, an environmental impact assessment is prepared by the
regional environmental protection office every year, which outlines protection
measures to be taken during the following year simultaneously with the proj-
ects, thereby preventing new sources of pollution and environmental damage.
2.40      To control railway pollution, MOR has taken several measures,
including constructing primary treatment plants to treat boiler, industrial
and hospital wastes; installing cyclones to remove suspended particulates from
gaseous emissions, and collecting boiler slag and ash and using them in con-
struction. Despite the progress achieved, MOR still lacks modern technical
know-how needed to control railway pollution more effectively (see Working
Paper No. 9). To increase its effectiveness in railway environmental protec-
tion, MOR launched in February 1992 an environmental protection study, which
would be supported under the proposed project. Part of this study has been
funded by UNDP (para. 3.39).
F. Future Reform Directions
2.41      As China becomes more market-oriented in the next 5 to 10 years, MOR
faces the important task of completing the process of transforming itself from
a government organization into an enterprise that is capable of playing its
economic and social role more effectively. In this future role, MOR should be
an autonomous, effectively regulated enterprise, which:
(a) provides a variety of safe and adequate transport services that meet
customer needs on a commercial basis;
(b) controls costs and refrains from using its monopoly power; and
(c)  maintains its financial self-sufficiency, i.e., has the ability to
self-finance (including through borrowing on market terms) all of
its operating and capital expenditures.
2.42      The preparation of MOR for its future role has been under way since
the early 1980s through introduction of the economic contract in 1986 and
enactment of the Railway Law in 1991; decentralization of its internal manage-
ment; enhancement of its capability for investment and financial planning; and
modernization of its track, equipment and information technology on a system-
wide basis. To advance further, additional steps are called for in the fol-
lowing areas (Annex 4):
(a) Reaulation. MOR should become financially self-sufficient and be
given more freedom to make business decisions (e.g., by relaxing
tariff regulation). The Government and MOR should improve the eco-
nomic contract by focusing on service quality and phase out all
price and interest subsidies.



_ 17 -
(b)  Internal Management.   OR should improve its management, incentive
and welfare systems, for both rail and nonrail transport businesses.
(c) Investment and Finance. NOR should ensure that its investment level
vill be sufficient to support economic growth; revamp its accounting
system; develop a cost accounting system; and improve its financial
reporting system.
(d) Systemwide Tochnoloav. MOR should upgrade further its information
technology; implement technology to increase traffic capacity at
minimum cost; improve its services through superior marketing and
technology; strengthen its maintenance systems; and boost its envi-
ronmental protection.
2.43      The additional reform steps mentioned above represent an integral
part of China's overall economic reform agenda, including price and enterprise
reforms in various sectors of the economy. Because these reforms are inter-
related across sectors, they must be undertaken in concert, and success of
reforms in one part of the economy, e.g., the railway system, will obviously
depend on success of the overall economic reforms.



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Oblectives
3.1       The Government is addressing critical infrastructure bottlenecks
through a combination of policy and institutional reforms aimed at improving
utilization of existing facilities and through investments aimed at expanding
capacities. Helping remove such bottlenecks is a cornerstone in the Bank's
assistance strategy for China (as explained in the railway strategy paper,
para. 2.3). The proposed project is designed within this framework. Its
primary objectives are: (i) to provide assistance for railway policy initia-
tives; (ii) to undertake the institutional development of the railway system;
(iii) to support railway capacity expansion investment; and (iv) to broaden
the scope of systemwide technological modernization. To achieve these objec-
tives, MOR has formulated with Bank assistance a policy component, an invest-
ment component, and a technical assistance component, as described in Sections
B, C and D below.
B. Policy Initiatives
3.2       The policy component comprises four subcomponents or studies which
support MOR's initiatives to improve its (i) investment planning; (ii) tariff
system; (iii) accounting system; and (iv) management and economic contract.
The proposed project would include technical assistance and training for these
studies, budgeted at $2.8 million, as well as associated training equipment
for a new international training center being created within MOR.
3.3       Investment Planning.  The main purpose of this study is to apply the
decision-support system MOR has developed with Bank assistance under the Rail-
way Investment Study (RIS) to strengthen MOR's investment planning capability.
This activity represents Phase II of RIS which deals with application and
enhancement of the RIS decision-support system developed in Phase I of RIS
under Railways V. The railway strategy paper explains in more detail the
results obtained to date (para. 2.3). So far the RIS system has been used in
three different ways.
3.4       First, it has been employed to rank the economic priority of pro-
posed railway investments and recommend those that should definitely be imple-
mented during SFYP. Among the top-ranked investments are two electrification
projects proposed to be financed by this loan.
3.5       Second, the RIS system has been used to optimize future railway
investments so as to maximize traffic capacity of the railway system. As
explained in the railway strategy paper (para. 2.3), this type of optimization
could increase total traffic throughput of the railway system by some 10 per-
cent. This 10 percent gain represents $4 to $5 billion of savings in railway
construction costs through the year 2000. The RIS system also has been
employed to improve the freight traffic routing procedure. This appears to
yield a gain in freight traffic throughput of about 10 percent.
3.6       Third, the RIS system has been used to determine the size of future
railway investments under higher growth scenarios. As mentioned (para. 2.14),



- 19 -
in mid-1992 the Government decided to raise the economic growth rate for plan-
ning purposes from about 6 percent to 8 to 9 percent through 2000. The
results of RIS analysis indicate that the magnitude of railway investment
through 2000 will have to increase by about 50 percent in real terms from the
current level (excluding equipment replacements) to accommodate the higher
growth rate (see the railway strategy paper). These extra investment require-
ments need to be met through increases in railway tariffs/surcharges and bor-
rowings (para. 5.16).
3.7       The RIS analysis system is expected to be applied by MOR in similar
ways to the above in the future, to improve the efficiency of railway invest-
ment. Assurances have already been obtained from MOR under the Fifth Railway
Proiect in regard to future applications of the RIS system rpara. 6.1(d) of
the Staff Appraisal Report for Railways V (Report No. 8439-CHA)1: "MOR will
use the RIS analytical techniques, upon satisfactory conclusions of the study,
in preparing future economically optimal investment programs." Also, the RIS
system is expected to be refined by MOR as needed to suit different types of
application.
3.8       Tariff Rationalization.  The main objectives of this study are to:
(i) ensure MOR's financial self-sufficiency; (ii) reduce structural distor-
tions in railway tariffs; and (iii) give MOR enough flexibility to set its
tariffs in response to cost and market conditions (see Working Paper No. 10).
This study complements a broader Price Reform Study, a cooperative exercise
between the Government and the Bank, to examine the feasibility of a new round
of price reforms in China in a macroeconomic context (Gray Cover Report
entitled, "Price Reform in China," No. 10414-CHA, May 28, 1992). The study
represents a first test case in which price reform options are reviewed in an
industry-specific context. MOR has accorded this study high priority. It has
formed a study team comprising members from SPC, MOF, SPB and MOR. The study
team is divided into two groups, a Working Group headed by MOR's Chief Econo-
mist, and a Policy Committee headed by the Senior Vice Minister of Railways,
and comprising senior members (director level) of SPC, MOF, SPB and MOR.
3.9       Since the study began in March 1992 (when its terms of reference
were agreed between MOR and the Bank), significant progress has been made on
several fronts. First, with Bank assistance, the study team has developed a
simplified economic costing model, based on the more comprehensive costing
study initiated under Railways I, to provide a basis for underpinning future
tariff setting. Second, the team has completed an analysis of railway costs
and tariffs as input to initial policy recommendations. Third, selected mem-
bers of the Policy Committee and the Working Group have traveled abroad (under
arrangements made by the Bank) to familiarize themselves with tariff practices
in foreign railways. Fourth, two actions have been taken to improve both the
level and structure of the tariff system. One action, taken in July 1992, has
been to increase the Railway Construction Fund surcharge, thereby boosting
freight revenues by about 35 percent and allowing MOR to finance 80 to 85 per-
cent of its current 8FYP capital investment plan (up from about 60 percent
previously). Another action, taken in September 1992, haa been to apply
higher tariffs for selected superior services, e.g., air-conditioned express
trains, to reflect the higher costs of providing them.



- 20 -
3.10      Additionally, the study team has expressed its intention to propose
further actions to improve the tariff structure across different types of
services, such as less-than-car-load, full-car-load, and containerized ship-
ments, as well as hard seat, soft seat, hard sleeper and soft sleeper ser-
vices. The main idea is to make tariffs for these services reflect their
underlying economic costs and the sensitivity of the demand for them to their
prices. The study team also has expressed its intention to propose pilot
programs to experiment with tariff deregulation. One program is to permit
tariffs for certain commodities, e.g., perishables, to vary freely between a
floor and a ceiling. Another program is to do "contract pricing" with
selected shippers, so that MOR can tailor both prices and services to mseet the
needs of individual shippers, and in the process minimize the combined logis-
tic costs for both the shippers and MOR. Both programs would be similar to
the pricing practices that prevail among North American railroads. There is
evidence that such a practice represents efficient pricing: Since rail trans-
port rates in the United States were deregulated in 1980, the average freight
revenue per ton-km in current dollars has been declining in almost every year.
Agreement was reached with the Borrower durina netotiations that. through SPC.
MOFP SPB. and MOR. it will: (i) by October 31. 1993. comDlete the tariff
study and prepare a set of recommandations and plans in consultation with the
Bank, and on the basis of the costina and analyses as well as Policies and
Practices. adopted in other countries, to rationalize the railway tariff sys-
tem with respect to the three main obiective. of this tariff study (par&. 3.8):
and (ii) thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations
and plans taking into account the Bank's comments rpara. 6.1(d)1.
3.11      Accounting Standards.  Modernization of accounting standards in
China, an overall responsibility of MOP, is a prerequisite for enterprise
reform in China. This study would be conducted in close cooperation with MOF
as a first test case for the industry sector. The main purpose of this study
is to develop and implement a new set of accounting standards consistent with
MOF's new national standards now under development (para. 2.19). Similarly to
the Tariff Study, NOR has given the Accounting Study high priority, and has
formed a study team, comprising a Working Group headed by the Director of the
Finance Bureau and a Policy Committee headed by the Senior Vice Minister (see
Working Paper No. 11).
3.12      The study has progressed well since its inception in July 1992.  The
study team has done a survey of all existing Chinese accounting principles
applicable to the railway subsector, and is now doing a survey of accounting
practices being used by railways in other countries. As next steps, the study
team will make a comparison between Chinese and international accounting prin-
ciples for railways, as well ai travel overseas to study accounting systems
used by other railvays. Additionally, the study team is expected to receive
training in the first half of 1993 on MOF's new accounting principles. Azree-
ment was reached with the Borrower during neaotiations that. throuth MOR. MOF
and other relevant aovernment atencies. it will: (i) by March 31. 1994. com-
plete this study accordina to terms of reference &treed with the Bank and
develop in consultation with the Bank a new set of accountina standards: and
(ii) thereafter take appropriate steps to imlement the new standards. taking
into consideration the Bank's comments rpara. 6.1(o)l.



- 21 -
3.13      Manazement and Economic Contract.  The main objectives of this study
are to determine and implement measures to improve (i) MOR's contractual rela-
tionship with the Government and (ii) its internal management. This study
would assist NOR staff in delving into the following subjects:
(a) enhancement of the economic contracting system between NOR and the
Government;
(b) improvement of productivity and quality of the railway transport
function;
(c) expansion of the scope of railway financial resource mobilization;
(d) possible divestiture of railway nontransport functions and restruc-
turing of the railway transport function;
(e) development and rationalization of railway human resources; and
(f) improvement of the railway housing system.
Among various issues to be tackled, the question of possibl, divestiture of
nonrailway transport units (e.g., railway factory and construction companies)
would be addressed in the context of MOR's readiness to take action, e.g.,
with respect to transferability of the railway welfare system, the corporate
strategies for divestiture candidates, etc. The question of labor rationali-
zation would also be addressed, including the question of how beat NOR can
deal with its staff who are increasingly being made redundant by improvements
in labor productivity. A relevant factor is the "diversified economy" part of
NOR's nonrailway transport business, which has served as a primary means of
absorbing redundant railway staff (para. 2.8; see Working Paper No. 12).
Because most of the issues must be addressed on a government-wide basis, the
study team would comprise not only MOR staff but also officials from other
relevant government agencies. Terms of reference for this study are expected
to be finalized by October 1993. Agreement was reached with the Borrower
during negotiations that. through NOR and other relevant zovernment agencies,
it will: (i) by June 30. 1995. complete this study accordina to terms of
reference to be agreed with the Bank and. in consultation with the Bank. Dre-
pare a set of recommendations and Dlans for imDrovina NOR's internal manage-
ment and its contractual relationshiD with the Governmentt and (ii) thereafter
take aDpropriate steDs to implement the recommendations and plans taking into
account the Bank's comments rDara. 6.1(f)1.
C. Investment for ExDansion and Nodernization
3.14      The proposed investment component comprises:
(a)  a capacity expansion subcomponent, for electrification and moder-
nization of a 694-km double-track Beijing-Zhengzhou line and a
1,094-km single-track Chengdu-Kurming line;
(b) three systemwide technological modernization subcomponents, to
assist MOR in:



- 22 -
(i) mechanizing track maintenance;
(ii)  modernizing parts manufacture for locomotives and rolling stock
(including some technology transfers); and
(iii)  upgrading the telecommunications network and implementing a
computerized Transport Management Information System (TMIS);
and
(c) a pilot container transport subcomponent.
3.15      All investment subcomponents listed above have been accorded top
priority by MOR and are justified by the RIS economic evaluation methodology.
The two proposed electrification projects in the capacity expansion subcompo-
nent have been ranked in the five highest-priority railway investments in the
8FYP, according to economic and social criteria, with the economic criteria
based on the RIS decision support system (see Working Paper No. 13). The
technical designs of the two electrification projects and the three systemwide
subcomponents are based on the results of various technological modernization
studies initiated under Railways IV and V. While the main purpose of the
electrification projects is to enlarge railway traffic capacity, the three
systemwide subcomponents aim primarily to improve the operating efficiency of
the whole railway system through technological modernization, thereby decreas-
ing railway operating costs and at the same time increasing railway capacity.
The proposed pilot container transport subcomponent represents implementation
of the 'immediate action plan" of the rail-based container transport study
(para. 3.36), to act on the most urgent measures for modernizing MOR's con-
tainer transport services.
3.16      The investment component would be carried out by MOR and is expected
to be completed by 1998. A set of indicators has been developed to allow the
effectiveness of each investment subcomponent to be monitored during its
period of operation (paras. 3.52(c), 3.53(b); Annex 7]. The individual sub-
components are described below.
3.17      Capacitv Expansion.  The Beiiinx-Zhenazhou line is part of the heav-
ily used Beijing-Guangzhou corridor (Map M.1) and is also one of China's most
severely bottlenecked railway sections (Map M.2). Operating at their capa-
city, different segments of the line now carry 50 to 67 pairs of freight
trains per day and 29 to 39 pairs of passenger trains per day. By enabling
the use of longer and more frequent trains the proposed electrification and
modernization would increase the traffic-carrying capacity of the line by
about 50 percent. Because of the very high transport demand, the Beijing-
Zhengzhou line is expected to be heavily used after the electrification,
despite the fact that a national highway is being built along the same corri-
dor.
3.18      The Chenadu-Kunmina line is the main line in southwest China, in
Sichuan and Yunnan provinces (Map M.1). The line passes through mountains
reaching 2,800 m above sea level. Four hundred twenty-seven tunnels add up to
344 km or 31 percent of the total line length. The Chengdu-Kunming line car-
ries mainly raw materials from mining and other resource areas to major pro-
cessing centers.  In 1990, different segments of the line carried 30 to 44



- 23 -
pairs of freight trains per day and five pairs of passenger trains per day.
Like the Beijing-Zhengzhou line, traffic on the Chengdu-Kunaming line reached
the line's capacity several years ago (Map M.2). However, unlike the Beijing-
Zhengzhou line, which has been double-tracked previously, the Chengdu-Kunming
line cannot be economically double-tracked due to the exorbitant cost of such
an undertaking in mountainous terrain.  Electrification and modernization on
this single-track line have been chosen as a more cost-effective alternative.
By permitting longer and more frequent trains to be run on the line the pro-
posed project would increase the traffic-carrying capacity of the line by
about 70 percent.
3.19      Existing technical standards, station layouts, and maintenance
facilities will be upgraded on both lines to accommodate longer and heavier
trains. In addition to electrification and power supply, the project includes
upgrading of the lines' signaling and telecommunications installations,
lengthening of station sidings from 850 m to 1,050 m for the Beijing-Zhengzhou
line, and from 650 m to 850 m for the Chengdu-Kunming line, work. on bridges
and tunnels, and the modification of locomotive maintenance workshops and
depots for electric locomotives. The technical design of electrification for
these two lines has incorporated recommendations made by the Electrification
Technology Study, launched under Railways V. These recommendations include:
(i) installation of power-operated breakers and provision of secondary pro-
tection for substations, to render the electrified operation faster and more
reliable; (ii) computerization of monitoring systems, to allow future mainte-
nance to be done on a condition-responsive as opposed to scheduled basis; and
(iii) installation of more reliable catenary components, to extend maintenance
and repair intervals.
3.20      The proposed electrification would produce two major types of eco-
nomic benefits. A first type is an increase in value-added to the economy of
freight traffic that will be shipped on the railway lines when additional
capacity becomes available, plus the economic value of extra passenger travel
made possible by the capacity addition. A second type of benefits represents
savings in train operating costs due to the switch from diesel to electric
traction (paras. 4.6-4.8). These savings are particularly large for the
Chengdu-Kunming line, which traverses mountainous terrain where diesel-powered
trains lose their efficiency at high altitudes. Besides energy savings bene-
fits, the proposed electrification would result in positive environmental
impacts overall, particularly as it would eliminate high concentrations of
particulates and carbon monoxide emitted by diesel engines in tunnels.
3.21      The question has been raised concerning future availability of elec-
trical power for each line. In the case of the Chengdu-Kunming line, the
region is expanding its hydroelectric power base and will have excess power in
the year 2000 and thereafter. In the case of the Beijing-Zhengzhou line,
where future power supply shortages are possible, a guarant-e has been
obtained from SPC that adequate supply would be made available for railway use
and that MOR would get a priority, if necessary (Annex 5). MOR has estab-
lished that the amount of power proposed to be consumed by the electrified
railway will be about 1 percent of the region's total electric power and there
will be net power savings per ton of goods hauled with electric locomotives
compared with diesel locomotives.



- 24 -
3.22      Track Maintenance Mechanization.  The main purpose of this system-
wide subcomponent is to assist MOR in modernizing the present track mainte-
nance system, which is largely manual (para. 2.28), into a mechanized system
of preventive planned maintenance. Mechanization of track maintenance,
coupled with proper track inspection and computerized monitoring, would result
in better track quality, which translates into lower electricity/fuel consump-
tion, less wear on the locomotives and rolling stock, and therefore, lower
train operating costs. Mechanization would also result in longer tim inter-
vals between track maintenance applications and therefore lower maintenance
costs.
3.23      This subcomponent includes two types of track maintenance mechaniza-
tion: track rehabilitation (rail, sleepers, fastenings and ballast) and rou-
tine track maintenance (ballast cleaning, broken sleeper and occasional rail
replacement, etc.), both of which would contribute toward more cost-effective
and safer railway operations. The subcomponent would involve the acquisition
of 40 sets of heavy-duty, high-performance track maintenance machines; special
calibration devices and rail flow detectors for track inspection cars; and a
computerized track monitoring system. This subcomponent has been prepared as
part of the short-term action plan to modernize MOR's track maintenance, for-
mulated under a Bank-financed study launched under Railways V (see Working
Paper No. 14).
3.24      Locomotive and Rolling Stock Parts Manufacture.  The main objective
of this systemwide subcomponent is to introduce modern machine tools for manu-
facturing critical parts of MOR's equipment fleets. These equipment parts
comprise: (i) connecting rods, electric rotating equipment, governors, injec-
tion pumps and nozzles, and turbo superchargers, for diesel locomotives; (ii)
brake cylinder equipment and wheel sets, for freight wagons; and (iii) spot
welding equipment for passenger coaches. A second objective of this subcompo-
nent is to finance the foreign exchange cost (estimated at $880,000) of trans-
ferring modern technology for (i) designing and manufacturing airbrakes
(including the empty/load box); and (ii) casting equipment parts (soe Working
Paper No. 15). As mentioned (para. 2.30), this subcomponent incorporates some
of the highest-priority measures recommended by a study launched under Rail-
ways V to improve the manufacturing and maintenance of MOR's equipment fleets.
3.25      The proposed introduction of modern machine tools and technology
would help reduce the froquency of failures of MOR's diesel locomotives and
freight wagons and thereby improve their reliability, availability and utili-
zation. The resulting improvement in some of these critical components would
also lead to fuel savings and savings in the costs of manufacture and mainte-
nance.
3.26      Telecommunications and Transport Management Information System
(TIS). The main objectives of this systemide subcomponent are: (i) to
support expansion and modernization of MOR's telecommunications network during
1993-95; (ii) to implement Phase I of a computerized THIS, thereby automating
MOR's wagon operations on a systemwide basis; and (iii) to strengthen MOR's
capability for modernizing information technology through human resource
development. This subcomponent represents an initial phase of MOR's long-term
offort to upgrade its railway information technology to the level of modern
railwvays to increase the flow of vital information for decision-making at



- 25 -
all levels, and to make railway operations more efficient and flexible in
meeting the needs of shippers and passengers.
3.27      The modernization and expansion of MOR's telecommunications network
has been planned over short, medium, and long terms under the Telecommunica-
tions Master Plan study being financed by the Bank under Railways V (para.
2.33). Out of the short-term investment plan, MOR has selected high-priority
programs to be included under this subcomponent (see Working Paper No. 16).
These programs are to:
(a) automate and digitalize the local and long-distance telephone net-
works (Chart C.3);
(b) expand and digitalize the transmission network; and
(c) install a new data communications network (based on packet-switching
technology) (Chart C.4).
In addition, a program of technical assistance and training would support
MOR's efforts in modernizing the railway telecom system (para. 3.40).
3.28      Implementation of the proposed THIS would involve:  (i) acquisition
and installation of hardware (a mainframe computer, minicomputers, and other
components); (ii) acquisition and adaptation of existing THIS softwarel and
(iii) technical assistance and training programs for installing and operating
TMIS (para. 3.40). To ensure its smooth implementation, HOR has formed mall
coordination groups for both t-lecommunications and THIS under an information
technology group, to be responsible for implementing the telecommunications
and TMIS subcomponent (see Working Paper No. 16). MOR has already made good
progress: it has completed the procurement steps, culminating in an award to
a foreign railway consulting firm for TMIS software and related technical
assistance and training. Installation and adaptation of the software are now
under way.
3.29      The economic benefits of this proposed subcomponent come in differ-
ent forms, some more easily quantifiable than others. The most obvious and
easily quantifiable benefits are savings in labor used in telephone operations
and in preparing and processing operations data for freight wagons, as well as
savings in wagon investment owing to better management of the wagon fleet
afforded by the computerized TMIS.
3.30      The benefits which are less obvious and more difficult to quantify,
but potentially far-reaching in the long term, are what many modern railways
did not foresee at the beginning but indeed experienced several years into
implementation of similar THISs: these THIS. have drastically improved their
labor productivity and have served as a critical link in an evolutionary pro-
cess to make fundamental changes in the policies and structures of the rail-
ways. A main reason for this is that, once installed, the THIS made it easier
for the railway to streamline its management structure, e.g., by reducing the
number of layers or by evolving a lines-of-business organization with proper
accountability and control (see Working Paper No. 17). The TMIS under the
proposed project should have similar impacts on the Chinese railway system,



- 26 -
but probably sooner, given that, as a late starter, MOR has the rich experi-
ence of other railways to draw from.
3.31      Pilot Container TransDort Modernization.  There is a growing need to
establish intermodal links between major industrial centers and between hin-
terland provinces and coastal ports. Such links are essential to meeting the
logistical needs of the fast-growing light industry sector. They are also
essential to supporting government policies to widen domestic markets and to
help enterprises in interior provinces participate in China's export drive.
In the light of these needs, MOR has recently decided to expand and modernize
its container transport system. To this end, MOR and the Bank have agreed to
start a pilot project on selected rail corridors. The main purpose of this
subcomponent is to demonstrate the operational and economic feasibility of a
frequent and regularly scheduled container transport service and, thus, to
guide future expansion of modern container services to cover major corridors
(see Working Paper No. 18). The other objectives are: (i) to encourage MOR
to shift priority from domestic cargo to international cargo; (ii) to upgrade
container handling equipment and container rolling stock; (iii) to modernize
container operations by eliminating damage-prone hump-yard operations and
minimizing the number of stations to be served; and (iv) to strengthen the
institutional capability in the marketing and handling of international cargo.
3.32      Two intersecting corridors have been selected (Chart C.5):  the
Harbin-Beijing-Zhengzhou-Guangzhou corridor (3,600 km) and the Shanghai-
Zhengzhou-Xian corridor (1,510 km). MOR's plan is to operate daily unit
trains along these two corridors according to published timetables. Operation
on a partial basis already started in April 1992; a full-fledged operation is
scheduled to begin in January 1995. The expected increase in container
throughput would be 2.2 million tons per annum.
3.33      This subcomponent would provide financing for the purchase of
rubber-mounted gantry cranes, top lifters, tractor-trailers, ISO containers,
flat cars, other equipment and technical assistance (para. 3.40). This sub-
component is based on a recommended action plan derived from the RCT study
(para. 3.36).
3.34      This pilot operation would represent a considerable improvement over
the existing service. Its major benefits would be time savings to be obtained
from faster and more frequent services, damage reduction due to protection
given by containers, operating cost savings derived from traffic diversion
from road to rail, and value-added to the economy derived from an increase in
rail capacity.
D. Technical Assistance for Svstemwide Technolotical Modernization
3.35      This component provides technical assistance and training for MOR to
carry out three major studies, plus other activities. The three studies are
designed to prepare action plans of technological modernization ystemwide,
for possible implementation under future railway projects. The first two
studies have received funding of $300,000 each from the Japan Grant Facility,
and the third study has received UNDP funding of $200,000, to cover two thirds
($800,000) of the total foreign exchange cost of the studies' technical assis-



- 27 -
tance and training ($1.2 million). The remaining one third ($400,000) would
be covered by the proposed loan.
3.36      Rail-Based Container Transport Study.  The main objective of the RCT
study is to prepare immediate, medium-term and long-term action plans for
modernizing and expanding the railway's container transport services, with a
special emphasis on international container movement. Launched in November
1991, the study now has produced an immediate action plan, which provides the
basis for the proposed pilot container transport subcomponent described above.
As next steps, the study would formulate medium- and long-term action plans
for possible implementation under future railway projects (see Working Paper
No. 19). Durina netotiations. agreement was reached with the Borrower that
throuah MOR it will:  () by October 31. 1993. complete this study accordint
to terms of reference agreed with the Bank. and prepare in consultation with
the Bank a set of recommendations and plans for expanding and modernizina
rail-based container transport services: and (ii) thereafter take apDropriate
steps to implement the recommendations and plans takina into account the
Bank's comments rpara. 6.1(Q)1.
3.37      Cost-Effective Technology Evaluation (CETE) Study.  The main objec-
tive of this study is to determine and implement more cost-effective techno-
logical measures for increasing railway line capacity at lower capital and
operating costs. Such technological measures are expected to include the use
of heavier trains to carry more loads per train; better signaling technology
and changes in train operating rules to allow more frequent trains; and higher
speeds of freight trains to provide more line throughput. Technological
options for high-speed passenger transport services (up to 300 km/h) along
heavily trafficked corridors such as Beijing-Shanghai would also be consid-
ered.
3.38      Launched in August 1992, the study is being conducted by a Chinese
team in close cooperation with the Bank. Since its launching, significant
progress has been made. In October/November 1992, a panel of international
experts visited China to examine current operations on two railway lines and
provided information on cost-effective technological measures currently in use
in other countries (France, Japan, Canada and the USA) and on high-speed rail
planning and operations. Potential line capacity increases of 40 percent or
possibly more at relatively low capital investment cost could be achieved with
additional measures above that attainable from MOR's traditional technological
options. However, it would take 5 to 10 years of lead time before such cost-
effective technological measures are realized in China. Implementing superior
technological measures would lead to significant savings in China's scarce
capital. The CETE study is intended to provide MOR with short- and long-term
action plans for possible implementation under future railway projects (see
Working Paper No. 20). During nexotiations. agreement was reached with the
Borrower that through MOR it will: (1) by October 31. 1993. complete this
study according to terms of reference aareed with the Bank. and prepare in
consultation with the Bank a set of recommendations and Plans for uDaradinR
railway technoloav: and (ii) thereafter take appropriate steps to implement
the recommendations and Plans taking into account the Bank's comments fnara.
6. 1(h 1.



- 28 -
3.39      Environmental Protection Study.  The main objectives of this study
are to determine end implement masures for: (i) solving NOR's moat pressing
environmental problems; (ii) strengthening MOR's capability for performing
environmental protection activities; and (iii) developing and implementing
medium- and long-term strategies for tackling its environmental problems. To
address the first objective, the Bank has received a UNDP grant fund of
$200,000 to finance the preparation of a comprehensive, cost-effective action
plan for sterilizing passenger trains, handling garbage and nightsoil from
passenger trains, and abating noise generated by passing trains (para. 2.40).
During June 1992 a team of foreign consultants appointed for this task visited
China to work with MOR staff. Since then the major findings from this visit
have been discussed with MOR, with a view to developing an action plan, for
possible implementation under a future railway project. As to objectives (ii)
and (iii), draft terms of reference for a study to achieve them have been
discussed with MOR staff. These terms of reference are expected to be final-
ized by June 1993. During negotiations. oareement was reached with the Bor-
rower that through MOR it will: (i) by September 30. 1994. complete this
study accordine to terms of reference to be agreed with the Bank. and Prepare
in consultation with the Bank a set of recommendations and Plans for strength-
enina MOR's environmental Protection ca2abilitv and addressina railway pollu-
tion problems: and (ii) thereafter take &o2ropriate steps to implement the
recommendations and plans taking into account the Bank's comments rpara.
6.1(i)1
3.40      Other Technical Assistance and Training.  In addition to the above
three studies, this subcomponent would finance four other activities for a
total amount of $4.05 million. A first activity is a small investigation to
be conducted by MOR staff to adapt technology for steel-wh-el casting from
abroad (see Working Paper No. 21). A second activity is a technical assis-
tance and training program designed to provide MOR staff with state-of-the-art
knowledge and skills in telocomunications (para. 3.27). A third activity is
a technical assistance program for preparing computerized container informa-
tion systems to support the pilot container operation (para-. 3.31-3.34). And
a fourth activity comprises a technical assistance program for adapting and
testing THIS software; and an extensive training program for MOR personnel on
how to operate THIS (in more than 1,000 locations) (see para. 3.28 and Working
Paper No. 16).
E. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.41      Cost estimates for civil works are based on detailed engineering and
on unit costs of similar works carried out by MOR in recent years. The costs
of equipment and materials to be imported are based on current world market
prices for such items. The cost of equipment and materials to be procured
locally and not to be financed by the Bank was estimated on the basis of cur-
rent domestic prices. The estimated project costs are expressed in January
1993 prices. Price contingencies are based on local annual inflation rates of
6 percent for 1993 to 1999, and foreign inflation rates of 3.8 percent for
1993, 1.9 percent for 1994, 2.7 percent for 1995, 3.4 percent for 1996, and
3.6 percent for 1997 to 1999. The exchange rate of Y 5.75 to the US dollar
was used for translating the foreign exchange costs. MOR is exempt from
import duties and local taxes.



- 29 -
3.42       Proiect Costs and Financing Plan.  The estimated project coats
including contingencies are $1,183 million, of which 61 percent or $727 mil-
lion represents direct and indirect foreign exchange coats. Cost estimates
are summarized in Tables T3.1 and 3.1; full details are given in Tables 3.2-
Table T3.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND BANK PARTICIPATION
(January 1993 price)
Fore ign  Bank
Y million         S million equivalent   as Z of  loan
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   total  ($ min)
Investment Components
Beijing-Zhengzhou line    755.7 1,105.9 1,861.7 137.7  189.3    327.0  57.9    99.1
Chengdu-Kunming line      704.6 1,370.8 2,075.4 128.4  234.6    363.0  64.6    79.2
Track maintenance         114.8   136.4   251.3  20.9   24.5       45.4  54.0    45.3
Locomotives L rolling atock  16.8   117.3   134.1   3.1   20.5     23.6  87.0    20.5
Telecommunications & THIS   534.2   907.4 1,441.6  91.2  155.2    246.4  63.0   109.0
Pilot container transport   167.0   118.1   285.1  30.4   20.3     50.7  39.9    17.7
Policy & Technical Assistance
Components                  3.0    50.6    53.6   0.5    8.8        9.3  94.4     8.8
Base Costs            2.296.1 3.806.7 6.102.8 412.2  653.2  1.065.4 460.8   379.5
Physical contingencies la   104.2   170.1   274.3  18.7   29.1      47.8  60.9    13.9
Baseline Estimate     2.400.3 3.976.8 6.377.0 431.0  682.1  1.113.2  ,6.    393.4
Price contingencies /b      293.0   542.8   835.8  25.5   44.8       70.3  63.7    26.6
Total Proiect Costa    2.693.3 4.519.6 7.212.9 456.4  727.1  1.183.5  61.    420.0
/a Baaed on physical contingencies of about 10 percent for civil works and 5 percent or lower
for equipment.
lb Price contingencies as percentages of base coats plus physical contingencies are 13.1 percent
for local costs (in yuan) and 6.3 percent for foreign costs (in US dollars).
3.7. A financing plan to cover these costs is shown in Table T3.2. MOR does
not capitalize interest expenses as interest during construction. Interest
expenses relating to the implementation of the proposed project vould be cov-
ered by NOR's projected revenues.  The $420 million Bank loan would finance
35 percent of the total project costs or 58 percent of the foreign exchange
costs, for equipment, materials, technology transfers, and technical assis-
tance and training. The remaining financing requirement of $763 million would
be met by NOR's own funds, for all civil works and resettlement, and the
equipment, materials, technology transfers, and technical assistance and
training that are not covered by the Bank loan. Of the $763 million to be
financed by NOR, $307 million represents indirect foreign exchange costs of
materials for civil works and equipment and other materials to be purchased
with MOR's domestic-currency funds (with almost all procurement to be executed
through LCB or local shopping). Interest expenses for the proposed loan
represent a direct foreign exchange requirement, which can be met because MOR
is allowed to convert its domestic-currency funds into foreign exchange
required to service its foreign debt.  MOR has not had difficulties with fur-
nishing counterpart funds for financing the previous Bank loans.



- 30 -
Table T3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
NOR      Bank loan     Total costs
Local                      456.4         0.0          456.4
Foreign exchange           307.1       420.0          727.1
Total                  763.5       420.0         1.183.5
Investment component
Civil vorks              560.5         0.0           560.5
Resettlement              11.4         0.0            11.4
Equipment & materials    190.3       409.9           600.2
Technology transfers       0.8         0.9             1.7
Policy & technical assis-
tance component            0.5         9.2            9.7
Total                  763.5       420.0         1.183.5
3.43      Onlendins Terms.  In 1984, when the Bank's First Railway Loan was
appraised, the Government took a positive step in converting customary grants
to interest-bearing loans to HOR. For Railways I-III, the onlending rate was
4 percent per year. This rate has been raised gradually since then to 5 per-
cent for Railways IV and 6 percent for Railways V. For the proposed project,
MOP and MOR have agreed to an onlending rate equal to the Bank's standard
variable interest rate, for 20 years of maturity including 5 years of grace,
with MOR bearing the foreign exchange risk. This understanding was confirmed
at negotiations.
F. Proiect ImDlementation
3.44      The planned implementation schedule is summarized in Table 3.8 and
detailed in Annex 6. The proposed project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1998, and the closing date of the proposed loan would be June 30,
1999. Implementation arrangements would be similar to those of the previous
railway loans. Detailed engineering for the Beijing-Zhengzhou and Chengdu-
Kunming lines was carried out by MOR's Electrification Design Institutes in
Tianjin and Chengdu, respectively. Construction would be carried out by vari-
ous construction companies of MOR to be selected under domestic competitive
procedures (para. 3.48). The companies are all well equipped and have long
experience in this type of work, specifically with civil works to be carried
out on tracks where heavy traffic flow has to be maintained. Similar works
have been successfully implemented in this manner under previous projects.
Implementation of the other components of the project would be carried out by
MOR with the help of consultants as needed.
3.45      Until 1991, procurement under ongoing railway projects had experi-
enced significant delays. These delays were caused by the relatively cumber-
some procurement procedures as well as the need to procure a relatively large
share of sophisticated equipment and technology requiring complex technical
specifications. At the Bank's urging, MOR has in the past 18 months taken
several corrective steps: besides employing standard model documents that
have been prepared specifically for China, MOR has developed a computerized



- 31 -
procurement monitoring and processing system, streamlined its procurement
procedures, and offered its procurement staff incentives to encourage speedy
preparation of draft tender documents. These measures have produced signifi-
cant improvements. For example, the total amount of contracts awarded under
the five ongoing railway loans during a 15-month period ending in mid-December
1992 was $297 million, representing about 26 percent of total commitments for
the five loans. The corresponding figures for the preceding 15 months are
$153 million and 13 percent. Following this surge in contract awards, railway
loan disbursements are expected to accelerate as suppliers deliver the goods
procured under these contracts. To further expedite the procurement process
under the proposed project, MOR has carried out advance procurement arrange-
ments.  It has submitted to the Bank draft technical specifications for equip-
ment worth more than 50 percent of the loan amount.
G. Procurement
3.46      Procurement of almost all Bank-financed equipment, materials and
technology transfers would be subject to international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement. A number of small
items worth $200,000 equivalent per order or less and totaling no more than
$10.0 million equivalent would be purchased by local shopping on the basis of
quotations solicited from at least three potential suppliers. The list of
goods is given in Tables 3.10-3.16.
3.47      Bank-financed contracts above a threshold of $2.0 million equivalent
would be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures, using recently Stan-
dardized model documents for procurement prepared by the Government of China
and the Bank. The review process would cover at least 45 bid packages to be
procured by ICB for goods contracts valued over $200,000 equivalent, and for
all technology transfer contracts. In bid evaluation, Chinese manufacturers
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent of the CIF cost of com-
peting imports, or the relevant prevailing level of customs duties NOR would
have to pay, if it were not exempt from import duties and local taxes, which-
ever is lower. Technical assistance would be contracted in accordance with
the "Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants," with contracts valued
greater than $100,000 equivalent each being subject to prior Bank review.
3.48      For items not financed by the Bank, government procurement proce-
dures would apply except for resettlement (paras. 3.55, 3.56; Annex 8). Such
items comprise civil works, various local materials, and miscellaneous equip-
ment. Standard government procedures require MOR to ask at least three com-
peting firms to provide bids in a competition. The expected procurement
methods and the likely amounts involved are shown in Table T3.3.
H. Disbursement
3.49      Disbursement of the proposed loan would be for (a) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for the CIF cost of imported equipment and materials;
(b) 100 percent of the ex-factory cost (excluding taxes) of locally procured
equipment and materials; (c) 75 percent of the local costs of other locally
procured equipment and materials; (d) 100 percent of technology transfers; and
(e) 100 percent of consultants' services and training. Domestic transport
from a port or factory would not be eligible for Bank financing.



- 32 -
Tale T3.3l2 SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCURDEKN ARRABMNTSU
($ million)
Procurement method
Project component              ICB           Other l          NBF Lb         Total
Investment component
Civil works                                   -             560.5/c         560.5
Rasettl ment                   -              -              11.4            11.4
Equipment & materials        399.9           14.0           186.3/d         600.2
(399.9)         (10.0)                         (409.9)
Technology transfers          0.9             -              0.8              1.7
(0.9)                                          (0.9)
Policy and tchnical             -               9.2            0.5             9.7
assistance components                        (9.2)                           (9.2)
Total                     400.8           23.2           759.5          1,183.5
(400.8)         (19.21                         (420.0)
La Local shopping and consultants' services.
/b NBF - Not Bank-financed.
Le Local competitive bidding (LCB).
/d LCB and local shopping.
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amount. to be financed by the Bank loan.
3.50      Disbursements against contracts for goods valued at less than
$200,000 equivalent each, consulting firm contracts valued leoe than $100,000
equivalent each, and expenses on training would be made on the basis of State-
ments of Expenditure (SOEs). To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account
would be established with an authorized allocation of $23.0 million represent-
ing about four months of expected expenditures on average. Replonishment
would be made monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down by 50 per-
cent of its initial deposit, whichever occurs first. Documentation supporting
the SOEs would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be kept in the project
office in Beijing and made available for review by the Bank's supervision
missions. Expenses of up to $600,000 are expected to be incurred after
August 31, 1992, but before loan signing, for technical assistance and train-
ing activities considered to be critical to a rapid project start-up. It is
recommended that these expenses be retroactively financed by the proposed
loan.
3.51      A schedule of estimated disbursements, based on the assumption that
the proposed loan would become effective by September 1993, is given in Table
3.9. These disbursement projections are close to the standard profile for
transport projects in China. The projections are conservative with respect to
the positive effects of advance procurement arrangements made during the proj-
ect's preparation (para. 3.45).



- 33 -
I. Proiect Monitorint and SuDervision
3.52      To keep track of the progress and effectiveness of the project's
implementation, an understandint was reached with the Borrower during negotia-
tions that NOR will Drovide the Bank with the following types of periodic
reports during each year of proiect implementation:
(a)  audited reports for the Project Accounts, the Special Account, the
Statement of Expenditure, and the MOR consolidated financial state-
ments (by June);
(b) the status of implementation for the investment component--including
the procurement of equipment and services, the construction of
facilities, and the development/installation of software systems, as
specified in Annex 6 (by March, June, September, and December);
(c) the performance of each investment subcomponent during the period of
operation to measure the achievement of the project's objectives, as
set forth in Annex 7 (by June and December);
(d) the status of resettlement under the capacity expansion subcomponent
(paras. 3.55-3.56) (by June and December); and
(e) the results of monitoring and evaluation of the resettlement (para.
3.56) (by March).
During negotiations, an understanding was reached with the Borrower on the
contents of these reports.
3.53      In addition, agreement was reached with the Borrower that MOR will
[para. 6(a)]:
(a) meet the target dates for the implementation activities listed in
para. 3.52(b), given in Annex 6; and
(b) maintain a set of performance indicators, at or better than their
agreed upon targets, specified in Annex 7.
3.54      Normally, two Bank supervision missions per year would be required
during the implementation period. A higher frequency of missions may be
required depending on the progress of the project implementation. Because of
its size and complexity, the project would require above-average supervision
staff-weeks, especially in the first 2 to 3 years of implementation, as it
would involve preparation and execution of policy initiatives, as well as
transfers of complicated technology. The total amount of time of Bank staff
and consultants required for supervising the proposed project is estimated at
about 80 staff-weeks. This estimate incorporates staff-week savings expected
from combining supervision of the proposed project with that of other railway
projects. A supervision plan is given in Annex 9.



- 34 -
J. Environmental Impacts and Resettlement
3.55      None of the investment subcomponents described above would have
adverse impacts on the environment, and some of them would, in fact, have
positive impacts (the proposed project is accorded Environment Assessment
Category B). However, the proposed electrification of the Beijing-Zhengzhou
and Chengdu-Kunming lines under the capacity expansion subcomponent would
entail the construction of power substations and related works, which would
result in resettlement of about 6,700 people who live at some 150 construction
sites (roughly 45 people per site). No sites of notable historical or cul-
tural value are on or near the land to be acquired, nor does the land contain
habitats of endangered species. MOR has submitted a resettlement action plan
satisfactory to the Bank (see Working Paper No. 30). The resettlement
requirements are summarized below:
Number of people losing
Number of people         part or all of their
needing nev housing          cultivated land
1992                25                        322
1993             1,308                      1,890
1994-96            749                      2,416
Total        2.082                      4,628
3.56      While resettlement activities would be funded by MOR, the responsi-
bility for planning and implementing resettlement rests with villages and
townships in rural areas and with city district governments in urban areas.
The local branches of the Land Administration Office are charged with monitor-
ing resettlement activities, and the State Audit Administration audits the use
of funds. Experience under previous railway projects has shown this arrange-
ment to be satisfactory. In 1992, MOR generously funded resettlement, with
compensation rates that averaged 15 times the net value of production on
acquired land. Continuation of these compensation levels would provide a
strong basis for satisfactory resettlement. To ensure satisfactory resettle-
ment performance, MOR has contracted with Southwestern Jiaotong University to
monitor resettlement activity and alert MOR to problems. MOR will make avail-
able to the Bank annual reports on the results of monitoring and evaluation of
the resettlement to be prepared by the university (para. 3.52(e)). In the
past, MOR has undertaken to intervene to correct any resettlement problems
identified (Annex 8). Agreement was reached with the Borrower during nexotia-
tions that MOR will ensure that land acquisition and resettlement of people
will be done according to the Plan aareed with the Bank fRara. 6.1(b)1.
3.57      Besides the resettlement impacts, the proposed electrification gen-
erally has positive environmental impacts, mainly in reducing air pollution
along the two railway lines to be electrified, due to the change in tractive
power from diesel to electric. The electric power would come from coal-burn-
ing thermal power plants in the case of Beijing-Zhengzhou and principally from
hydropower in the case of Chengdu-Kunming. These power plants serve general
power users, of which railway usage is about 1 percent (Annex 5). Due to the
greater efficiency of air pollution control for large thermal plants and no
air pollution from the operation of hydro facilities, the switch from diesel



- 35 -
to electric power would reduce net emissions of air pollutants. This is par-
ticularly true for train operators and passengers in tunnels on the Chengdu-
Kunming line because diesel locomotives are less efficient in tunnels and
produce concentrated emissions in this confined space. These emissions are
now sucked into the coach ventilation systems in the tunnels, creating even
higher concentrations of particulates and carbon monoxide.
3.58      There would be other minor impacts of the investment subcomponents
where fully mechanized track maintenance replaces manual track maintenance,
including pollution associated with diesel-powered maintenance equipment.
These impacts would be offset by less pollution from work gang camps in remote
areas and from les transportation of work gangs. The environmental impacts
of new technology for manufacturing locomotive and rolling stock parts are
minor and may possibly be positive overall due to the reduction of waste with
the new technology. No significant construction is anticipated for these sub-
components.
3.59      Finally, positive environmental impacts are expected to result from
the implementation of recomendations and plans to be prepared as part of the
environmental study launched under the proposed project (par&. 3.39).



- 36 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF PROJECT-FINANCED INVESTMENTS
A. Introduction
4.1       The economic evaluation for the proposed project focuses on the
following five investm-nt subcomponents: (i) capacity expansion; (ii) track
maintenance; (iii) locomotive and rolling stock parts manufacture; (iv) tele-
communications and Transportation Management Information System (THIS); and
(v) pilot container service. These subcomponents account for over 99 percent
of total project costs. The economic analysis was carried out for each of
these five subcomponents separately, as explained below.
4.2       The economic evaluation was assisted by the analysis system devel-
oped in the Railway Investment Study (RIS) in two major ways. First, the RIS
system provided systemwide screening of all proposed railway capacity expan-
sion projects; this screening allowed MOR to select the railway lines whose
expansion would have the greatest impact on system capacity as well as a high
economic rate of return. And second, results of analysis using the RIS system
show that estimates of (i) the economic value-added per ton of induced traf-
fic, and (ii) the induced traffic volumes made in this evaluation exercise are
indeed conservative.
4.3       All monetary inputs and outputs used in the evaluation were obtained
by converting financial costs to economic costs using economic shadow costs
and their related conversion factors. For costs requiring foreign exchange,
these conversion factors have taken into account a shadow exchange rate which
is higher than the official exchange rate (Y 6.0 instead of Y 5.75 per $1).
For traded goods, the CIF prices of imports and the FOB prices of exports were
used to estimate the costs of materials and equipment; adjustments were made
for the costs of inland transport. The general methodology used in the eco-
nomic evaluation is explained in Working Paper No. 22.
B. Main Benefits
4.4       The estimated net economic benefits of the five investment subcompo-
nents are summarized in Table T4.1 below in terms of the net present value
(NPV) and the economic internal rate of return (ERR). The net present values
for the subcomponents are broken down into the following eight categories:
(a) Additional value-added to the economy due to an increase in the
throughput of the railway system. This is the largest category of
benefits (52 percent).
(b) TransRort cost sevinas due to the use of more cost-effective tech-
nology and/or a more efficient use of railway equipment and facili-
ties. This is the second largest benefits category (36 percent).
(c) Track rehabilitation cost savinas due to an extension of the lives
of rails, sleepers, etc., resulting from improvements in track main-
tenance and renewal.



- 37 -
(d) Accident cost savinas due to a reduction in the frequency of train
accidents resulting from better track maintenance and renewal.
(a) Labor and materials cost savinas due to the mechanization of track
maintenance end renewal; a reduction in the frequency of equipment
maintenance and repair resulting from the use of more reliable com-
ponents; and a reduction in the extent of manual tolephone witching
operations and data preparation and processing resulting from better
telecommunications and the computerized THIS.
(f) Savings in locomotive and rolling stock investment due to (i) an
increase in utilization of the equipment fleet resulting from more
equipment reliability afforded by higher-quality components; and
(ii) better management of the fleet occasioned by improved telecom-
munications and the computerized THIS.
(g) In-transit time savings due to more responsive and more efficient
container operations.
(h) Freight damage cost savinas due to more use of containers and better
care given to containerized cargo.
In estimating the above benefits, special attention was given to avoiding
double-counting both between and within the subcomponents.
4.5       The policy component of the project will improve the efficiency of
the railway in meeting the future demands of the railway users (shippers and
passengers) and allow MOR to support more general economic reformA (e.g., the
growth of private producers and shippers). These benefits are not quantified
in this report.
C. Capacity Exoansion
4.6       The proposed electrification projects are expcted to increase traf-
fic from the current levels by 50 percent for Beijing-Zhengzhou and 70 percent
for Chengdu-Kunming by the year 2000 (paras. 3.17-3.18). The major increase
in freight carried is expocted to occur in coal and other bulk or semibulk
commodities for the Beijing-Zhengzhou line and for ores, phosphates, iron and
steel products and lumber for the Chengdu-Runming line. Capacity increases
ar- expected to be shared between freight and passenger services according to
the current shares of freight and passenger traffic.
4.7       The two electrification projects were evaluated separately (see
Working Paper No. 23). Their quantifiable benefits are:
(a) increased value-added to the economy for the additional freight and
passenger traffic that will use the railvay system due to the
increase in capacity; and
(b) savings in train operating costs due to the change to electrified
operations.



- 38 -
Table T4.1: NET PRESENT VALUE BY SUICOHPONET
Capacity    Track    Loco. &    Tlecom.  Containar
Type of benefit /a    expansion  mainten.  R.S. main,  and THIS   service      Total
Y mln  I  Ymln       Y lan  2  Ymln  Z    ln         Y lan    2
Value-added to the
economy lb        12,214  61   171/c 33      -   -     -   -    54  29 12,439  52.8
Transport cost
savings            7,809  39   269  52    94   8       -   -    92  49  8,264  35.1
Track rehabilitation
cost savings           -   -    31   6       -   -     -   -      -   -      31   0.1
Accident cost savings    -   -    16   3      -   -      -   -      -   -      16   0.1
Labor and material
cost savings           -   -    31   6   140  11   934  59        -   -  1,105   4.7
Locomotive or rolling
stock investment
savings                -   -      -   - 1,020  81   649  41       -   -  1,669   7.1
In-transit time
savings                -   -      -   -     -   -      -   -    32  17    32   0.1
Freight dmage cost
savings                                -   -                      9   5       9    I
Total NPV       20.023 100   518 100 1.245 100 1.583 100   187 100 23.565 100.0
Overall EI  (1)             22         22        >50         49        21            23
La For each subcomponent, the discounted investment cost was allocated to the various benefits
categories in proportion to the magnitudes of the benefits.
Lb The value-added benefits for the aubcomponents are all due to line capacity increases. They
do not overlap and are additive.
/c There is also loss in line capacity for the part of this subcomponent that increases mainte-
nance vindow time (see Working Paper No. 24).
Id Smaller than 0.05.
The value-added benefits were estimated in terms of the net value per ton of
freight contributed to the economy using a conservative weighted average for
the different commodities to be produced in the future. The benefits for the
additional passengers to be carried on the improved lines were estimated in a
simplified manner in terms of the equivalent freight that might be carried
without the passenger use of the line capacity, resulting in a conservative
estimate of total project benefits.
4.8        In addition to the direct costs of line improvements and locomotive
and rolling stock acquisition, two types of complementary capital costs were
included in the economic evaluation: the costs of providing the electric
power generation facilities for the electric lines and the investment costs
needed for producing the extra coodities to be carried on the improved
lines. The resulting net present values (NPVs) for the package of investments
discounted at 12 percent were Y 11.0 billion for Beijing-Zhengzhou and Y 9.1
billion for Chengdu-Kunming. The economic rates of return (ERRs) were 20 per-
cent and 29 percent, respectively (Table 4.1). Even without taking into
account the positive effects of induced traffic stemming from suppressed
demand, these electrification projects would still be economically justified:
The net present value for the two lines were Y 5.7 billion and Y 7.1 billion,
respectively. Indeed, the value-added benefits are so conservatively esti-
mated that, when they were removed from the economic analysis along with the
corresponding complementary capital costs, the ERRs for the lines went up to
45 and 48 percent, respectively.



- 39 -
D. Track Maintenance Mechanization
4.9       The quantifiable benefits of the proposed maintenance mechanization
are track maintenance cost savings, train operating cost savings and accidents
(in the case of routine maintenance), economic value-added du- to increased
line capacity (in the case of track rehabilitation) and delaying of periodic
maintenance investments. The maintenance cost savings in both cases are due
to the fact that each gang equipped with new technology can undertake mainte-
nance or renewal of a greater length of track than the current manual or semi-
automated gangs. The train operating cost savings come from the fuel savings
and reduction in the unit costs of locomotive and rolling stock maintenance
when track condition is improved. The reduced accident rates lead to both
lower accident costs and to less blockage of the railway line due to acci-
dents. Labor savings are not a major source of benefits. The economic value-
added benefits are calculated by:
(a) estimating the number of trains that would use the line with and
without the improved technology;
(b) calculating the amount of freight that these additional trains
carry; and
(c) assigning a value-added per ton for the economic benefit of the
additional freight (less complementary investment costs).
The economic value-added per ton is based on the weighted average value-added
of the various commodities to be transported by rail in the future when new
capacity is added to the system, as computed by MOR's RIS team. The delay of
periodic maintenance investments due to longer track life results in a savings
in investment cost (see Working Paper No. 24).
4.10      In the case of the new track maintenance technology, there is an
additional cost to the economy due to the need for blocking the track for
machinery use for part of each day (called opening a maintenance window).
This cost is more than offset by the benefits described above.
4.11      The resulting NPVs for the investments in new maintenance technol-
ogy, discounted at 12 percent, are Y 188 million for track rehabilitation and
Y 330 million for track maintenance. The corresponding ERRU ware 16 percent
and 54 percent, respectively (Table 4.2).
E. Locomotive and Rolling Stock Parts Manufacture
4.12      The locomotives and rolling stock used by MOR are manufactured using
older technology which, in some cases, leads to high production costs or
shorter useful life of certain key parts, compared with the products of newer
technologies proposed for this subcomponent.  The economic evaluation for this
subcomponent assesses the application of this new technology in three MOR
programs with several elements: (a) DF4 diesel locomotive parts manufactur-
ing; (b) freight wagon parts manufacturing; and (c) coach body manufacturing.
4.13      The costs of the programs include both acquisition of the technology
and purchase and installation of the equipment needed for manufacturing the



- 40 -
parts in China. Manufacturing these parts in China is economically justified
because the costs of making them are significantly smaller than the corres-
ponding import prices. The quantifiable benefits of these three programs
include savings in locomotive and freight wagon investment, labor and matori-
*al cost savings in the manufacturing process for both wagons and coaches,
savings in periodic equipment maintenance coats and fuel cost savings in the
case of some locomotivo technology improvements (see Working Paper No. 25).
The savings in investment costs for locomotives and wagons are due to the
greater availability of the equipment fleets with less time in maintenance and
repair shops. Labor and materials coat savings relate to each type of tech-
nology proposed and depond on the specific shortcomings of each current tech-
nology. The maintenance coat savings are due to the fact that some parts
require extraordinarily short time periods between maintenance actions and the
newer technology can lengthen these periods significantly (see Working Paper
No. 25).
4.14      The resulting NPVs for the investments in new locomotive and rolling
stock technology, discounted at 12 percent, add up to Y 1.4 billion. The ERR.
vary from 21 percent to more than 50 percent depending on the technologies in
question (Table 4.3).
F. Telecommunications and TMIS
4.15      In this subcompon-nt, the investments in telecomunications and the
computerized ThIS act in concert to produce joint benefits in various forms.
Therefore, the two investments are treated as a combined investment for the
purpose of economic evaluation. There are many unquantifiable benefits of
these investments, but the quantifiable benefits are large. They include
labor cost savings and savings in investment costs in freight wagons (see
Working Paper No. 26). Labor cost savings have been quantified for both more
automation in tolecomunications and le  manual data collection and proces-
sing. The savings in wagon investment result from better flaet management
made possible by the combined investments. It has been demonstrated in sever-
al railroads around the world that the increased ability to manage the wagon
fleet has led to greator utilization of wagons with a consequent significant
reduction in the need to purchase new wagons. In the case of MOR, where a
tight management of wagons is already in place, the expected savings are less
(1 percent), but still significant considering the sizo of the fleet. The
1 percent reduction in freight wagon fleet needs translates into a reduction
of 3,500 wagons per year or Y 490 million in investment savings for the 8PYP
period (sea Working Paper No. 26).
4.16      The resulting NPV for investments in telecommunications and THIS
technology, discounted at 12 percent, is estimated at Y 1.6 billion over a 10-
year period. Th eRR is expected to be 49 percent for this combined invest-
ment (Table 4.4).
G. Pilot Container TransDort
4.17      The main quantifiable benefits of this pilot operation are for four
types of traffic (see Working Paper No. 27):



- 41 -
(a)  savings in operating cost for the traffic which is diverted from
road to rail (the economic cost of road operation per ton-km is 5 to
10 times that of rail);
(b)  time savings for the existing container traffic on the railway (11
days), due to increased frequency of service (from an unscheduled,
roughly weekly service to a scheduled daily service), faster transit
time, and less waiting time for wagon allocation;
(c)  reduction in damage for the existing break-bulk traffic on the rail-
way which is converted to container traffic; and
(d)  net value-added for new, induced container traffic on the railway
due to an increase in capacity.
4.18      The costs of this subcomponent comprise (a) investment costs for
containers, flatcars, various container handling equipment and container yard
renovation; and (b) operating costs for track and locomotive utilization, and
handling and maintenance of containers and flatcars. The resulting NPV for
investments in the pilot container transport subcomponent, discounted at
12 percent, is Y 187 million. The ERR is 21 percent (Table 4.5).
H. Overall Evaluation and Risks
4.19      Overall economic evaluation shows that the implementation of all
investment subcomponents is well justified; their overall ERR is 23 percent.
The capacity expansion component employs proven technology that has been
tested in China and therefore have low risk. All of the other components
involve technologies that have been applied in other countries, but there is
some risk that the application in China may develop problems when it is
adapted to Chinese conditions. The highest risk of implementation problems
exists for transfer of technology for locomotive and rolling stock parts manu-
facture, which represents lese than 2 percent of the total amount of the loan.
In this case, special measures will be taken to monitor implementation in
order to manage the risks effectively.
4.20      Sensitivity analyses were conducted on the effect of key economic
assumptions for each investment subcomponent, and in no case was the ERR
reduced below 12 percent. These analyses were used on (i) the increase of
costs by 20 percent, and (ii) the decrease of the main source of benefits by a
substantial fraction (15 to 50 percent) related to the level of uncertainty in
each source of benefits (Table 4.6). Risks related to implementation of the
investment subcomponents and to preparation and implementation of policy and
management initiatives are discussed in the Loan and Project Summary (p. ii).



- 42 -
V. ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL SELF-SUFFICIENCY
A. Introduction
5.1       Under the economic contract with the Government (para. 2.11), NOR is
responsible for funding all of its capital and operating expenses. MOR's
ability to carry out this responsibility is crucial to its success in ful-
filling its social and economic role in an increasingly market-oriented econ-
omy. In other words, it is essential for MOR to be financially self-
sufficient, that is, to (a) cover all its expenses, including debt-servicing
expenses, and (b) finance from self-generated earnings future capital invest-
ments that are not funded through borrowings. The purposes of this chapter
are: first, to assess the past financial performance of MOR's railway
transport operation 1/ (1987-91); and, second, to forecast its future finan-
cial performance (1993-97). The analysis focuses on the operation's capabil-
ity for financial self-sufficiency, through an analysis of several scenarios
related to the capital investment requirements, and how fast the implicit
subsidies on input prices and interest (para. 2.12) will be phased out.
B. Past Financial Performance of MOR's Railway TransDort Oneration
5.2       For the five years ending in 1991, the railway transport operation
was financially profitable, but it did not produce enough funds to finance the
necessary capital investments during 1987-91: that period saw railway bottle-
necks worsen, resulting in more suppressed transport demand (paras. 2.5-2.6).
The operation's operating revenues per converted ton-km (ctkm) went up 62 per-
cent, or 10.1 percent per year, due to a series of traffic/surcharge increases
(para. 3.9). But this increase was more than offset by the rise of 78 per-
cent, or 12.2 percent per year, in operating costs per ctkm, because of infla-
tion--the Consumer Price Index (CPI) went up 56 percent and the GDP deflator
40 percent--and also because of significant cuts in implicit subsidies.
Increases in tariffs and surcharges did not keep up with inflation and reduc-
tions in subsidies. Nor was MOR able to raise funds to boost the financing of
its capital investments (Tables T5.1 and 5.1-5.5).
C. Financial Prolections for Base Case
5.3       To achieve the goal of financial self-sufficiency for the railway
transport operation in the future, MOR plans to raise more operating revenues
through tariff and surcharge increases, and to increase the level of borrow-
ings, both domestic and foreign, within prudent limits. Also NOR plans to
control the operating costs through its staff incentive system as well as
cost-cutting and productivity improvement measures, a number of which are
related to technological modernization (paras. 3.19, 3.22-3.34).
5.4       The Base Case has been designed to approximate the current situation
of the railway transport operation with respect to its investment plan, plan
1/   This analysis does not purport to examine the whole of NOR's activities,
which comprise both railway transport and nonrailway transport activities
(para. 2.8).



- 43 -
Table T5.1: ACTUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES, 1986-91
(in Yuan million)
Average annual
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991  grovth rate (2)
Operatint Revenue              23.911 26.212 28.062 31.607 41,105 46.704          14
Operating Expenses             15.154 17.290 20.272 24.982 27,807 32.509          16
Of which: Working expenses     12,161  13,976  16,858 21,058 23,451 27,645        18
Depreciation          2,993  3,314  3,414  3,924  4,356  4,864         10
let Ooeratint Income       8.757  8.922  7.790  6.625  13.298  14.195        10
Nonoperating income /a            849    999    865    479    200       49       -43
Interest expense                    -    992    754  1,871  1,940  2,115         21
Business tax                    1,265  1,389  1,487  1,675  2,188  2,499          14
Lump-sum tax                        -      -       -      -  2,000  2,000
Net Income                 8.341  7.540  6.414  3.558  7,370  7.630          -1
Working ratio /b                  542    562    612    682    582    602
Operating ratio /c                672    662    722    792    682    70S
Unit operating revenue           2.12   2.13   2.14   2.36   3.14   3.43    622 increase
(fan/ctkm)                                                                     since 1986
Unit operating expenses          1.34   1.41   1.55   1.86   2.13   2.39    782 increase
(fen/ctkm)                                                                     since 1986
Revenues from railway manufacturing and construction companties.
Operating expenses, less depreciation, expressed as a percentage of operating revenue.
Operating expenses, expressed as a percentage of operating revenue.
for tariff and surcharge increases, and plan for phasing out the implicit
subsidies. The key assumptions for the Base Case financial projections are:
(a)  A capital investment program (including equipment replacements) of
Y 194 billion (in current prices) to accommodate a real GNP growth
rate of 6 percent per year [this corresponds to a combined freight
and passenger traffic (ctkm) growth rate of 4.5 percent per year);
(b)  Increases in base tariffs, averaging 8.2 percent per year in nominal
terms (2 percent in real terms), which reflects the expectation of
MOR's financial planners;
(c)  Increase in freight surcharges, from 1.2 fen/tkm in July 1992 (para.
3.9) to 2.2 fen/tkm in July 1993 (this 1993 increase has been agreed
in principle between MOR and the Government); and
(d)  Partial phasing out of implicit subsidies, amounting to about Y 6.5
billion during 1993-97, or 23 percent of total subsidies of about
Y 22.8 billion during the 1993-97 period.
5.5        In addition, two other key assumptions are adopted for the Base Case
(as well as for all other scenarios):  (i) a rate of inflation of 6 percent
per year; and (ii) a rate of increase in operating cost per ctkm of 7 percent
per year.  The second assumption represents a combined effect of the expected



- 44 -
inflation end the partial phasing out of subsidies, offset somewhat by the
expected rate of cost reduction.
5.6       The Base Case is intended to serve primarily as a reference for
comparison with other scenarios in which certain key assumptions differ. It
is not meant to represent the most likely scenario. This is because the cir-
cumstances under which 8FYP was originally prepared have since then changed
significantly. As a result, some of the assumptions made for the Bass Case
are likely to change, especially the assumptions about the size of railway
capital investment and how fast implicit subsidies are phased out. In partic-
ular, the GNP growth rate of 6 percent per year used in the Base Case repre-
sents a rate originally adopted by SPC in the late 1980s as the basis for pre-
paring infrastructure investments for 8FYP. In the light of stronger growth
prospects for the 1990s, the Government decided in mid-1992 to raise the eco-
nomic growth rate to 8 to 9 percent per year (paras. 2.14 and 3.6). Conse-
quently, the various infrastructure investment programs for the 1990a, includ-
ing the railway investment programs, will likely be revised upwards.
5.7       The resulting financial projections for the Base Case are sa-rized
in Tables T5.2 and T5.3 and detailed in Tables 5.1 and 5.2. As a result of
increases in traffic as well as in base tariffs and surcharges during 1993-97,
operating revenues are expected to double. Even more significant, net income
is expected to triple. This will allow the operation to cover all operating
costs and most capital investment costs, leaving only Y 16.1 billion to be
financed by new borrowings. With this relatively small amount of new borrow-
ings, total borrowings outstanding of Y 45.8 billion at end-1997 will be well
within their coiling of Y 65 billion currently allowed by the Government.
D. Financial Proiections for Alternative Scenarios
5.8       The finances of MOR's railwvay transport operation are particularly
affected by the possibility that: (i) all subsidies will be phased out by
1997; and (ii) the capital investments will be increased following adoption of
a higher planning economic growth rate. The impacts of these possible out-
comes are eaxmined through five alternative scenarios [2(a), 2(b), and 3(a)-
3(c)] as shown in Table T5.3.
5.9       The first two scenarios, 2(a) and 2(b) in Table T5.3, deal with the
financial effects of phasing out all subsidies over the 1993-97 period (total-
ing Y 22.8 billion). Scenario 2(a) assumes that the additional costs to be
borne by the operation (Y 16.3 billion) are covered solely by an increase in
borrowings and that the extra interest incurred is covered by a small addi-
tional increase in base tariffs (from 8.2 to 8.5 percent per year average
increase). Scenario 2(b) assumes that the additional costs are entirely cov-
ered by an increase in base tariffs (from 8.2 to 9.6 percent per year average
increase). The results of this analysis show relatively minor effects on the
operation's financial picture. The increase in borrowings would cause total
borrowings outstanding at *nd-1997 to reach the Y 65 billion ceiling in Sce-
nario 2(a) and 70 percent of the ceiling in Scenario 2(b).
5.10      The next three scenarios, 3(a)-3(c) in Table T5.3, explore the
financial impacts of, first, phasing out subsidies entirely by 1997, and,
second, expanding railway capital investment by Y 70 billion (in current



- 45 -
Table T5.2: BASE CASK FORECAST OF REVENUES AID KIPSESR, 1992-97
(in Yuan million)
Average annual
1992   1993   1994   1995    1996    1997  growth rate (Z)
Overatint Revenue             55.313  75.390 87.055 91.948  101.041  106.609        14
Operatina txpenses            36.923 41.265 45.998 51,050  56.444  62.364           11
Of which: Working expenss    31,513 35,380 39,524 43,929  48,610  53,747            11
Depreciation         5,350  5,885  6,474  7,121   7,834   8,617          10
Net Oieratint Income     18.390 34.125 41.057  40.898  44.597  44.245          19
Nonoparating Income La            49     49      49      49      49       49        -
Interest expense               3,596  4,190  5,800  5,100   5,100   5,100           7
Business tax                   2,657  3,090  3,352  3,565   3,999   4,244           10
Lump-sum tax                   2,000  2,000  2,000  2,000   2,000   2,000           -
Net Incom                10.186 24.894 29,954 30.282  3L3547  32.950           26
Working ratio /b                 582    472    452    482       482      502
Operating ratio /c               672    552    532    562       56Z      582
Unit operating revenues (feu/    3.87   5.07   5.64   5.74    6.08    6.17       59Z increase
ctkm, in current prices)                                                         since 1992
Unit operating expenses (fen/    2.58   2.77   2.98   3.19    3.39    3.62       40S increase
ctkm, in current prices)                                                         since 1992
Unit operating revenues (fen/    3.87   4.78   5.02   4.81    4.81    4.61    3.62 increase
etkm, in 1992 constant prices)                                                   since 1992
Unit operating expenses (fen/    2.58   2.61   2.65   2.67    2.68    2.70    0.92 increase
ctkm, in 1992 constant prices)                                                   since 1992
/   Revenues from railvay manufacturing and construction companies.
Operating expenses, less depreciation, expressed as a percentage of operating revenue.
Operating expenses, expressed as a percentage of operating revenue.
prices), to handle higher transport demand due to faster economic growth
(8 percent per year GNP growth versus 6 percent in the Baso Case). This
increase in capital investment has been determined using the RIS analysis
system (para. 3.6). Scenario 3(a) assumes that the additional costs are
entirely funded through additional borrowings. Scenario 3(c) assumes that the
additional costs are all covered by baee tariff end surcharge increases. Sce-
nario 3(b) assumes that the funding ie accomplished through a combination of
40 percent of borrowings and 60 percent of increases in base tariffs and sur-
charges.
5.11       The analysis of Scenario 3(a) shows that the required increase in
borrowings (Y 98.2 billion, including extra interest costs) is very large
relative to the currently planned level of new borrowings (Y 16.1 billion),
and this would cause total borrowings to exceed the current ceiling (Y 65
billion) by 1997. This level of increase in total borrowings would cause the
self-financing ratio 2/ to drop to a low 65 percent compared with 83 percent
2/ The self-financing ratio is defined as the ratio of self-generated funds
earmarked for capital investment financing in a given year to total capi-
tal investment in the following year.



- 46 -
T bb T63: KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND RESULTS UNDER DFFERENT SCENARIOS 11993497)
Averag annual        Total new       Averago
hcwas In ta-         boowIngs,   self-financing
liffe & sunmhargo..    1993-97         ratio L
Scnario                           Key assumptions                          1993-97 1%)         IY billion)    1993-97 1%)
I    Base Cas: MOR          a) Capt Investment Y 194 biion Inomndal)                   9.8              16.1            85
Current  ian          b Ba tarff Increass 8.2% p. (2.1 % ral)
(low invhetmnt)       c) 0.9 fenJtkm ave. surcharge Icrsa" &
d) SubsidIes partialy phased out by 1997
21a)  Low Investmnt with   a) Capital Investment Y 194 bIlion (nomInl)                10.0              32.4            86
all ubsidies phased   bi Base triff Increas 8.5% p.s. (2.4% real)
out and compensatad   c) 0.9 f1n/tkm cve. surcharge Increas lb
by mor borrowings    dl Subsidies completely phased out by 1997
2(b)  Low Inv etmnt with   a) Capitkal Investnt Y 194 blion (noninall                 10.7              16.1            86
all subsidies phased    b) Base triff Increa  9.6% pa. 13.4% real)
out and 100% com-    a) 0.9 fn/tkm ave. surcharge incroa  &
penad  by bse         di Subsidies completey phased out by 1997
tariff increa"se
34i)  Needed investment with a) Capital Investnt Y 264 bIlion Inominal)               10.8              98.2            a6
al subsidies phased   bl Bo  tariff increa  8.2% pa. 12.1 % real)
out with oast hi-     c) 1.2 fen/tkm ave. surcheg Inororeas &
ore"e 100% finaced  dl Subsidies oompltoly phased out by 1997
by mor borrowings
3(b)  Neeeod Investmnt with a) Capkal Investment Y 284 billion Inominal)              12.7              48.9            83
al subsdies phased    b) Bas tariff increa  9.6% p.s. 13.4% real
out with 40% of cost  c) 1.6 fenttkm ave. surchage Increase Ld
Increase financed     dl Subsidies compietely phasd out by 1997
by more borrowings
an 0D% by tariff/
surcharge Incre"s
34c)  Needed Investment with a) Captal Investment Y 264 billion (nominal)             14.0              16.1            89
aN subsidies phosed   b) Base trff increase 9.6% p.m. (3.4% real)
out with cost hI-     c) 1.9 fen/dum ave. surcharge Increase il
crease 100% financed  dl Subsidies completly phasd out by 1997
by tariff/surchwrg
increases
jt  Doefwd     Intermally generated cash used for capial inveetmnt dIvided by total capital Investment.
&   CouLid be achieved with a I fen/tkm  creae In July 1993.
L   Could be achieved with a 1 fenJtkm Inroas in July 1993 nd a 0.45 fen/ttm  creas In July 1994.
Li  Could be achieved with a 1 fenttkm Increse in July 1993 and a 0.90 fen/tkm Incres  In July 1994.
jt  Could be achieved with a I fentkm incres In July 1993 and a 1.45 fen/tkm nrease in July 1994.
in the Base Case. At any rate, this magnitude of new borrowings seems infea-
sible, as it is probably too large for capital markets to absorb in a short
period of time.
5.12            The analysis of Scenario 3(c) shows that, while tho borrowing ceil-
ing is respected, the required increase in the combined tariff and surcharge
level would be 93 percent in nominal terms (44 percent in real terms) over
current tariff levels. However, the size of the tariff increase is likely to
have an adverse impact on traffic and would hamper economic growth. Although
this scenario is conservative in keeping debt to a minimum, the net effect
would be inequitable since it would penalize current users for the benefit of
future users. The self-financing ratio would rise to a high 89 percent.



- 47 -
5.13      The combination of more borrowings and higher tariffs (Scenario 3
(b)] appears to be the most prudent response for MOR in coping vith additional
costs. This scenario results in new borrowings of Y 48.9 billion, base tar-
iffs increased nominally by 9.6 percent per year (3.4 percent per year in real
terms), and the surcharges increased by 1.45 fen per tkm in July 1994, all of
which appear to be feasible. The self-financing ratio of 83 percent in also
similar to the ratio of 85 percent for the Base Case. In view of the large
railway capital investment to be financed in the next five years, these ratios
are considered to represent a prudent level of self-financing for the opera-
tion. This scenario would, however, require an increase in the coiling on
borrowings toward the end of the decade.
5.14      The appropriate balance of borrowing and self-financing for capital
investment should be further examined and adjusted to reflect the operation's
changing financial situation in the coming years. Meanwhile, it seems conser-
vative for MOR to keep the operation's self-financing ratio at or above
80 percent.3/
5.15      A third possible factor that could financially affect the operation
is the rate of increase in operating costs per unit of traffic, which may turn
out to be higher than the rate of 7 percent per year assumed in the above
analysis. The probability of such an outcome is relatively low, however,
because the inflation rate for the economy as a whole has been sharply reduced
since 1990 (the Bank has adopted a 6 percent forecast). Still, it is possible
to adjust base tariffs and surcharges each year as inflation unfolds (provided
that it is moderate).
E. Conclusions
5.16      Given the current drive to speed up economic reforms, it is increas-
ingly likely that the implicit subsidies will be phased out at a faster rate
than previously, and that the level of railway investment will be increased to
cope with faster economic growth. The effect of additional capital investment
on the operation's finances will likely be much larger than the effect of
phasing out all subsidies. The additional investment requirements (estimated
at Y 70 billion for 1993-97) will require significant increases both in tariff
levels and in borrowings. The financial impact of phasing out all subsidies
over 1993-97 is significant (Y 22.8 billion over five years) but it can be
absorbed through an increase in base tariffs.
5.17      A high level of self-financing for the railway transport operation
appears to be a feasible goal. To support this goal, agreement was reached
with the Borrower during negotiations that MOR and other relevant rovernment
agencies will take all necessary steps to obtain a self-financing ratio of at
least 80 Percent in 1994 and thereafter for the railway transDort operation
rDara. 6.1(c)1.
3/   This level of self-financing ratio is substantially higher than the
25 percent level under the Fifth Railway Project because under Railways V
substantial capital grants from the Gover-ment were assumed. It is now
clear that these grants will not materialize.



- 48 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMtENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower on the
following:
(a)  Through NOR the Borrower vill ensure that (i) the various implemen-
tation activities listed in Annex 6 vill be completed by their cor-
responding target date.; and (ii) during the period of operation of
each investment subcomponent the corresponding performance indica-
tors defined in Annex 7 (if any) will equal or exceed their targets
(para. 3.53).
(b) Through NOR the Borrower will ensure that land acquisition and
resettlement of people affected by the electrification of the
Beijing-Zhengzhou and Chengdu-Kunming lines will be carried out
according to the plan agreed with the Bank (para. 3.56).
(c) Through NOR and other relevant government agencies the Borrower will
take all necessary actions, including but not limited to increasing
base tariffs and surcharges, cutting costs, and improving productiv-
ity, to generate in 1994 and thereafter funds equaling at least 80
percent of the following year's capital investments (para. 5.17).
(d)  Through NOR and other relevant government agencies, the Borrower
will: (i) by October 31, 1993, complete the tariff study and, on
the basis of results of the costing and other analyses as well as in
consultation with the Bank, prepare a set of recome ndations and
plans to rationalize railway tariffs with respect to their overall
level, structure, and the flexibility vith which NOR can adjust
them; and (ii) thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the
recommendations and plans taking into account the Bank's com-nto
(paras. 3.8-3.10).
(e) Through MOR and other relevant agencies, the Borrower will: (i) by
March 31, 1994, complete the accounting study according to the terms
of reference agreed with the Bank, and prepare in consultation with
the Bank a revised set of railway accounting standards; and
(ii) thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the new stan-
dards taking into account the Bank's comments (para. 3.12).
(f) Through NOR and other relevant agencies, the Borrower will: (i) by
June 30, 1995, complete the managment and economic contract study,
according to terms of reference to be agreed with the Bank and pre-
pare in consultation with the Bank a set of recomendations and
plans for improving MOR's internal management and its regulatory and
contractual relationship with the Government; and (ii) thereafter
take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations and plans
taking into account the Bank's coments (para. 3.13).
(g) Through MOR and other relevant agencies, the Borrower will: (i) by
October 31, 1993, complete the rail-based container transport study
according to the terms of reference agreod with the Bank and prepare



- 49 -
in consultation with the Bank a set of rocameendations and plans for
expanding and modernizing rail-based container traneport services;
and (ii) thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the recom-
mendations and plans taking into account the Bank's comments
(para. 3.36).
(h) Through NOR and othar relevant agencia, the Borrower vill: (i) by
October 31, 1993, complete Phase I of the cost-effactive technology
evaluation study according to the terms of reforence agraed with the
Bank and preparo in consultation with the Bank a set of recommenda-
tions and plans for upgrading railway technologies; and (ii) there-
after take appropriate steps to implement the reco mmendations and
plans taking into account the Bank's comme nta (para. 3.38).
(i) Through NOR and other relevant agencies, the Borrower will: (i) by
September 309 1994, complete the nvironmental protoction study
according to terms of reference to be agroed with the Bank and pre-
pare in consultation with the Bank a set of recomm ndations and
plan. for strengthening NOR's environmental protection capability
and addressing railway pollution problems; and (ii) thereafter take
appropriate steps to implment the reconmendations and plans taking
into account the Bank's comments (para. 3.39).
6.2       The approval of the Loan Agreement by the Borrower's State Council
would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
6.3       Subject to the above, the proposed project would be suitable for a
loan of $420 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan would be for
a term of 20 year., including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's stan-
dard variable interest rate.



- 50 -
CONTRIBUTIONS
This report has been prepared with contributions of )OR staff and many other people,
including the following:
*    Victor Alalouf (Costing)
*    Philip Anderson (CZTE Study, Assistance in Track Maintenance, Reviewers  NIPS, White
Cover)
*    Rozih Baba [Adm-nistrative Support)
*    Patricia Brereton-Miller (Reviewer:  Green Cover)
*    David Butcher [Resettlement Plan)
*    Peter Cook (Economic Evaluation, luvestment Planning, Performance & Monitoring
Indicators, Assistance in CZTZ Study)
*    Ananda Covindassemy (Peer Reviewer:  FZPS, White Cover)
*    Meredith Dearborn (Word Processing)
*    Hennie Deboeck (Financial Analyeis, Tariff Study, Accounting Study]
*    Pedro Geraldes (Peer Reviewer:  IEPS)
*    Daphne Glass (Word Processing)
*    Joseph Goldberg (Reviewer:  IEPS, Green Cover]
*    Ratim Hajj (Reviewer:  Green Cover]
*    William Harris [CZTZ Study)
*    Tariq Hassan (Legal Advice]
*    Ernesto Henriod (Procurement Advice)
*    Nikola Holcer (Telecommunicationsl
3    Mary Louise Hollowell (Editorial Support)
J Jae Holt (Poer Reviewer: Yellow Cover]
Omar Jung (Locomotives L Rolling Stock)
e    Emile M. Karman (Investment Costs & List of Goods   Assistance in Procurement)
e    Rebecca Kary (Editorial Support)
@    Albert Keidel (Peer Reviewer:  Yellow Cover)
Y To Kimura (Project Advisor, Reviewer:  IEPS, FIPS)
C    Yung Koo [maps)
*    Bhavani [rishnamurthi (Assistance in Economic Evaluation]
*    Jeffrey Leckaell (Maps)
C    Hernan Levy (Reviewer:  White Cover]
5    Udo Marggraf (Investment Costs L Procuremont, Capacity Expansion, Track Maintenance]
*    Robert MckAfee (THIS, Management and Economic Contract Study, Assistance in CETE Study)
*    Milo Melrose (Assistance in Locomotives L Rolling Stock)
5    Suzanne Morris (Disbursement Advice)
C    Alice Moy [Administrative Support]
A Anthony Ody (Peer Reviewer: UIPS, FEPS, White Cover, Yellow Cover)
*     laine Patterson (Reviewer:  Green Cover)
*    Moham_ed N. Resheed (Environmental Protection Study, Assistance in Tariff Study]
*    Selina Shum (Reviewer: Yellow Cover]
*    Anil Somani (Environmental Study)
*    Jonathan Stevens (Container Transport Performance Indicators, Inviromental Impacts
(other than resettlement))
*    Louis Thompson (Lead Advisor, Peer Reviewer   IEPS, PEPS, Yellow Cover)
*    Willard B. Thompson (Pilot Container Transport, Container Transport Study, Assistance
in Tariff Study)
*    Lee Travers (Resettlement Plan)
*    Adelma Trim (Word Processing)
*    Shunso Tsukada (Pilot Container Transport (with Economic Evaluation), Container
Transport Study, Management and Economic Contract Study, Mission Organization, Project
Processing)
*    R. Venkateawaran (Assistance in Accounting Study)
*    K. Viewanathan (Peer Reviewer:  FEPS, White Cover, Yellow Cover)
*    Cynthia Warren (Administrative Support)
*    Huikang Xu (Mission Liaison in China)
*    Zang-Ming Xu (Assistance in Economic Evaluation, Statistics, Graphics)



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Intensities and Road and Railway Network Density in Selected Countries
Freight Traffic Intensities in Selected Countries
CatmtryArea TonsOriginated/-a Ton-km/-a Average           Estimated GNP Tons/S1,000  Ton-km)$GNP
Country    (million sq km)    (millions)    (billions)    Distance (kmy-a($ billion)  of GNP
China                9.6             9,611        1,806          180.0         359.2        26.8           5.0
USSR                22.4             14,059       8,773          624.0       1,065.0        132            8.2
USA                  9.4             8,264        5,818          704.0       4,886.6         1.7           1.2
India                3.3               551         335           608.0         277.3         2.0           1.2
Brazil               8.5             1,081         453           419.0         311.9         3.5           1.5
Japan                0.4             6,150         508            82.6       2,577.1         2.4           0.2
I-a Includes rail, highy, inland waterway, pipdine, and air freight only.
Road and Railway Network Density in Selected Countries
Population       Area         Rail Length         Rail Density        Road Length         Road Density
Country    (million)    (million sq kn)    (1000 km)   (km=OOO pop) (kmntO   sq km)  (1000 km)  (kmfOOO pop) (km=t00 sq kn)
China              1,143               9.6         53.4           0.05          5.56      1,028.3          0.9        107.11
USSR                 307              22.4        146.7           0.48          6.55      1,174.8          3.8         52.45
USA                  246               9A         205.0           0.83         21.87      6,230.0         25.3        664.68
India                816               33          62.2           0.08         18.93      1,800.0          2.2        547.61
Brazil               144               8.5         31.2           0.22          3.66      1,675.0         11.6        196.78
Japan                123               0.4         43.0           0.35        113.71      1,110.0          9.0      2,936.46
Source:
C}INA       Statistical Yearbook of China 1991 (Date for 1990), pp 498-499
USSR:       A Study of the Soviet Bconcmy, Volume 2, (International Monetary Fund, The World Bank Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development, and European Bank for Reconstuction and Development), February 1991, p. 106-108. Data for 1988.
USA         National Transportation Statistics Annual Report, U.S. Department of Transportation, Research and Special Program Administration,
July 1990, p.103. Transportation in America, 1989,p. World Transport Data, International Road Transport Union, p180. Data for 1988
INDIA:      World Bank estimates based on data of Government of India, Economic Survey, 1988/89 and Perspective Planning for Transport
Development Roads: Estimate based on World Transport Data, op cit. and World Bank information. Road data for 1987-88
BRAZIL    World Bank Statistics 1985-1989, Intemational Road Federation, 1990, Section 5. World Transport Data, Intemational Road Transpoit
Union, p. 130. World Bank. Appraisal Report, Highways Management and Rehabilitation Report, 1989. Road Figures: 1987
JAPAN       World Road Statistics 1985-1989, Intemational Road Federation, 1990, Section 5.
World Transport Data, Intemational Road Transport Union, p. 214-216. World Bank data for 1988
Area & GNP The World Bank Development Report, pp. 178-179
Pik Tsb18xl&fn



- 52 -                                        Table 1.2
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT7
Freight Traffic by Mode
(billion ton-km)
Domestic    Pipe-        Civil                 Ocean
Rail      Road    waterway       line       aviation    Total      Shipping
1952            60.2        1.4       11.8          -       0.002        73.4        2.8
Modal split (%)       82.0        2.0        16.0          -          -       100.0          -
1977           456.9       25.1      102.1        38.7      0.076       622.9      174.1
Modal split (%)       73.4        4.0        16.4        6.2          -       100.0          -
1979           559.9       74.5       139.3       47.6      0.123       821.4      317.1
1980           571.7       76.4       152.1       49.1      0.141       849.4      353.2
1981           571.2       78.0       150.7       49.9      0.170       850.0      364.3
1982           612.0       94.9       170.8       50.1      0.198       928.0      376.9
1983           664.7      108.4      181.1        53.4      0.229     1,007.7      397.7
1984           724.8      153.6      196.1        57.2      0.311     1,132.0      437.4
1985           812.6      169.3      237.1        60.3      0.415     1,279.7      532.9
1986           876.5      211.8      270.0        61.2      0.481     1,419.9      594.8
1987           947.1      266.0      288.9        62.5      0.650     1,565.2      657.6
1988           987.8      322.0      310.4        65.0      0.730     1,686.0      696.6
1989         1,039.4      337.5      349.8        62.9      0.690     1,790.2      768.9
1990         1,062.2      335.8      345.1        62.7      0.820     1,806.6      814.1
1991         1,097.2      342.8      396.5        62.1      1.010     1,899.6      899.0
Modal split (%)       57.8        18.0       20.9        3.3         0.1      100.0          -
Growth rate % p.a.
1952 - 77        8.4       12.1        9.0          -        15.7         8.9       18.0
1983 - 84        9.0       41.7        8.3         7.1       35.8        12.3       10.0
1984 - 85       12.1       10.2       20.9         5.4       33.4        13.0       21.8
1985 - 86        7.9       25.1       13.9         1.5       15.9        11.0       11.6
1986 - 87        8.1       25.6        7.0         2.1       35.1        10.2       10.6
1987 - 88        4.3       21.0        7.5         4.0       12.3         7.7        5.9
1988 - 89        5.2        4.8       12.7        (3.2)      (5.5)        6.2       10.4
1989 - 90        2.2       (0.5)      (1.3)       (0.3)      18.8         0.9        5.9
1990 - 91        3.3        2.1       14.9        (1.0)      23.2         5.1       10.4
1982 - 91        6.7       15.3        9.8         2.4       19.8         8.3       10.1
* Exclude ocean-going transport.
Source: Statistical Yearbook ofChina-1992, Table 12-8, p513
FPibTabWL2wAa1&_



Table 1. 3
- 53-
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Passenger Traffic By Mode
(billion passenger-hIn)
civil
Rail      Road    Waterway   Aviation       Total
1952                        20.1        23          2.5      0.024       24.8
Modal split (%)               80.9        9.1        9.9         0.1      100.0
1977                       1023        44.8         9.7      1.834      158.7
Modal split (%)               64.5       28.2        6.1         1.2      100.0
1979                       121.6       603         11.4        3.5      196.8
1980                       1383        73.0        12.9        4.0      228.1
1981                       1473        83.9        13.8        5.0      250.0
1982                       157.5       96.4        14.5        6.0      274.3
1983                       177.7       110.6       15.4        5.9      3095
1984                       204.6      133.7        15.4        8.4      362.1
1985                       241.6       172.5       17.9       11.7      443.7
1986                       258.7      198.2        18.2       14.6      489.7
1987                       2843       219.0        19.6       18.7      541.6
1988                       326.0      252.8        20.4       21.4      620.7
1989                       303.7      266.2        18.8       18.7      607.5
1990                       2613       262.0        16.5       23.0      562.8
1991                       282.8      287.2        17.7       30.1      617.8
Modal split (%)               45.8       46.5        2.9         4.9      100.0
Growth rate % p.a.
1952 - 77                    6.7       12.7         5.7       18.9        7.7
1983 - 84                   15.2       20.9         0.0       41.6       17.0
1984 - 85                   18.1       29.0        16.1       40.1       22.5
1985 - 86                    7.1        14.9        1.9       25.1       10.4
1986 - 87                    9.9       10.5         7.6       27.8       10.6
1987 - 88                   14.7        15.4        4.1       14.7        14.6
1988 - 89                   (6.8)       53         (7.7)     (12.9)      (2.1)
1989 - 90                  (14.0)      (1.6)      (12.4)      23.1       (7.4)
1990 - 91                    8.2        9.6         73        30.9        9.8
1982 - 91                    6.7        12.9        23        19.7        9.4
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China- 1992, Tablel2-6, p. 511.
nk Tbwosmik1*kt,f



- 54 -                                        Table 1.4
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Transport Investment vs. Economic Output in China
(Y billion)
Annual                     GNP                       Transport
transport                  (current                  investment
Year                investment                  prices)                  as % of GNP
1966 -70 3FYP              15.0 /_1                 935.0                          1.6
1971 -75 4FYP              31.8 /-1                1,323.0                         2.4
1976 -80 5FYP              30.2 /_1                1,758.0                         1.7
1981 -85 6FYP              41.9                    3,130.5                         13
1986 -90 7FYP              89.1                    6,8753                          13
1980                        5.9                     447.0                          13
1981                        3.6                     4773                           0.8
1982                        5.2                     5193                           1.0
1983                        7.2                     580.9                          1.2
1984                       10.0                     696.2                          1.4
1985                       15.9                     856.8                          1.9
1986                       16.7                     969.6                          1.7
1987                       17.4                    1,130.1                         1.5
1988                       19.0                    1,406.8                         1.4
1989                       18.0                    1,5993                          1.1
1990                       18.0                    1,7695                          1.0
1991                       30.0                    1,985.5                         1.5
1980 -1991 average                                                                 13
/_1: Investment of FYPs includes Post and Telecommunications
(about 4% of total).
Source:      Statistical Yearbook of China- 1992, Table 5-22, p. 162, table2- 12, p. 31
Statistical Yearbook of China- 1991, Table 5-22, p. 160
Other data based on SAR of China Sixth Railway Project, table 1.05, p. 88
Was. Tabl 04.uk1Abfintz



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Investment in the Transport Sector (including Post and Telecommunication)
(Y billion)
Ist FYP 2nd FYP           3rd FYP 4th FYP  5th FYP                    6th FYP                                7th FYP
1953-67 1958-62 1963-65 1966-70 1971-75 1976-80         1981    1982    1983    1984   19851  1986   1987   1988   1989   19901  1991
Transport:
Raihvay           5.9    10.4      3.4    11.3    17.3         4.0      1.4     2.6      4.2      5.9    7.7    8.5    8.7   10.2    9.0   12.1   12.6
Highway            -        -        -        -       -         -       0.8     0.9      0.7      1.2    2.3    2.7    3.3    4.2    4.3    5.5       -
Waterway           -        -        -        -       -         -       1.3      1.5     1.9      2.6    3.7    3.7    3.9    3.2    3.6    4.8       -
Avivation          -        -        -        -       -         -       0.1      0.1     0.3      0.3    2.1    1.3    1.4    1.3    1.0    1.5       -
Pipeline           -        -        -                                  0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    0.1    0.5    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1       -
Subtotal           -        -        -        -       -         -       3.6      5.2     7.2    10.0   15.9   16.7   17.4   19.0   18.0   18.0   30.0
Post  Telecm.           -        -       -        -        -         -      0.4      0.5      0.6     0.9    1.2    1.3    1.6    1.8    2.3    2.7    3.1
Total             9.0    16.3       5.4    16.0    31.8       30.2      4.0      5.7     7.8    10.8   17.1   18.0   19.0   20.8   20.3   20.7   33.1
Total Capital
investment       58.8   120.6    42.2    97.6   176.4        234.2    44.3    55.6    59.4    74.3  107.4  117.6  134.3  152.6  155.2  170.4  211.6
Transport u % of
total investment/ 1   15.3%    13.5%    12.7%    16.4%    18.0%  12.9%    8.2%     9.4%    12.1%    13.4%  14.8%  14.2%  13.0%  12.5%  11.6%  10.6%  14.2%
/1: Investment of FYPs, before 1980, includes Post and Telecommunications (about 4% of total)
Source:     Statistical Yearbook of aCina- 1990, p.157, 167, 171.
Statistical Yearbook of China- 1991, Table 5-22, p.160
Statistical Yearbook of China- 1992, Table 5-22, p.162
PA= 1Tb1OS.uk1&h*x
I-



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY STATISTICS OF THE WORLD BANK- FINANCED TRANSPORT PROJECTS
PROJECT                      LANA/    BOARD ACTUAL CLOSING Is Amount USS   US$ Milion   STATUS
NAME                    (CREDITNo.)  DATE  EFFDC.  DATE  MiL (Bed cm SAR) (met of camiltiom)
DATE                   BDak   IDA   Bank  IDA
RAILWAYS                 RailwayI                                           2394    03/27/84   07/llY4   lV31/90            220.00            219.25               CLOSED
Raiwy II                                          2540    0S/1V85   1V22t85   06l134S             235.00             220.00              ONGOING
Railwayy                                    2678(1680)   04/15/16   01V13/87   063W93             160.00    70.00   160.00  70.00        ONGOING
Rawy IV                                           2968    0 "S288   03/27/89   IV31/93            200.00             200.00              ONGOING
Inner Mongolk Railwy                        3060(2014)   05/12/89   0103/90   1V3V56               70.00    80.00    70.00   80.00       ONGOING
RailwayV                                          3406    O9t1  010192   12/31196                330.00             33mO                ONGOING
Subtool                                                                                          1215.00   150.00  1199.25  150.00
IbWl L1n and Credit Amount in Million USS                                1365.00 1
POR1SAND                   hree Porn                                        2207    11/082   02Z0V283   0V3W88              124.00             67.97               CLOSED
SHUlPING                 Thnjin Port                                        2689    05/W6OW6   032W87   1231192            130.00             130.00             ONGOING
Hinugpu Port                                2877/(1845)    10%V7    1Y03188   1213193              63.00    25.00    63.00  25.00        ONGOING
Dalin Port                                  2907/(1875)   02/9/88   1WM/88   1V31/93               71.00    25.00    71.00   25.OD       ONGOING
Ninbo & Shaugimi Ports                            3006    1V13/88   0S/09/89   123193              76.40              76.40              ONGOING
Xlamen Port                                       3007    1211388   0V09/90   013/194              36.00              36.00              ONGOING
Ship Watc DEspon                                  2391    06/17/92              063W96                      15.00             15.00      ONGOING
Subtobl                                                                                           500.40    65.00   444.37  65.00
Totial Ln and Credit Amount in Million USS                                565.401
ROADS                    HIgiuay 1                                   2539/(1594)   05/14/85   1V04W85   0/391                42.60    30.00    29.60  30.00        ClOSED
Beijing-Tvnin-nggu Exprusway                281V(1792)   05/12/87   12087   1231J92                25.00   125.00    25.00  125.0D       ONGOING
Sichiun nHglay                              2951/(1917)   060/88   05/31/89   1V3194               75.00    5000    75.00  50.OD         ONGOING
Slanzi Highway                                    2952    0M=/88   05/31189   13194                50.0D              50.00              ONGOING
Higbw y VI-Jiuni Prov.                           (1964)   02/D7/89   05/3V89   12131195                     61.00            61.00       ONGOING
Slmagdg Provincal Hvay                      3037/(2125)   05t25/89   12111V89   06139              60.00    50.00    60.00  50.00        ONGOING
Zhejisg Provical Higway Project                   3471    05/19/92   09/0291   1V31/96            220.OO             220.00              ONGOING
G   ndong Provieclighway Project                 3530    11117/92              01N 9             240.00             240.00              ONGOING
Hamn Provimim Highway Project                     3531    11V17/92              (W30S8            120.00             120.00              ONGOING
Subtonl                                                                                           832.60   316.00   819.60 316.00
Totbl In  and Credit Amount in Million USS                               1148.601
MULTIMODAL               rmn  PrivL Iansport                         3316/(2226)   0W0/91   09/06/91   06196                100.00    53.60   100.00  53.60       ONGOING
Subtonl                                                                                           100.OD    53.60   100.00  53.60
Ten  lcn nd Credit Amount in MilLon USS                                    153.601
URBAN TRANSPORT Shanghi Metro Tmport                                      (2296)   09/11S1   09/10'91   06/3(Y9                       60.00            60.00      ONGOING
Subtoul                                                                                                     6000             60.00                             H
Tol Lon ad Credit Amount in Million USS                                    60.0D1
NOTALAMOUNT IN TRANSPORT PROJBCTS IN bMI USI    3292.60
:Tlbt. 1FOS~uk1*F)rD
PaI



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Freifht Traffic Caried by MOR
(b0Iion ton-kn)
1970  1975  1976  1977  1978   1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989    1990    1991 %('91)
Coal                96.00 110.20 101.10 124.20 148.10 164.70 176.70 183.20 199.76 213.15 233.55 259.59 277.00 285.74 299.51 316.18  344.64  341.42 31.2%
Timber              32.40  39.00  33.60  39.80  43.60  45.60  51.20  49.50  49.32  53.15  57.49  62.93  66.23  64.89  58.32  57.89   53.64   51.52  4.7%
Iron & Steel Products  26.30  34.20  30.30  35.50  49.50  52.70  46.80  42.40  44.59  49.43  56.83  64.81  74.94  75.61  69.86  72.62   80.59   80.62  7.4%
Construction Materials  16.20  25.40  26.10  30.40  34.90  34.10  33.30  30.40  39.68  41.97  42.11  45.69  46.55  48.32  49.49  52.02   44.17   43.66  4.0%
Petroleum           35.00  41.20  34.00  33.70  35.60  33.10  30.10  28.70  28.85  29.96  31.26  34.07  37.53  39.69  39.12  39.99   42.00   43.77  4.0%
Nonmetallk Ores      12.30  19.30  20.40  23.50  27.90  26.10  24.60  24.20  24.17  28.06  31.42  33.87  35.45  35.39  38.22  43.99   41.58   40.08  3.7%
Grain                9.90  12.50  12.40  14.20  12.00  16.90  22.10  24.70  24.08  26.32  28.36  42.59  42.41  57.33  55.54  53.61   56.55   66.86  6.1%
MetalLic Ores        14.80  17.50  15.50  17.00  23.40  20.60  18.80  16.40  16.96  18.73  21.33  25.82  28.39  29.58  32.11  38.11   44.28   42.95  3.9%
Fertilizer           5.90   6.30   5.40   6.70   9.20  10.90  15.70  17.90  18.69  18.06  19.38  16.55  16.10  19.98  22.58  25.81   26.81   32.21  2.9%
Cement               7.80   5.60   5.00   5.60   7.10   8.00   9.00   9.60  10.30  11.00  11.58  13.42  14.42  15.20  14.81  17.22   15.41   16.34  1.5%
Coke                 4.10   4.90   4.57   5.10   6.60   7.30   6.90   6.90   6.49   7.30   7.68   9.59  10.38  12.61  15.36  17.28   19.46   18.06  1.6%
Salt                 6.20   5.30   5.00   6.50   7.20   5.60   5.10   5.40   5.56   6.23   6.60   7.36   9.27  10.32  11.90  15.43   12.45   13.40  1.2%
Cotton                1.10   1.20   1.20   1.30   1.20   1.10   1.30   1.60   1.94   2.19   1.82   1.88   2.89   3.50   2.81   2.46    2.32    2.83  0.3%
Smceianeo           82.20 102.00  91.60 112.40 126.90 132.00 129.10 129.30 140.52 157.89 174.06 192.99 213.46 247.41 276.41 284.68  276.21  301.06 27.5%
Total       3520 424.60 386.17 455.90 533.20 558.70 570.70 570.20 610.91 663.44 723.47 811.16 875.02 945.57 966.02 1,0373  106010 1094.81 100.0%
Sonwes: Miabtay ofRailways
Swwcc:iR
n



CHINA
SDIXH RAILWAY PROJECT
MOR's Freight Tonnage Orginated
(million tal)
1970   1975   1976   1977   197S    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991 %(.91)
Coal                    254.4  316.2  295.7  347.4  402.4   413.2   414.9   412.0   438.5   460.2   487.1   518.6   531.1   543.4   564.8   6089    628.7   626.0 42.3%
Timber                   28.7   35.0   32.2   35.3   38.0    39.6    42.4    40.3    41.0    43.0    45.8    47.1    48.1    46.0    42.5    41.2    36.5    34.9  2.4%
Iron & Steel Products    30.6   41.8   3.9   42.6   58.9    63.9    60.8    55.2    58.8    6.4           67.6    74.5    85.2    84.9    79.4    79.4    83.0    83.1  5.6%
Congruction Materab      88.9  136.0  136.0  152.2  170.0   166.7   1585    139.5   162.8   161.3   158.7   158.4   149.8   147.3   149.0   146.7   124.8   119.7  .1%
Petroleum                37.0   62.2   58.0   56.2   61.2    59.3    55.6    49.8    50.4    53.8    56.1    58.           62.5    65.7    64.6    64.6    65.3    65.5  4.4%
NonmetlIic Ores          32.3   47.4   48.8   54.0   62.2    60.6    59.8    57.9    5A6         63.0    65.9    70.6    72.5    71.8    75.4    82.0    78.6    78.2  5.3%
Gain                     20.8   21.9   20.5   24.6   24.6    284       31.5    34.3    34.7    35.6    35.9    45.0    46.5    55.4    54.6    53.2    54.3    62.2  4.2%
Metallic Ores            40.7   51.8   46.4   49.9   64.9    61.8    59.0    53.4    56.5    60.3    64.3    67.2    70.0    72.6    74.2    79.9    86.7              U.7  6.0%
Fertijir                 10.0   10.9    9.6   12.0   16.6   18S       22.1    24.5    25.0    25.5    26.8    23.1    22.7    26.7    29.0    31.6    33.7    37.5  2.5%
Cement                   12.9   16.0   14.8   15.8   19.6    21.9    23.6    24.3    25.1    26.1    27.8    30.1    34.1    34.6    32.9    35.3    34.8    37.1  2.5%
Coke                      9.1   12.0   11.3   12.0   14.4    14.1    14.0    13.0    12.2    13.0    13.8    15.8    16.8    19.2    20.8    23.1    25.5    24.2  1.6%
sa.                       A8    8.9    A5   10.0   10.1        9.0      9.3      9.0      9.0     9.0      9.3      9.5    10.8    10.4    11.2    13.2    11.2    11.2  0.8%
Cottan                    1.5    1.4    1.4    1.5    1.5      1.4      1.6      1.8      2.1     2.0      1.6      1.5     2.2      2.7     1.8      1.4      1.2      1.4  0.1%
Miucelneous              90.0  105.9   99.   113.6  130.6   136.4   132.8   133.5   136.2   145.6   151.8   155.5   169.9   188.9   205.2   207.6   197.7   209.3 14.2%
Total          665.7  867.4  821.1  927.1 t.075.0  1.095.1  1,085.9  1.0485  1.110.5  1.160.7  1.212.2  1,275.2  1,322.2  1,369.5  1,405.6  1,46.0  1,462.1  1478.9 100.0%
Source: Minitry of Railways
FUm.Tsb2m.wk1*fsAck
F~
I.-



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Average Distance of Freight Traffic Carried !N MOR
(in km)
1970   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Coal                      377    349    342    358    368    399    426    445    456    463    479    501    522    526    530    519    548    545
Timber                   1,129  1,114  1,043   1,127   1,147  1,152   1,208  1,228   1,204  1,237   1,255  1,335   1,377   1,410   1,371   1,404   1469   1473
Iron & Steel Products     859    818    779    833    840    825    770    768    759    792    841    870    879    890    879    914    971    970
Construction Material     182    187    192    200    205    205    210    218    244    260    265    288    311    328    332    355    354    365
Petroleum                 946    662    586    600    582    558    541    576    572    557    557    586    620    604    605    619    643    668
Nonmetallic Ores          381    407    418    435    449    431    411    418    412    446    477    478    489    493    507    537    529    513
Grain                     476    571    605    577    488    595    702    720    695    739    791    946    912   1,034   1,016   1,008   1041   1076
Metallic Ores             364    338    334    341    361    333    319    307    300    310    332    384    406    408    433    477    510    484
Fertilizer                590    578    563    558    554    580    710    731    748    710    724    715    709    750    780    817    796    859
Cement                    605    350    338    354    362    365    381    395    411    422    417    446    423    440    450    488    443    442
Coke                      451    408    404    425    458    518    493    531    534    561    555    609    618    658    738    749    764    746
Salt                      705    596    588    650    713    622    548    600    619    691    710    773    859    991   1,065   1,173   1114   1201
Cotton                    733    857    857    867    800    786    813    889    946  1,101   1,175  1,250  1,331   1,323   1,542   1,755   1869   2030               Ln
Mismcllaneous             913    963    925    989    972    968    972    969  1,032  1,084   1,147  1,242  1,256  1,310  1,347   1,371   1397   1438
Total                     526    490    470    492    496    510    526    544    550    572    597    636    662    690    702    707    725    740
Source: Ministry of Railway and Statistical Yearbook of China- 1992, Table 12- 17, P519
File: Tab23.uwkl&fmVtx
lb



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
MOR's Passenter Traffic and Average Passenger Travel Distance
1975    1976     1977    1978    1979        1980     1981    1982    1983    1984    1985        1986    1987    1988       1989    1990
Passenae  (million)
Suburban           162.6   167.7    186.2   190.0    194.6    195.0    192.5   2087    212.5   202.4   168.3    154.7   152.1   163.9    157.1    135.9
Other              533.9   537.2    600.4   617.3   6615    717.5    749.9   780.2    836.9   920.3   940.8   9187    962.1  1052.1    9709    813.0
Total              6965    704.9    786.6   807.3   856.1    912.5   942.4   988.9   1049.4   1122.7  1109.1   1073.4  1114.1  1216.0   1128.0   948.9
PsUeaer-km (!dllbu
Subwban              3.6      3.8      4.3      4.4      4.6      4.6      4.6      5.0      5.2      5.1     4.1       3.8     3.8      4.7      4.4      3.9
Other               91.6    91.6      97.7   104.7   116.8    133.4    142.4   152.2   172.1    199.2   237.1    254.5   28Q1    321.1   299.0   257.1
Total               95.3    95.5    102.0   109.1    121.4    13.0    147.0   157.2   177.3   204.3   2413    25&3    284.0   325.7    303.4   261.0                  a
0%
Avece Distane (km)                                                                                                                                                    0
Suburban             22       23       23       23       24       24       24       24       24       25       24       25       25       28       28       29
Other               172      171      163      170      177      186      190      195      206      217      252      277      290      305      308      316
Weighted Avc.       137      135      130      135      142      151      156      159      169      182      218      241      255      268      269      275
Source: Ministry of Railways
Mls: Tab2D4.w*l&ftIVx
j



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Selected OcratiDnal Statistics of MOR. 1975-1991
1975   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    19U8    1989    1990    1991
A. Route LIth (kin, at year gLd)
Standard pup (1.435m)                 45,218 43,711   43,917   44.778   49,034   49,225   49,474   49,833   50,905   51,041   51,419   51,787   51,911   52.067   52,482   52,673   52,711
Narrow pp (.m and 0.6 )                  770    770     770      756      769     710      703     703      694      695     695      695     695      695      700     700      700
VWide puge                                 5      5       5        5        5       5        5       5        5        5       5        5       5        5        5       5        5
Total                                 45.992 46,446   47,382   48,618   49,808   49,940   50,181   50,541   51,604   51,741   52,119   52,487   52,611   52,767   53,187   53,378   53,415
Of wikh:
Daule trck                            7.161  7,285    7376    7,630    7,900    ,119    8,263    8,613   9,183    9,671    9.989   10,013   11,186   11,771   12,52S   13.024   13,30
Electified                             669    741    1,026    1,026    1,031    1,667    1,667    1,787    2,334    3,014    4,151    4,430   4,643    5,738    6,372   6,941    7,804
B. Staff (at yr end)
Empnoy- (0W)                           2,22  2300    2,345    2,542   2,565    2,615    2,710    2,763    2,844    3,053    3,124    3,200   3,247    3,293   3,30    3,381    3,420
C. Rdins Stock(averae of number at be,jnnina and end ofver)
Steam locomotives
Numberbin fieet                       7,824   na.      na.   7,828      na.   7,801      na.      na.      na.   7,551    7,674    7,542   7,381    7,130    6,687    6,279    5,986
(en. resar%)
Available, %                           na.   na.       na.     na.    93%        na.     na.      na.      na.     na.      na.     na.      na.      na.     na.    na.       na.
ni^d locamodm                                                                                                                                                                                   00
Numberin meet                         1,352   na.      na.   1,805    2.000   2,190      na.      na.     na.   3.102    3,511    4,017   4.400    4,836    5,256    5,680    6,111
Avaiabl, %                             na.   na.       Ra.     ns.    84%        na.     na.      na.    na.       na.      na.     na.      ns.      na.     na.      na.     na.
Elckomwdsmain line
Numberin fleet                         191    na.      na.      221     206      287     na.      na.     na.      484      587     707      748    1,197    1,430    1,623    1,809
Available, %                           na.   na.       na.     nA.    95%        na.     ns.      na.    nA.       na.      a.a.    na.    na.    nA.         na.      na.     n.
Paaemr ca                             13,715   na.      na.  14,844   15,D0    16,157      na.     na.      na.  19,600  20,872   22,138   23,474   24,917   26,304   27,261   27,612
pdtcn ('WD)
Bcz cm                                38.7   na.       na.    40.1    40.0    40A        nA.      na.     na.    49.       52.7    54A      55.5    58.0    62.2    66.7    703
Oanddu                                139.1   na.      na.   150.7   159.0   165.4       na.      na.     na.   178.7   185.7   197.7   209.9   219.2   226.8   233.0   231.1
Flat ea                                21.0   na.      na.    20.7    20.0    20.8       na.      na.      na.    19.1    18.8    18.5    17.8    18.2   I.5    18.8    19.3
Tak can                                31.1   na.      na.    33.0    33.0    33.5       na.    na.        na.    32.2    31.8    31A        32.1    32.5    33.3    33A       34.1
Rouionated                              2.5    na.     na.      2.4      2.4     2.5     n.e.     na.     na.       3.7     4.0      4.0     4.3      44       4.7     5.2      5.6
Othn                                    2.9   na.      a,.      3.1      3.9     3.8     na.      n.a.    na.       79      7.9      8A      8.6      8.0      7.5     7.8      9.6
Total ledt                            2353    na.      na.   250.1   258.3   266A        na.      na.     na.   291.2   300.9   314.    328.2   3403    353A    364.9   370.0
Aisilable, %                         94.8%    na.      na.     na.  97.1%        na.     nA.      na.     na.   9.0%   100.0%  100.0%        na.     na.      na.      na.     na.
Flue T&b2es.n                                                                                                                                                          - cuntinued
IP lb
mo
I.,



TakM. 235 Catinued
1975   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
D. Traffic
Poe" wafti
Pamsengers of CoureRailway (milhi)    697    705      787     807      856     913      942     989    1,049   1.123   1.109   1.074  1.114.0   1.216   1.28        949     942
PmeaWa of Local Railway (Milien)      8.17   7.60     8.09    7A62    7.78     958    10.61    10.34    10.98    10.88   11.97   12.21    10OA5    10.50    10.09  8.24    8.72
Pasenjor -bnof Cntreltailwaya (oiL.) 95.259 95,470  102.015  109.061  121,373  138,03   146,987  157.200  177.339  204.315  241251  258.311  284.000  325.731  303,437  261,00   262,484
Passngepr-kmn of Local waiways (m0)   150    238      258     241      244     279      293     284      312     323      363     360     306      301     304      253     321
A-Viuae orne                          137    135      130      135     142      151     156     159      169     182      218     241     255      268      247     275     300
(kin)
pralgh umufi
Not tam ofoeaternaiway(milhioa)      86735  821.2   927.1  1,074.9  1,09.O  1,065.8  1,048A4  1.11035  1,160.7  1,212    1.275.2  1,322.2   1.370    1.406    1,468    1.462    1,479
Not tama of Local Railway (mmiin)     2.21   1.95     2.60    2A63    2.40     2.70    2.84    2.48     2.71    2.86    3.19    3.42      3.70     4.40    4.69    4A47    5.00
Not km-kmof CamreRailway(Ial)         425    386      456     533      559     571      570     611      663     724     811   875.0    946        986    1.037   1.061    1.095
Not uai- kmof Local Railway(bil-)     0.95   0.8      1351    1.17    1.03     0.96    1im      1.08     1.21    1.29   1I41    1.47      1358     1.74    2.12    2.12    2.39
Average haul (kim)                    489    470      492     496      510     526      544     550      572     597      636     662     691      701     707      725     740
Caueted TM  (billio)                    520    482     558       42     6m       709     717      768     "41      928  1I05    1.133    1,230    1.12   1.341    1,321    1,377
(CIXM -PK + TKld
Tiafic densities (milliou)
PKM per rents kn                      KAn.   U.S.    u.n.    u..        ..    2.90     3.10    3.28     3.70    4.24    4.79    5.06      5.43    6.17    5.71    4.89    5.29
TKMper route ion                      9.40    na.    11.1.    M.A.   11.80    12.00    11.90    12.76    13.8    15.00   16.12   17.13    18.07    18.68    1930    19,86    20.50
CfCM per route km                    11.60   una.    unA.    un.    na.   14.90    15.00   16.05    17.52    19.24   20.91   22.19    23.52    24.85    25.21    24.75   25.79
Total locomotive-ha                  741.19 716.25   787.29  883.83   918.14     1.n.    una.    AA.    una. 1099.6  1183.01  1230.64  1278.00  1317.00  134L00  135.0  1385.00
(mi1lion lam)
-By type oftraiL
PAmaige                           10.85 180.8   185.22   203.75   215.24      unA.     .n.    u..  ..   266.45   290.15  301.73   310.00   324.00  324.26   323.40   334.01
Preiglit                          556.39 523.47   589.37   668.14  691.06     un.   u.         un.a ..   820.88  88.6   913.93   954.00   978.00  1002.11  1019.16  1033.74
- By typ of kactieu
steam                             609.46 578.95   621.99   676.55   689.70    na.    unA.    un.    una.  702.92  683A63  636.17   595.00  562.00   516.20   472.80  431.68
Diead                             121.31 126.97   152352  192.77   214400    u2.n.    unA.    una.    u..  348.83  433.16  50738   570.00   622.00  657.49   699.19  754.4
BEkrkj                             10.42  10.33    12.78    14.51    14.44    uns.    .na.    una.    un.   48.12   68.23   86.89   113.00   133.00   168.13   186.10  207.59
Mum kico- ba (ha" - ho)              520.02 49933   554.05   629.06   653.93     una.    una.     ns.    una.  784.14  84.81  881.91   922.00   956.00  98333   9983   1019.74
(nl-   ]mt)~e~rczu
steam                             425.77 397.56   430.9   472A45   482.49     u.n.    una.    un.       .na.  491.42  468391  434.21   389.00   361.00   324.40   296.8   266.9
Diced                              85.33  93.14   112.35  144.43   159.08      na.    una.      na.    una.  254.68   325.86  386A62   442.00   487.00   518.01   550.25  583.38
Bectric                             8.72   8.63    10.74    12.18    12.36    una.    unA.    unA.      .n.   38.04   54.04   71.15    91.00   108.00   136.91   151.84   169.40
Freight car-han (mul.)
Landed                              10.262  9.316   10.764   12,396   12,907    ns.    una.    11n.    uns.  20.115  22,779  18.390   19.493   20,004   20.779   21.053  21.690        ld~
Empty, iuclude cabooses              3,037  2,703   3.037    3.530    3,742    una.     na.    una.    u14.    una.    un.   5,061    6.216    5,354    5.358   5.940    5,915        OYQ a,
Total                               13,299 12,019   13.801   15.926  16.6.49   u.n.    .na.      nA.    una.    una.    aa.  23.451   25.709   25,358   26.137   26.99    27.605          F
Loaded freight carsr
forwarded per day                   51.789 48.341   54.23    62.234   62,789   61.298   58.620   61.300   63,149   64.856  67.228  68.911   70.00    70,400  12,919   72.369  72.911
Averagefreigbt car zruaround time (dSy3)   3.46   3.62  3.35    2.99    3.00     3.02    3.21    3.22     3.30       3       3       4        4       4        4       4      4.2           U'n
Avenge fireight car
tirnaround distance (km)              686    660      681     687      711     747      770     770      791     821     870      901     934      952     952      993    1.006
Fthe T`hb205.Nk1&fwtDM                                                                                                                                              - cgmtinued



Table 2.5 continued
1975   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    19U8    1989    1990    191
P. Perfomance Indicatam
Paoge  per p.e-r
tain                                  604    608      632     610      642     na.    Da.    na.    na.    na.           na.    na.    na.         na.    na.       na.
Fraigbt taffic:
Average tain sze
Loaded cars per tuin                  28     27      27       28      28      na.    na.       na.     na.    na.       na.      na.    na.    na.        na.     na.
Emptycanaper ain                       S      8       8        8      8.0     na.    na.       na.    na.      na.      na.    na.       na.    na.    na.        na.
Total car per Vain                    36     35      35       35      36      na.    na.       na.    na.    na.        na.    na.    na.    na.    na.           na.
Average  ain weight                                                                                                                                                 na.
Grow tons                          2,012  1,998   2.046    1,985   1,992    1.994    1,996    2,021   2,073   2,131   2,211    2,291   2,343   2,365   2,409   2,414   2,444
Net ton                             1,139  1,126   1,159    1.182   1200      n.a.    na.      na.    na.    na.        na.    na.    na.    na.          na.    na.
Avrag lod per oded
frighbt car (net toa)                 45     46      46       47      47    48.0       49       49      50       51      52       52      53      54       55      56       55
Ave  spe of freight
trains (bnh)                     *28.5    na.    na.         na.      29       29      29     28.0      28       27      28       29      28      28       29      29       30
Avap number of emplye
per opationalkn                         28     29      31       33      32      32       34      35    33.0    34.2        35      36       37      36      36       36      36
Yealy diatace covwed per 
avalale loco ('000): O
Diad, main line                      147    150     152      167     169      A.      na.      na.     na.    na.    na.        na.    na.    na.    na.
Bectic, main le                      158    160     155      160     165      Ia..    na.      na.     na.    na.    na.    na.    na.    na.             na.
Stem                                 122    119     122      127     129      na.    na.       na.    na.      na.      na.     na.      na.     na.    na.
Net ton-b per avilable
freigbt car (million)                   2      2        2     2.80       3     na.    na.       na.    na.    na.         na.     na.    na.    na.    na.
Soure: Mini"y of Ra ewa%   ept where marked (#), which are nmuc estimte
000
m
F    v x ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



- 64 -                                         Table 2.6
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Raiwav Asset Utilization
in Selected Countries
China       India       USA /a
Indicators
(1990)   (1989-90)    (1990)
Freight ton-km/route-km           (million)    19.88      7.16      18.23
Passenger-km/route-km             (million)    4.89       8.71       0.26
Freight ton-km/freight wagon owned   (million)    2.91    0.88       1.24 /b
Average net tons/wagon loaded      (tons)     54.9        19.7 /c    80.4
Average freight wagon tumaround time  (days)   4.0        11.3       N.A.
Average freight wagon tumaround dist.  (km)    993       1,428 Ic    1967
810 Id
Average haul                       (km)        725        741        1188
Average number of staff per route-km         63.34       26.47       2.61
Traffic units per route kilometer  (million)   24.75 /e    7.32 /e   18.49 /e
Traffic units per employee         (000)       391 /e     277 /e   7.072 /e
/j Figures converted into nietc system                   UM/EMK - 22 Sep. 1992
h2 Includes wagons owned by wagon compaies and shippers
/c Broad Gauge
LA Mete Gauge
/l 1 traffic unit = I passenger-km or I ton-knm
Sources: China: Ministry of Railways
India: Indian Railways Yearbook 1989-90
USA: AAR, Rairoads Facts, 1991 edition



SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Investment Costs and Loan Summary (US$ million)
1992             ~~1993                   1994                     1995                    199                     1997                    TA
Loos oc      TW L        o Foreign  TOW  LanmLLc  Fuson  TTW Loan  LacdiFo     oWW   O   FouWn  TOWlml  LocaLU  F~c~  TOW  Low   Local F~S~  TOW  Lamn  Loci F~  TOW  Lamn
bT~AKriw ui             3.0   0.6   3.6   ... 15.2   3.4  18.6  ---  45.0  5368  96.8  26.4  52 3  90.2 142.5  40.8  22.2  41.2  63.4  32.0---------137.7 189.   327.0  99.1
Phya~~w*igaAclaa  0.1   0.0   0.2   ..0.8   0.2   0.9  ---   2.3   2.7  4.9   1.3   2.6   4.5   7.1   2.0  1.1   2.1   32   1.6---------6.9   9.5   16.3   5.0
Placw8VUan...s ...              .----0.3   0.1   0.4   ...   2.3   2.7   50   1.3   3.9   6.8  10.8   3.1   2.4   4.5   7.0   3.5-9.0---14.1   23.1   7.9
3.1   0.7   3.8   - - - 18. -3 37 -19.9  --   4-9.6  59.2 106.7  29.0  58.9 101.5 160.4  45.9- 25.6  47.8  73.6  37.1.--------153.6 212.6  366.4 112.0
kwaatnwt coWs           2.3   1.9   4.1   ---  23.7  37.1  60.8   ---  33.3  64 1  97.4  20.6  35 9  65.2 101.2  29.8  23.4  42.1  65.5  19.3   9.7  24 3  34.0   9.5 126.4 234.6  363.0  79.2
Pt,yaidoooWlgancla      0.1   0.1   0.2   ---   1.2   1.9   3.0   ---   1.7   3.2   49   1.0   1.8   3.3   5.1  1.5   1.2  2.1   3.3   1.0   05    1.2   1.7   0.5   6.4  11.7   18.1   40
Pricaca*.m&wcws         ..a..--.           --0.5   0.7   1.2  ---   1.7   3.2   49l  1.0   2.7   4.9   7.6  2.2   2.6  4.6   7.2   2.1   1.5   3.7   5.1  '1.4   6.9  17.1   26.0   6.8
2.4   2.0   4.4  =.   25.4  39.W6  68.0  -... 367 70.510O7.2- 2-2.7 40.4 7-3.4 11-3.9 3-3.5  27.2 4868  75.9  22.4  11.7  29.2  40.8  11.4 1437 263.5  407.2  900
Ir.M~mmwaa- --                    --- - ----------14.3  16.8  31.1  31.0   6.6   7.8  14.4  14.3.----------------20.9  24.5   45.5  45.3 
Pvicecortinganca        ..-    .--         -         --------0.7   0.8  1.5   1.5   0.5   0.6   1.0   1.0-----------------1.2   1-4    2.5  -25                                                        U1
-----------------150  17.6  32.6  32.5   7.1   8.3  15.4  15.3-----------------22.1  25.9   48.0  4768 
jL and mow mad
IwiNdtarjs-. ....                              ..0.6   0.3   0.9   0.3   0.3   3.0  3.2   3.0   2.2  17.2  19.4  17.2-----------------3.1  20.5   23.6  20.5
P?iyaimIWoitralrid~s.--------0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   ---   0.1  0.1   0.1-------------------------0.1   0.1    0.3   0.1
Price                   ......a.....0.0   0.0   0.0   ---   0.0   0.1  0.2   0.1   02   12   1.4   1.2-----........0.2  1I.4    1.6   1.4
-----      --    --0.7   0.4   1.1   0.4   0.3   3.2  3.5   3.2   2.4  184  20.8  18.4-----------------3.4  22.0   25.4  22.0
ITImwmadTI
l,was*maqt 05om..a..--s--14.5  28.6  43.1  17.9  39.9  56.0  96.0  45.2  26.0  47.1  73.2  31.3  10.7  23.3  34.1  16.9---------91.2 155.1  246.4 111.3
Physcal owrmgenciaa---------0.7   1.0   1.6   0.4   1.6   2.7  4.3   1.8   1.3   24   3.7  ---   05   1.2   1.7 ----                                  - ------4.1   7.2   11.3   2.1
Price coeitirgmes       ..       ..    ..-0. 3   0,6   0.6   03   20   28   48   2.2   2.0   36   5.5  2.3   1.2   26   3.7   1.8---------5.4   9.5   14.9   6.6
-.     .       .     .   155  301  45.6  18 6  43 5  61.5 105.1  49.2  29.3  53. 1  82.3  33.6  12.5  27.1  39.5  186---------100.8 171.8  272.5 120.0
Immslnwt Gods           0.3   0.1   0.4  ---  23.9   5.2  29.1   0.0   3.5  13.2  16.6  16.3   1.3   03   1.6   0.0   1.5   1.5   3.0   1.3---------30.4  20.2   507  17.7
phyJc.lcowtrdin rafcia  0.0   0.0   0.0  -- -   1.0   0.2   1.2  -- -  0.0   0.4  0.4  0.4   0.1   0.0   0.1   - --  0.1   0.0   0.1 ----             - ------1.2   068    1.8  0.4
Proa iktw'.c*A -         -     -      --. ..    ..0.5   0.1   0.6  -- -  0.2   0.6  0.8  0.8   0.1   0.0   0.1   - --  0.2   0.2   0.3   0.1---------0.9   0.9    1.8   0.9
0.3   0.1   0.4   ..   WS2.    -5.5  30.8  0.0  3.7 1T4.2 17.9- 17.5  1.5  -0.3  -1.8  -0.0   1.7   1.7   3.4   1.4---------32.5  21.7   54.3  19.
Poirl aNW tacim, amoam
k1eatmart codls        --...    .          ....2.4   2.4   2.4   0.5   4.2  4.8   4.2   - --  2.1   2.1   2.1-----------------0.5   8.8    9.3   8.8
ptw ial   -o  m .w n    . .   . .   . .   . .   . .   . .   . .    . .   . .   . .   . .   . .   ..        .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .      .     .    -       -
PnosixxiVwigr..i..c..                          .. .-0.0~  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   02   0.2  ---   0.2   02   02 -0.0---                        -    -   ----           -        0.4    0.4   0.4
..    ..     ....     ..2.5   25   2.5   0~5  4.4  5.0   44   ---   2.3   2.3   23-----------------0.5   9.2                                            9.7  92
lInvssfftmea40"         55   2.6   8.1   ---  77.9  77.0 154.9  20 6 138 9 211.1 3.47.9 146.7 124.4 230.0 354.4 135 6  57 9 108.1 15660  69.5   9.7  24.3  34.0   9.5 412.3 653.0 1.065.3 381.8         *
Phy-Icacontingeocb      03   01    04   ..3.7   32   6.9   0.4   5.6   9.1  146   4.6   5.81 101   15 9   35   29   5.3   82   26   0.5   1.2   1.7   05  18.7  29.1   478  11.6   09 Or'
Pncoo rtw,la,...c..a......15   1.5   30   0 4   6.8S  10.5  17.3   72   94  17.3  26.6  10 0   64  11 9  18.2   7.5   15   3.7   5.1   1.4  25.5  44.8   70.3  26.6
5-8  -27   8-5   ---  831  817 164-9  215 149 3  W 236 379-9 15_85 1396 257-4 39l69 141   71i 125-3 i1925  796a  117-  292T  408- 114 45.T27-0 1183.5 420.0
Sourva: MiOWy of RAIAbSaa and MWtam aedOWas (Jan1-3O Prb)                                                                                                                       uvJEWo - Fb. 18. i1013



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Investment Costs and Loan Summary (Yuan million)
19199931994                                                                    1996                                      1997 1T87
L.N Fmipj  ToW  Loon  LocW Pwaru   Tao  Loan  LOW  Faop    TOM  Lout  La   FmWp    TOMU  Lon  Loca FaIgi   TcO  Lam   Leco Fmauig  TaW  Low~   LaCW  FCOr                         TO     Lam,
hus1,g,t           16. 1   3.8  198   ... -   3.5  2D.0 103.4   - -- 247.2  314.3  561.5 151.7 287.1  627.1  S6Al.1 234.5 1219 24068  362.7 163.6.756- ----                            .7  1,106.  16861.7  570.0
Pl -jiaAosnr,Icias   0.8   0 2    1 0   ---   4.2   1.0   5.2   ---  12A4   15.7   281    7.6  14.4    264    40.7  III    6.1  12 0    18.1   9 2------- -- 376    56.3   93.1   26.6
Pviio                    ...u... m.....2.6   06    3 2   ---  237    30.1    53,9   7 6  47.3   0668    134A   17.7  290O  57.2   8662  20 2---                        -     ----1025   174.6  277.3   45.5
16.9   39   2108    ---  902   21.6  MA1   -- - 283.3  360.2-  6434 166.9 -346.7   6402-  9669 263.9 157-0 310.1  467.1 213.2..... .. ..896.0  1,336.0 2Z2320   644.0
kw-inbnm4 caf           12.3  11.0  23.2   --- 130 1 216.6 346.7   --- 183.0  374.5   567.5 1165  197.2   3811   5783  171.3 1266  24668  374.3 111.2  53.5 141.9 195.4  54.4  704,6  1.370.8 2075.4  456.4
Phyicaicoriicasgmcim     0 6   0.5   1.2   --    6.5  10.6  17.3   ---   9.1    18.    27.9   5-9   99    191    28 9   8.6   6.4  12.3   i8.7   5 6   27    7.1   9,8   2.7   36.2   66.5  103.8   22.6
Prfc.o -   g             --          --     -- - -- 40   6.7  10.6   ---  17.5   35.9    53 5   5,9  32.5   62.8    962   129  30 5  564    889   12 2   16.8  U.?  615    8.2   10141  206 4   308.9   39.3
12-9  i11.5  2474   -. 140.6 234.1 374-8   *.. 2007   4,29.1   6388 T30.4 239.6   462.9   70o2 5 1928 T665  31 il64   481.I9 1i29.0-  730o 193.7 266.7 -653   841i2  I 64178 2489.0    57.5
coaMitma--                  -       -      -    - ---- --78.5   93.2   171.7 178.2  36.4   43.2    79.5  823.-                          -       .       .        ........114.8   136.4   251.3  260.4
Phwicsl coseig--i-n--                       - -   --d-a- -            --s-             ..   . .   ..       .      . .    . .      .I  ..     . .   ..        .      . . . .     .     --     . .     --       .
Pric.ctsitlvcoio         ....s.              .....            .   .. .. 7.2         8.5   15.7   8 5   57        6.8    12 5   59-----             .. ...... .... 12.9   15.3   26.2   14.4
------ --     --     --   --     --     --86.7  101.8  1874  186.7  42.1    50,0   92.0  66.2.12--             .       .        .... ..          .    77   151.7   279.4  274.8          a
Infbwsa  Cosa..                      ..    ..     ..3 2    1.8   5.0   IS8   1.4    17.0   18 5  17.1  12.1    96.5   110.6  96.8.-- --            ........ .... 168   117.3  134.1   117.7                                   0
Physical-6 ng            ..          ..     ..     ..0.6   0.4   1.0   0.4   ---    05      0.5   0.5.--         ..      ...... ..                 .. ...... ....                          06      0.8    1.5    GA
Pfnmc.cangw4mcs         ..     .01..            ..      0.1   0 2   ---   0.1      1.6    1.7   0.8   1.9    16 4    17.3   7.1.----              ---- ---- ----                          2.1    17.1   193       7.9
.....       ..     .. 4.0   2.2   6,2    2 2    1.6   19.1   20.7  18.4  14 0   114 0   126 0 1059.-         -       .        .       .... .. .. 19.6   135.3  154.8  126.5
ba scodi             -          --  -.--86.0  167.1 252.1  102.8 233.3   327.5  560.8 259.8  1521   2 755   427.6  M80.   6381 137.4  201.1  97.0.--------534.2   9074  1,441.6  6398
Physcalowogenna  ..   ..     ..    .  38I   58    9.5   2,0   9.5   15.7   25.2  10.2   7.6    138    214   ---   3.2   6.9   10.1.------ -- -- 24.1   42.0   66.1    12.2
Paic.com*Wrm'............2.6   5.1   7.7   2.0  222    31.3   53.5  12,9  25.0    46 4    70 4  130   161  32.6   47.8  10.2.---                                                  -      -- 65.0   114.4  1794    380
... .. ....91.4  177.8 289.3 11068  266.0  374.5  639 5 32.92   14.7  33-4.6   5193  193 1  82.1  176.9  259.0 107.2.---- ----623.3  1,063.8 1,6671   690.0
k,wsbut Cosa             1.7   0~3   2.0   --- 130.9  30.5 161.3   0.2  19 1    76,9   96 0  938   7.2           1.6     8,8   02    8.1   8.9   17.0   7.3.---- ----167.0  118.   265.1  101.6
PhiscaIooda geflci       0.1   ---   01    ---   5.5   0.9   6 4    ---   0.1       23      2.5   2.3   0.4      0.1     0.4   ---   0.4   01      0.5.-----                    ----       6.5     3.4    9.9      23
Mice  9      ..       ...     ..   ... 4 0    0.9   5.0   ---   1.6    7.2     9 0   46    1.2      0 3     1.4   ---   1,9   2.0      4 0   0.8.8 -- ----                       .9   10.5   19.4     5.4
II8  03    2.1   I. 4.    2312.             .    10      8.    1074007   8.7          19    10.7   0.2  10.   110       2.    8.6.                                     F32-.0   144 10.
PoIv ui and bh.m 
111wAsumt m              ----              ----..    -13 9   139   13.9   3.0   24.4   27.4  244   ---   12.3    12.3  12-.3...                              .        ....      .. ..      3.0   50.6   53.6   506
Nrcoodu------ --------- 0 3    0,3   0.3   0.1                                      1.2    1.3   1.2   ---    09         0.9   0.9.----            .. ...... ....                          0.1     2.3    25       23
..... ......14 1   14.1  141    3.1    25 6    28.7  25.6   ---   13 2    132  132.----                                   .. .. .... .. ..                        3.1    529    56.0   52.9
hwusbnsutccg6           30 0   15.0  45.1 -- 432.6 449.8 8624  118.7 765 5  1,227.8  1,993.4 843.5 6920  1.339 3 2031,3 7794  3224  632.8  956.2 369.4  535 141.9 195.4  54.4 2,296.1 3.8087 6.102.8    19655
PhysW   -i~gnWv--        1.5   0.7   2 3   --20,6  188   39.4   2.4  31.1    52.9    841  26.5  32.2   59.3    91.4  20,3  16A   31.3   474   14.8   2.7   7.1   98    2.7   104.2  170.1  274.3   866.
Pfro oovellcll's.-- -- ----13 4   13 7  27 1    2.2  72 6   115.9   188.6  41 6 1136   218.3   331.8  57.5  76 6  150.2  2268  433   16.8  447   61.5   8.2  293.0   542 8   835.8  1528
31.5  16.8  4i7.3-  ..  -486 482-2 9489  12-34 869.3 1,.396.7 2,-266 0 9VI116 837.8  ,6 1-68  2,464 6 8572 415 1 814.3 1,229.4 4574   73.0 193.7 266.7  853 2.6913 4.519 6 7,2129i 2.415.0   'U  I-3
Uauc  Ms 4I9  ft R p wwdU U    smilrom (Jim.1-3 pi1fu)                                                                                                                                                Mew?iC Feb. 16. 196    co



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Investment Costs of CaDacity ExDansion Subcomponent
Beiiina - Zhenazhou Line
(USS 000)
1992                   1993                   1994                     1996                     199                     Tota
Local Forign   TOW    Loca Foregn   Toa    Locl Frign         Tot    Local  Fooign      Toe    Local Forgn   Total    Local  Folgu        TotW
Preparabon                2.952    648  3,600  5.078   1,115  6.192   5,392   1.164    6,576  5.015    1.101    6,116    ---    ---               18.437    4,047   22.484
Roacbed                                             43      23     67      65      35       99     58        31       89  - -- -                     166       8       255
Bridges and culverts         -- ...                  2    3    5    2    2                   4    2           2        4   ...                .    8            7    13
Track                       . ..                   163    184    348    143    161         304     70        79      149  -         -- -     -       376      424      801
Communicaions               ..0 ...    ..            .    ...    .    3,050  7,253   10,303   1,012    2,406    3.418.           ..   4.062    9.659   13.721
Signalig    -          --                     -    -       -            4.918  16.844   21.862  13,167   45,359   58,526  7.767 26.757 34,524   25.852   89.060  114.913
Elcric power   --                               -     --                  430  2.558    2,988    357    2,126    2,483    257   1.527   1.784    1.044    6.211    7.255
Elcrcaoion               --                    -     -      -10,548 21.328   31.875  17,785   35,962   53,746  5.482  11.065  16,568   33.815   68.375  102,189
Bulings & Equipment-                  -    -     4,514    952   5.466  10,039  2.118   12.157  6,289    1.327    7,616  4.429    935  5,364   25.272    5,332   30,604
Other Constuction-                   -     -      5.408   1.141   6.549   9.585   2,022   11.807  5.885    1,242    7,126  3.053    644  3.697   23.931    5,049   28.980
Specal Equipment                        ... -.-           -    -          869    183    1,0S3  2,668        562    3,228  1.230    260   1,490    4.788    1.005    5.771
Total                      2.92    go   36    152          " 318 ts.627  450.42 53.787   98    52.       90.197  142.5  22,219 4126  e3427  13727   189.258  32e98
Physical contingencies      148      32    180    760    171    931   2,252   2,689    4,941   2.615    4.510    7.125  1.111   2,080   3,171    6.886    9.463   16.349
Onasein  Estmde            3 9       Q    .8   1596    3.58   19.558 47 294 5GA47  103-770 5_4.21   94,707  149,2  23,30  412eg   8 0   144.813  196,721  343 334
Price contingencies
% per year                                        3.80    3.80           1.90    1.90            2.70     2.70             3.40   3.40
% compounded                                      1.88    1.88          4.78    4.78             7.19     7.19            10.46   10.46            6.19     7.10     6.71
amount                                            301      68    368   2,261   2,700    4.962  3.949    6,810   10.758  2.440  4.526   6,986    8,951   14.104   23,055
Total Proiec Cost          UNi      M     UIQ   16270   UR 97 119920  4s.sss 5@Z    10 732 58.JZ    10L51i  160387 2I            47.794 A 3      153564  212825  36,359
Souce: Mlnby d Raq  wnd niealonsUmat.s (Jan-i 43 proe)                                                                                                UWEMK - Feb. 15. 1993
li-I
I.@
_6 w0



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PRUJLCT
Investment Costs of CAciaoty Expansion Subcomponent
Chenadu - Kunmina Line
(US$ 000)
U62                 Z193                   1994                  1996                   low                   I?7                   TOW
LoCd Forin    Total  Local Fon    Total  Local FoWn    Toal  Local Foagn    Toa   Local Foein   Total  Local FoWn   Totl   Local Foen    TOW
Pipitllon                1.477    324  1,802  7,614  1,671  9,286  7,598  1,668   9,266  9.160  2,011  11,171  4.857  1,066  5.923           ...---  ...  30,707   6,741  37,447
Ro.dbd                     ---   ...    ...  1,207    650  1.858  1,513    815   2,327  1,665    897   2,562  1.233    664  1,6897    358    193    550   5,976   3,218   9,194
BudWg  mId c*f             ...    ...    --.   272    295    567    316    342        659    620    671   1,291  1,040  1,127  2.166    183    198    380   2,431   2,633   5.064
Tunnels..    ...    ---  3,147    787  3,934  3,592    898   4,490  4,271  1.068   5,339  2,487    622  3,109    563    141    704  14.061   3,515  17,576
Track                      ---   --      ...  1.131   1,275  2.406    885    998   1,882  1,402  1,582   2,984  1,678  1,892  3,570    639    720  1,359   5,735   6,467  12.201
C     l    lons.           ...    ...   .     2,977  7,080 10,057  4,352 10.349  14.701  3.486  8.288  11,774  2.393  5,689  8,062  1.387  3,298  4,686  14,595  34,705  49.300
Sffli, ...--    ...   927  2,203  3.130  2,748  6,534   9.262  2,633  6,262   8,895    802  1.907  2,709    768  1,826  2,594   7,878  18,732  26.609
Ele c powr                ...    -       ...   435  1,498  1,933    936  3,223   4,159  1,118   4,065   5,271    811  2,792  3.603    416  1.433  1,849   3.783  13,031  16.814
E        lcbk              ...    ..    .       632  2,177  2,809  5.348 18,423  23,771  5,443 18,751  24,194  4,449 15,327 19.776  2,191  7.540  9,741  18.063  62,226  80.291
Ir     f equi             ...    ..     . -6- .    8,584  8,584        --  8,600   8,600    - - -  9,322   9.322    - -.  3,540  3.540    ... 2.385  2,385       . -  32.432  32,432       00
b uleous                  775  1,567  2,342  5,361  10.840 16,201  6,051 12,236  18,287  6,073 12,279  18,352  3,674  7.429 11,103  3,236  6,544  9,780  25,170  50,896  76.066
IQIII                   ;2S2  1i89    43Ai           37Z062        33339 64                      6216  lOllS5 234                                    34 028 1282399          BA
PhygiCal cOKtgen         113     95    207  1,185  1,853  3,038  1,667  3,204   4,871  1,797  3,261   5,058  1,171  2,103  3,274    487  1,214  1,701   6,420  11,730  18,150
Onk  Esdmate                    iu6 196   4     31 938-915      M  350 05          102 296 37   6A 761        24 5   4         1             11  35279 134 t  24L327 381146
% p   m                                       3.80   3.80           1.90   1.90            2.70   2.70            3.40   340            3.60   360
S 80nmed                                      1.88    1.68          4.78   4.78            7.19   7.19           104.8   10.48         1433  1433             6.60    69       6683
uitount                                        468    732  1.201   1,674  3,217   4,891  2.713  4.924   7,637  2,572  4,619  7,191  1.465  3,653  5,118   8,893  17.1ff  26,039
Total BMWca   4351 25357 39.647 6S004 36679 7050  107A88 40450 73.400 11385  27167 48777    M   11893 29154                     L  1.2   3473 407-185
Sow8: MW'y   d Ra_eys and naiw adwrhm (Joii1 -93 pini)                                                                                                            UMEMK - Fub. 15, 1993



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Investment Costs of Track Maintenance Subcomoonent
(US$ 000)
1994                      1995                      Total
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total
Heavy-duty track
maintenance machines    12,688   14,880   27,589    6,624    7,769   14,393   19,313   22,649   41,962
Track uprading
technology                 96      113      209      ---     ---      ---       96      113      209
Monioring and
inspection equipment    1,517    1,779    3,296          - --         .       1,517    1,779    3,296
Total                    14.301   16.772   31.073   fiA24    7.789            2034 IQ.928   24,541   45.488
Physical contingencies     ---      ---      ---      ---      -.--     ---
Baseline Estimate        14.301   16.772   31.073    iA24    7.8    14.393   202B   24.91   45.468
Price contingencies:
% per year               1.90     1.90              2.70    2.70
% compounded             4.78     4.78              7.19     7.19             5.54     5.54     5.54
amount                    684      802    1,486     476      559    1,035    1,160    1,361    2,521
Total Proiect Cost       14.985   17.574   32Z55      i 71    LSZf   15.428   2208B   25.902   47.487
Soure: MinWty of RM wid miean etdmnue (JeF-I -93 prlo)                                UMVEMK - Feb. 15,1993 
P-0
0r
IA
La



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Investment Costs of Locomotive and Rolling Stock SubcomDonent
(USS 000)
1993                     1994                     1995                    Total
Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign   Total
Locomofive
Gavwnors                                     ---     ---      --       ---    ---      ---     ---   2,347   2,347      ---   2,347   2,347
Governor manufacturing machines              ---     ---      ---      94     730     824       78     522     600      172   1,252    1,424
Turbo supercharger manufact. machines                        9--      ---     ---      ---    9g    730        829       99     730      829
Electric motor insulation test instruments   ---     ---      ---      14     261     274      ---     ---      ---      14     261      274
Press for connecting rod manufacture                          ...o-------     -                657   4,381    5,038     657   4,381    5,038
Injection pump/nozzle manufact. machines                     ---       26     261     287       63     417     480       89     68      767
Freiaht waaons
Air brake manufacturing machines                     ---      ---    130   1,304    1,434      308   2,034    2,342     438   3,338    3,776
Wheelset overhaul and manufacture line       - -- .           ---     ---     ---      ---    901   6,102    7,003      901   6,102    7,003
Passenoer coaches
Spot welder                                  ---     ---      ---     ---     ---      ---     104     678     782      104     68       782
Toal                                                                   2f    2L=      ZJ1     2219   17.210   19420    247A   1976    22.2
Physical contingencies                        ---     ---      ---     ---     ---      ---     ---      -       ---      -- -  ---
Baseline Estimate                             ---    ---  - --                2=      2J      22    1.219  19L420   2AZ4  19.7    Z2.2
Technoloav transfer
Freight car air brake design and manufact.   ---      -  - --         ---    417      417      ---     ---      ---     ---    417      417
Soluble silicate sand disperser             564      313     897      ---     ---      ---     ---    ---       ---    584      313     897
Tol                                                             z      ---     417      41      ---     ---      ---             m     ti3
Physical contingencies                        117      63     179      ---      83      83      ---     ---      ---     117     146     263
Baseline Estimate                                                      - s--- 10  501-  - --  -- -                       701      1     1 i5
Total                                         11        L    to78      2f    30       320M   2210  171210  19420   2.17   20Q1   23R816
Price continoencies:
% per year                                  3.80    3.80             1.90    1.90             2.70    2.70
% compounded                                1.88    1.88             4.78    4.78             7.19    7.19             7.47    7.04    7.06
amount                                        13       7      20       13     146      159     159   1,237    1,396     185   1,391    1,575
114 B          i83    1.Z  21   32m Q   2.411 2I        18.447  MU   1   2,M    22o        =M I
Soure: Mny of R_ye and miseslm         (Jan-1-93 prs)                                                                     UM/EMK - Feb. 15,1993



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Investment Costs of Telecommunications and TMIS SubcomDonent
(US$ 000)
1993                1994                  1995                 1996                    Total
Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign    Total  Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign    Total
Telecommunications
Teephone switching network   1,169  4,984  6,154  4,122 17.572  21,694  4.631 19.744 24,375  3,072 13,095 16.166  12.994  55,396  68,390
Transmission network     11,348 11,348 22,696 26,602 26,602  53,203 20,224 20,224 40,448  7,253  7,253 14,505  65,426  65,426 130,852
Data teecommunication netw.    132  2,507  2,639   421  7,996   8,417   323  6,143  6,467    139  2,646  2,785   1,015  19,292  20,307
Conference telephone network   385   470    855  1,305  1,595   2,900   845  1,033  1,877   282   344   626   2.816   3,442   6,258
Total                     13034 19310 32.343 32449 53 765      .2   26.023 47143  73.166 10.745 23.337 34.082  82.251 143.555 225.806
Physical contngencies       652    965  1,617  1,622  2,688   4,311  1,301  2,357  3,658    537  1,167  1,704   4,113   7,178  11,290
BasedneEsimde             13686 20.275 33.961 34.072 5645   90525 27.324 490  782  11.282 24 504 35.786  86.364 150.733 237.097           -4
Trarsorot Manaoemen
Information Svstm
Mainframe computel          - - -  9,283  9,283    - --   782    782    ---   ---   ---   ---   ---   ---    - --  10,065  10,065
Yard computem               ---   ---   ---  5,966  1,491   7,457    ---   ---   ---   ---   ---   ---   5,966   1,491   7,457
Terminals                 1,512    ---  1,512  1,512    ---   1,512    ---   ---   ---   ---   ---   ---  3,025          ---   3,025
I2T                        1.512  9.283 10.795  7.478                 -                  -   -    -  -  -    8.991  15   20,547
Physical contingencies       ---    ---   ---   ---   -          ---   ---   ---   ---    ---   ---   ---    ---    ---    ---
BaseineEstimate     1        .512 9.283 16.795  78  27                  ---   ---   ---    ----   R                    11556  20.547
Total Baseline Estmate    15.198 29.558 44.756 41.550 58.727 100.277 27.324 49.500 76.825 11.282 24.504 35.786  95.355 162.289 257.644
Price contingencies:
% per year                3.80   3.80          1.90   1.90           2.70   2.70          3.40   3.40
% compounded              1.88   1.88          4.78   4.78           7.19   7.19         10.46  10.46          6.27    6.29    6.29
amount                    286    556    842  1,987  2,808   4,795  1,965  3,559  5,524  1,180  2,563  3,743   5,418   9,487  14,904
TotProiecCt               15.484 30114 ,45598 143537 6153  105.072 29289 53060 82349 12462 27.067 39.529 1                    272.548
Source: WhAry d R_ilw, mod mhalon sedman (Jwn-i 43 pric)                                                             UMEMK - Feb. 15,1593



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Investment Costs of Pilot Container Transport Subcomponent
(US$ 000)
1992                    1993                    1994                     1995                    1996                    Tah
LoeiW Foregn    TOM    Local Foelgn    Tolml   Loi   Fmip    TaW    Loeel Freign    Tol   Locl Frigp    Tob    Lae   Feign    Tol
Cmtnes                               -         -       -  16.117   2,920  21.037      -..   1.1s   1,158      ---      -..                     ... --   16.117   4.078  22.195
Criurm Ii wOW                        --.              ...  3.913   1.927   5,841   2.164   1.470   4.454      .   .-       ... -  .              .66. ...    ,97   3.       1024
Trc, & chd_                          ... - --    ..           ...    ...    ...        ---  2,53   2-03         ..                 ...    ...      .. -    203   2.03
Tr     rm                            -. ---                   ---                         ...    ...      ... 6.6    6.675  --  -       -. .            .6675   6.675 
Rbber   d gor*y cram                              ...                          - -  --   1.043   1.043        ---   -..       - . --   .    1.043   1.043      ...   2.066   2.066
vdmo  urihr*  sy.brm                  ..-            --        -       42      42      --- 219        219    .--       42      42      ---    219      219     ---    522      522
RuuvaIin Shenyan  Tem*n              313      55     368   1.817    321   2.138       ... .. .                         ... ... ...        -t     -.2.129              376   2.506
Rmfoian ZhwgD u  Twn*                _       - --     . ..                            496      e6    584   1.312      232   1.544   1.400    262   1.742   326        561   3.870
313     5s 36     8  23.647   5,211  29.056   3,400  13.155  16.636   1.312      273   1.565   1.480   1.524   3,004  30.432  20,218  50.651
Ply Olc    lirernuis                  16       3       I8    997      162   1.1S9      25    3M       421      6o      12      77      74      13      67   1.177    ss6   1.762
_ faskls Entm-                       326      58     366  24,844   5.373  30,217   3,505  13,551  17.057   1.378      285   1.663   1,564   1.537   3.091  31.69  20,604  52.413
Prke nr_wAo:
%per yw                                                     3.60    3.8             1.90    1.90            2.70    2.70             3.40    3.40
% coma   pd                                                 1.88    1.68            4.78    4.76             7.19    7.19           10.46   10.46            2.64    4.47    3.49
uImInO                                                       460     101     5s9     lea    648    616        99      20    120    163       161     323    897    930   1.627
TdSPrajeidctc                        326      S8     380  2S,311   5,474  30,780   3,673  14,199  17.872   1,477      305   1,782   1,717   1,817    3,414  325    21734  54240
Sme: kdyoei          v and mision e       (J.-1-63 pcs)                                                                                                           UEMK - Fe  15, I
I



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Policy and Technical Assistance Components (US$ 000)
1993                 1994                 1995                  Total
Local Foreign   Totl  Local Foreign   Totd  Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Total
Studies
Radwav Manaaement and Economic Contract
Economnic contract enhancement                    50     50    ---   250    250             100    100           400    400
Tramport productivty improvement                 100    100    ---   200    200             100    100           400    400
Fmancialresourcemobilization                      75     75    ---   250    250              75     75       -   400    400
Divestiture/restructuring                 ---   100    100    ---   200    200    ---   100    100    ---   400    400
Human resourcesdevelopment                ---    75      75    ---   250    250    ---    75        75           400    400
Housing sytem improvement                 ---    75      75    ---   250    250    ---    75        75           400    400
---   475    475    ---  1.400  1,400    - --    M      525    - - - 2A40   2.40
R.l.S.                                     ---    50      50                                                       50---  ---  ---    ---  so  50
Accounting                                 ---   200    200             100    100    ---   ---     -       - - -   300    300                 L
Terns                                      ---    50    50    ---    ---    ---   ---    ...   ---    ---    50            50
Conhirt rOnport                            ---    50      50    ---    ---    ---   ---    ..        -              so     50
CETE                                       ---   150    150    ---    50        50        ---        ---    --    200    200
Ern*onwt                                   ---    75      75    ---    75       75    ---   ---    ---    ---   150    150
Cadwhelm chnology                          ---           100 -1--           ---    ---    - --       ---           100    100
au,otl        1.150  1.15       ---j        j UN    UN_ _ in
Eabt hfor the l w cen_                       ---   300    300    ---   700    700    - - -   500    500    ..   1,500  1,500
TehlAId Inc           a Nl Tranln
Plotconiirwsubcomponwnt                    ---   150    150    ---   100    100    ---   100    100    ---   350    350
T1 _comwurlslons                           ---   ---    ---   522    600  1,122    ---   ---    ---   522   600  1.122
TMIS                                       ---   813    813    ---  1.219  1,219    ---  1.016  1,016    ---  3,048  3,048
ubtotbl    ---   2      0 2 Z  liiU    2M1           ---  11JA6  iii!    =    an8  4.20
total    --- 2.413  2L       22   4244  4 7A       --- 2JA41  241        =    UZN8  L920
Price contngencie:
%peryesr                                  3.80   3.80           1.90   1.90          2.70   2.70
% compounded                              1.88   1.88           4.78   4.78          7.19   7.19           4.78   4.24   4.28
wnount                                     ---    45      45     25    203    228    ---   154    154       25    402    427
Totl projectcost    ---  2.45   245     54   4.44   4.894    ---  92.    2.        54   L2Q0  8.747
5Uw f_Ys _IR~ of    d  lu NW     (Ju-1-43 pi Ul-- F. t' M



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1992          1993           1994          19916         1996           1997          19
1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
BIiiina - Zhenazhou line              PjO CUR t    M  U E                              I
Chgadu - Kunmina line                 PRQC- E         MT
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Track maintenanc.                     PRoCUR8U:ftT                       I
D -E -iV;  ft:   1  -E8 * ;;-f        t iE
Locomotives and rollinastock          P: R O       AdR  ; IM T
Technoloav Transter                    P R                                              I.0; .. 'tC  w.
_~~~~~~ IP                                 I
Td .communications                     PRO4 UORE         TE
P~~~~~~ ~ ~~ It  10  N   :8 TR   A #A  IE   41 -^T t: "        :.:;  St:  ti   0.;
I .a ST A V I
Pilot containor                        PtO 6 UR i:M S E"N--T   -
I I TALV1O
pdicv and technical assistbnce               .1HAi                        t |
Saamv: dy g R~  &ad  n                                                                                              UM.EMI  - Fb 15, 19G03
04



75 -                                         Table 3.9
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Cumulative Disbursement Schedule /a
China
ERD Fia                  Esimated Disbursements          Trnsport
Year and             Quarter  Cumulve                 Disbunement
Quartr                  USS miion-          %          Profile /b
FY 94 Dec. 31, 1993           10.0       10.0       2.4            6.0
Mar. 31, 1994           10.0       20.0      4.8            8.5
Jun. 30, 1994           12.0       32.0       7.6           11.0
FY95 Sep. 30, 1994            13.0       45.0      10.7           13.5
Dec. 31, 1994           15.0       60.0      14.3          16.0
Mar. 31, 1995           18.0       78.0     18.6           20.0
Jun. 30, 1995           22.0      100.0      23.8          24.0
FY 96 Sep. 30, 1995           25.0      125.0      29.8           27.5
Dec. 31, 1995           35.0      160.0     38.1           31.0
Mar. 31, 1996           30.0      190.0     45.2           44.0
Jun. 30, 1996           30.0      220.0      52.4           57.0
FY 97 Sep. 30, 1996           30.0      250.0      59.5           60.5
Dec. 31, 1996           30.0      280.0     68.7           64.0
Mar. 31, 1997           30.0      310.0     73.8           66.5
Jun. 30, 1997           25.0      335.0      79.8          69.0
FY 98 Sep. 30, 1997           25.0      380.0      85.7           79.5
Dec. 31, 1997          23.0       383.0     91.2           90.0
Mar. 31, 1998           15.0      398.0     94.8           92.5
Jun. 30, 1998           10.0      408.0     97.1           95.0
FY9 9 Sep. 30, 1998            6.0      414.0      98.6           97.0
Dec. 31, 1998            3.0      417.0     99.3           98.5
Mar. 31, 1999           2.0       419.0     99.8           99.5
Jun. 30, 1999            1.0      420.0    100.0          100.0
Aasuming Board Date in March 1993; Ckaiing Date: Jun. 30, 1999
h Worid Bank: China, Transportation (June 1991 edition)
450
30D
4so~- tE  mit                         I0 1 i 
I IYU I i    Y96 I  IYINI  I  IYO I      CVN I IY9S I        CYiNS/ !!       I 
2ore        aio-            m                                 U       F.iI 1--
200 t|t1tl    m,_
sro -                                              4-- -,-E-+l-+  --     i-. -l'.! o,._
_t I cr6  tw3  cr 1i704 I   c 1M9  CrYS9 I cr17   CY IWO I cY IM_
Soure: Mktry dof Raoy i  iY8d   n seko                         VLIEMJK - Feb.16. 13



- 76                                           Table 3. 10
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Total Proiect
List of Goods to be Financed by the Proposed Loan (US$ 000)
1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      Total
CaDacitv ExDansion
Beiiina-Zhenazhou Une
Total costs                     ---    26,387    40,775    31,967        ---    99,129
Physical condngencies           - --     1,319     2,039     1,598       - - -    4,956
Price contingencies             --.      1,325     3,079     3,511       ---      7,914
---    29.031    45.893    37.076        ---   112.000
Chenadu-Kunmina iine
Total costs                     - - -    20,608    29,788    19,347     9,465    79,208
Physical conbingencies          ---      1,030     1,489       967       473      3,960
Price conbngencies              ---      1,035     2,249     2,125      1,424     6,832
- - -    22.673    33.526    22.439    11.362    90,000
Track Maintenance
Total costs                     ---    30,985    14,305        ---       ---    45,290
Physical contingencies          ---       ---       ---        -         --    -    - -
Price conbingencies             ---      1,482     1,029       ---       ---      2,510
---    32.46      15.334       ---       ---    47.800
Loco and Rollina Stock
Total costs                     313     2,973     17,180       - - -     - - -    20,465
Physical contingencies           63        83       -.-        - --      ---        146
Price conbngencies                7       146      1,235                 ---      1,389
383    32"O       18,415      - --       - --    22.000
Telecommunications and TMIS
Total costs                  17,882    45,186    29,832    16,074        ---    108,973
Physical contngencies           354      1,772     1,492       804       - - -    4,421
Price contingencies             343     2,245      2,252     1,765       ---      6,606
18.579    49.203    33,575    18.642       ---   t20000
Pilot Container TransDort
Total costs                      42    16,318         42     1,262        - -    17,663
Physical contngencies           ---       402       - --       ---       - - -      402
Price contingencies               1       799         3        132       ---        935
43    17519         45      1,394       ---    19,000
Policy and Techn. Assistance
Total costs                   2,413      4,244     2,141       ---       ---      8,798
Physical contngencies           ---                 -- -       ---         -        - -
Price contingencies              45       203       154        ---       ---       402
2fi4      4.447     22S95       ---       ---      9.200
Total Proiect
Total costs                  20,649   146,700   134,062    68,650       9,465   379,526
Physical contingencies          417     4,606      5,020     3,369       473    13,886
Price contngencies              397     7,235    10,001      7,533      1,424    26,588
21.463   158.541   149.083    79.552    11,362   420.000
Sorce: Minrs*ry of Rav" andW muson esimaIts, Jan-1-93 prnc.               UM/EMK- Feb. 10, 1993



Table 3.11
Pago 1
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Capacity Expansion Subcomponent
Beiiing - Zhenazhou Line
List of Goods to be Financed by the Proposed Loan (US$ 000)
Unit     1994           1995           1996          Total
Unit  Price Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount
Communications
SPC (13.310 lines)                             4,788           ---            ---           4,788
PCM signalling conv. equip.  set   9.2    10      92    10      92    24    220    44        403
Instruments for SPC        set    20.3     5    101            --             -        5     101
Optical terminal (34Mb/s)    set    23.1   2      46     2      48      2      46      6     139
Optical switchover (34Mb/s)  set   3.0     1       3     1       3            ---      2       6
Multiplex equip. (34Mb/s)    set   6.4     1       6     1       6      2      13      4      25
Group conn. equip. (218134 M  set    14.4  1      14      1     14                     2      29
Multiplex equipment (8Mb/s)  set   5.7     2      11     2      11      8      46    12       69
Line terminal (2 Mb/s, remote) set  0.9    2       2     2       2      6       5    10        9
Line terminal (2 Mb/s)     set     0.7    10       7    10       7    24       17    44       32
Drop/insert equipment (2 Mb/s set    11.9  5      59     5      59    10    119    20        237
Multiplex equipment (2Mb/s)  set   4.8     2      10     2      10      8      38    12       57
Line repeator box         set      0.8     3       2     3       2      8       a    14        11
Line repeator board       set      0.3    20       5    20       5    44       11    84       21
Data board                 set     0.6    20      11    20      11    54       31    94       53
Monitoring subframe        set     3.2     5      16     5      16    10       32    20       65
Subscriber board (6 channel) set   1.0     2       2     2       2      7       7    11        11
Multiplex equipment frame    set   2.9    11      32    11      32    11       32    33       95
6 point data transm. with D/l  set  2.2    10     22    10      22    38       84    58       128
6 point data transm. equip.   set  2.5     1       2      3       7    10      25    14        34
12 point data transm. equip.  set  4.8           ---     1       5      1       5      2       10
18 point data transm. equip.  set  7.5           ---     1       7      1       7      2       15
72 point data transm. equip.  set    26.0                       ---     1      26      1      26
5.234           _61            770          6.365
Miscellaneous
Survey equipment                                                              854            854
Construction equip.       set    64.6      1      65      1     65      1      65      3      194
Catenary overhaul car      set   993.3           ---           ---      1    993       1      993
Catenary junction insp. car   set   745.0        ---           ---      2   1,490      2    1,490
Inspect. and meas. equip.    set  248.3          ---           ---      2    497       2     497
West station service equip.                      497          2,732                         3,228
561          2.798         3.899           7.256
Sub-Total                                      26.387         40.775         31.967         99.129
Physical Contingencies                         1,319          2.039         1,598           4,956
Baseline Estimate                              27.706         42.814         33.566        104.086
Price contingencies:
% per year                                    1.90           2.70           3.40
% compounded                                  4.78           7.19          10.46           7.60
amount                                       1,325          3,079          3,511          7,914
Total                                          29.031         45L893          070          112.000
Source: Ministry of RasiwNys and mission imrnatas, Jan-1-93 pric.s.               UMIEMK- Fcb 10. 1993



Table 3.11
- 78 -                                           Page 2
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Capacity Expansion SubcomPonent
Beiiina - Zhenazhou Line
List of Goods to be Financed  by the Progosed  Loan  (US$ 000)
Unit     1994           1995           1996          Total
Unit  Price Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount
Electrificatfon
Traction transf. 50,000 kVA   set   327.8  6   1,967     6   1,967                    12    3,934
Traction transf. 40,000 kVA   set  278.1   3    834      3    834             ---      6    1,669
Traction transf. 31,500 kVA   set   248.3  1    248      1    248              ---     2     497
Bal. tract transf, 40,000 kVA   set   367.5  4   1,470   4   1,470            ---      8   2.940
Sal. tract transf, 31,500 kVA   set   327.8  2    656    2    656             ---      4    1,311
Capacitor compens. device   set    74.5    12    894    20   1,490            ---    32    2,384
27.5KV circuit breakers    set    19.9    85   1,689   236   4,689            .      321    6,377
27.5KV on-load switch      set     9.9    45    447   277   2,752             ---   322    3,199
110KV isolation switch     set    12.9    20    258    31    400              ---    51      659
27.5KV isolation switch    set     6.0   100    596   303   1,806             ---   403    2,402
110KV voltage & curr. transf. set  6.0    50    298   142    846                    192    1,144
27.5KV voltage & curr. transf. set  2.0   100    199   309    614                   409      813
Distribution switch board  set     9.3    20    185    20    185   171   1,586   211    1,957
Junction remote control    set 1,631.1           ---           ---      3   4,893      3   4,893
Contact wire              ton      4.5   614   2,756  1,884   8,456           --- 2,498   11,212
Section and phase insulators  set  1.9   200    382   428    818              ---   628    1,200
Split-phase device        set    51.7    20   1,033    53   2,738             ---    73    3.771
Power transformer, 500 kVA  set    19.9    1      20     1      20                     2      40
Power transformer, 50-63 kVA set   3.0    16      48    16      48            ---    32       95
Catenary fittings                              4,642         4,860            ---           9,502
Catenary repair car       set   183.8                                   1    184       1     184
Hi/rail double duty car    set     9.9                                 11    109    11       109
Loco inspection equipment   set    69 5          ---           ---             70             70
18,622        34,896          6842360
Slanallina
Jointlesstrackcircuit      set     4.3   300   1,294   500   2,157   811   3,498  1,611    6,948
Station data transm. equip.   set  1.8   100    176   100    176   244    429   444          781
Wayside transmission equip. set    1.1   250    280   250    280   540    605  1,040    1,165
Cab signals with speed monit. set    43.8        ---           ---   325  14,250   325   14,250
Test instr. for wayside equip.  set  5.9         ---           ---    84    492    84        492
Test instr. for cab signals    set    34.0       ---           ---    29    986    29        986
Welding flux               set     0.1   300      36   500      60   900    107  1,700       203
Lightning arrest unit     set      0.1   400     33   600       49  1,100      91  2,100     173
Tools for installation     set     0.7    80     52            ---            ---    80       52
Technical training                               99            --             -
1.970         2,722        20,457          25,149
Source: Ministry of Railways and mnission ernmates, Jan-1 93 prices.              UMWEMK - Feb. 10, 1993



Table 3.11
- 79 -                                                Page 3
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Capacity ExDansion SubcomDonent
Chenadu - Kunming Line
List of Goods to  be  Financed  by the  Proposed  Loan  (US$ 000)
Unnd     1994          1995           1996          1997          Total
Unit  Price Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount
Communications
Optical terminal (34Mbts)  set    15.1    4      60     3      45      2      30     1      15      10    151
Optcal repeater           set    21.6     8    172      6    129       4      86     2      43     20    431
Multiplex equip. (2134Mb)  set    9.0            --      1      9            .       1       9       2     18
Multiplex equip. (2/8/34Mb)   set  9.5          ---    3       29      1      10            ---     4      38
SPC (10,240 lines)        set 1,658.9            --     1   1,659                                    1   1.659
SPC (3,072 lines)         set   695.3           .        1    695            ...           .--       1    695
SPC (2,048 lines)         set   419.2            ---    1    419       1    419             ..       2    838
Remote module (256 lines)   set    46.7         ---     3    140       1      47                     4    187
Remote module (480 lines)   set    67.5           .    2    135              ...                    2    135
Optical fiber fusion splicer    set  8.6        ---    2       17      1       9            ...      3     26
Printer with GP-1 8 interface   set  0.8  1       1     1       1      1       1                     3      2
Single mode opt. attenuator   set  0.9    4       4     5       4      1       1     1       1     11      10
Oscilloscope (I00MHz)     set     2.7     2       5     2       5      1       3     1       3      6      16
Code error analyzer       set     4.8     2      10      1      5      1       5     1       5      5      24
PCM integrated analyzer   set    11.0     1      11     2      22      1      11           ---      4      44
64K error analyzer        set     3.3     4      13     4      13      2       7      1      3      11     36
Cabradiostation(400MHz)   set     5.9   103    604   111    651    30    176    30    176    274   1,606
Base station (400MHz)     set    13.6    54    735    55    748    28    381    25    340    162   2,205
Satellite station equipment    set   149.0      ...           ...             --     3    447        3    447
Satellite station instruments   set    49.7     -.-                                  3    149        3    149
Disaster alarm system     set   496.7     1    497            ...            ---            - -      1    497
Supervision console       set    19.1     1      19      1     19      1      19            ---      3     57
Portable station          set     1.0  548    544   572    568   300    298   105    104  1,525   1.515
Dispatcher control board  set     4.3     6      26     5      21      2       9      1      4      14     60
Outsidetunnelbooster      set     7.3    57    413    61    442    43    312    22    160    183   1,327
Inside tunnel booster     set     6.3    70    438    71    444    50    313    37    232    228   1,427
Repeater antenna          set     0.2   116      23   120      24    65       13    65      13    366      73
Buried cable (4-core)     km      3.6    38    136            ...                           . .    38    136
Buried cable (8-core)     km      4.5            ...           ---. 100    447    50    223    150    670
Buried cable (10-core)    km      5.0           --.           ---    16       79     8      40      24    119
Low-loss radio freq. cable  km    8.7   6.9      60   6.9      60    4 8      42   1.41     12      20    174
Misc. test instruments    lot                   207           191            117            43            558
3,978        6 497                                       15.330
Slanallina
Axle-counting equipment   set    21.9   68   1,486    69   1,508             - -.           - -    137   2,994
Speed control equipment                       3,073         3,076          1,445          1,445          9,040
Centralized traffic control                   1,139          1,172           -- -           --.          2,311
r  r698      5 756          1,445          1445 os1.31
Source Ministry of Ralhvsys antt miscon estimates, Jan l 93 I re                                UM/EMK - feb 10. 1993



Table 3.11
80                                                   Pago 4
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Capacitv ExDansion Subcomponent
Chenadu - Kunmina Line
List of Goods to  be  Financed  by  the  Proposed  Loan  (US$ 000)
Unit     1994          1995          1996           1997         Total
Unit  Price Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount
Electrification
Powerdisc.switches(11OKV) set    14.9   17    253    27    402    16    238         9    134      69   1,028
Power disc. switches (27.5KV) set    7.0   20    139    24    167    14     97      6      42     64    445
Circuit breakers (27.5KV)  set    24.8   75   1.862    95   2,359    64   1,589    30    745    264  6,556
ZnO arresters(1IOKV)      set    6.0   39    232    41    244    42    250    16           95    138    822
ZnO arrestem (27.5KV)     set     1.5  130    194   150    223   126    188    48          72    454    676
Currentmut.induct.(110KV)  set   6.0   39    232    47    280    42    250    16          95    144    858
Current mut. induct. (27.5KV)  set  3.0   80    238   120    358    95    283    37    110    332    989
Voltagemut.induct.(11OKV)  set    6.0   36    215    46    274    40    238    16          95    138    822
Voltage mut. induct. (27.5KV)  set    3.0   56    167    73    218    57    170    22      66    208    620
Capacitor comp. devices I    set  139.1        .--     7    973      6    834             ---    13   1,808
Capacitorcomp.devicesll   set   149.0          ...    12   1,788    21   3,129      6    894      39   5,811
Secondary equipment                          1,490          1.987         2,583         1,689          7,748
Telecontrol equipment                          708         1,280          1,058          728           3,775
Comp. electric dev. (110KV)   set  519.5  2   1,039     1    520           ...            ...      3   1,559
Copper contact wire      ton     3.9  587   2,316   577   2,274   382   1,505   191    752  1,736   6,848
Electricpowercable       km    20.8  12.2   253   15.8    328   10.4    216    5.4    112   43.8    909
Section insulators        set     1.9  145    277  145.9    279  87.4    167  43.7         83    422    806
Phaseinsulators          s       0.3   18        5  21.4       5  11.8       3    5.8       1    57      14
Contact system parts    (Oo)    1.9  182    348   182    348   104    199    52            99    520    993
Progr-contr. detecting car  se   397.3         -.            . ..     1    397            ...      1    397
Contactsyst.repaircars    se   183.8           -.-      1    184      1    184      1    184       3    551
Contact syst. insp. car   set  993.3            ---          ...      1    993            ...      1    993
Insulator cleaning cars   se   496.7           ---      1    497      1    497            ...      2    993
9.969       14.988         t 5069         5,998         46,024
Rolilna Stock Equipment
Infrared hot box detectors                     -..         1,758           -.              ...         1,758
Survey Equloment
Electronic survey equipment  set   46.0   10    460    10    460           .              ---    20    920
Stellar-basedposdioningsyst. se   110.3  1    110      2    221            ---            ---      3    331
Engineering duplicator   set  220.5      1    221                                          .       1    221
Bluepnnt machine         set    27.5     2      55     2      55           --.            ---      4    110
Offset press             set   36.8      1      37           ---            ---           ---      1     37
Truck mounted cranes (3-Ston) set   26.4  3     79     2      53           .                       5    132
962           Ws8            .             -_           150
Sub-Total                                     20.608       129.89                                      79.208
Physical Contingencies                       1,030         1,489           967           473           3,960
Baseline Estimate                               t           31,277        2.             9.938         8.6
Price contingencies:
% per year                                   1.90          2.70          3.40          3.60
% compounded                                 4.78          7.19         10.46         14.33           8.21
amount                                      1,035         2,249         2,125          1,424         6,832
Tou dai                                       22.673        33 222.439                   1 ,362
Source Minisiry of Raifwgys and mism swon msllfllas. Jan-1-93 onces.                          UM/EMK Feb 10. 1993



- 81~ _                                      Table 3.12
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Track Maintenance Subcomoonent
List of Goods to be Financed by the Proposed Loan (US$ 000)
Unit    Unit       1994           1995            Total
Price Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount
Heavvy-utv machines
Ballast cleaners               set 1,355.9      3   4,068       3   4,068       6   8,135
Double-head tamping machines   set   730.1      6   4,381       5   3,650      11   8,031
Dynamic track stabilizers      set   717.5      7   5,022       7   5,022      14  10,045
Ballast regulators             set   208.6      5   1,043       5   1,043      10   2,086
Single-head tamping machines    set   521.5     7   3,651              ---      7   3,651
Rail flaw detecting car        set 1,460.2      1   1,460              .        1   1,460
Rail grinding train            set 5,215.0      1   5,215              ---      1   5,215
Rail welding machine           set 1,460.2      1   1,460              .        1   1,460
Instrumentation                set                   1,181            522            1,702
27.480         14.305          41,785
Track condition monitoring facilities
Calibration instruments for
track inspection cars       set 1,074.3       1   1,074             ...      1   1,074
Parts and components for
track inspection cars       set   500.6       1     501             ---      1      501
Calibration instruments for
rail flaw detectors         set   521.5       1     522             ---      1      522
Computer management system    set   782.3       1      782             ---      1      782
CAD station                    set   417.2      1     417              ---      1      417
3 296            ---          3i296
Track upgradina technoloav
Insulated joint technology                             156                             156
Rail stretcher                                          31                             31
Longitudinal force measuring equipment                 21                              21
209                             209
Sub-Total                                            30.985          14.305          45.290
Physical Contingencies
Baseline Estimate                                    30.985          14.305          45.290
Price contingencies:
% peryear                                           1.90            2.70
% compounded                                        4.78            7.19            5.54
amount                                             1,482           1,029           2,510
Total                                                32.466          15S334          47.800
Source: Ministry of Railways and mission estimates, Jan-1-93 prices.         LIt/EMIK - Feb. 10, 1993



- 82 -                                       Table 3.13
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Locomotive and Rollinr Stock SubcomDonent
List of Goods to be Financed by the Proposed Loan (US$ OOO)
1993      1994      1995      Total
Locomotives
Governors                                       ---       ---     2,347      2,347
Govemor manufacturing machines                  ---       730       522      1,252
Turbo supercharger manufaturing machines        ---       ---       730        730
Electric motor testing instruments              - - -     261       ---        261
Press for connecting rod manufacture            - - -     - - -   4,381      4,381
Injection pumptnozzle manufacturing machines    - --      261       417        678
1252      8,396     9,648
Freight Waaons
Air brake manufacturing machines                - - -   1,304     2,034      3,338
Wheel set overhaul and manufacturing line       ---       - - -   6,072      6,072
1 304     8.106     9,410
Passenger Coaches
Spot welder                                     ---       - - -     678        678
Sub-Total                                        ---     2 555    17,180    19.735
Physical contingencies
Baseline Estimate                                ---    2.555    17,180    19.735
Technolocv Transfer
Brake (empty/load) design and manufacturing     ---       417       - - -     417
Soluble silicate sand disperser                313        - - -     ---       313
Sub-Total                                        313       417        ---       730
Physical contingencies                          63         83       - - -      146
Baseline Estimate                                375       501        ---       876
Total                                            375     3,056    17,180    20.611
Price contingencies:
% per year                                   3.80      1.90       2.70
% compounded                                 1.88      4.78       7.19      6.74
amount                                          7       146      1,235     1,389
Total                                            383     3.202    18L415    22 000
Source: Ministry of Railways and mission estimates, Jan-1-93 prices.  ULMEMK - Feb. 10, 1993



Table 3.14
- 83 -
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Telecommunications and TMIS Subcomponent
List of Goods to be Financed by the Proposed Loan (US$ 000)
1993      1994      1995       1996      Total
Telecommunications
Telephone switching network            3,129    15,645    14,602      9,387    42,763
Transmission network                   2,518    12,592      9,973     4,308    29,392
Data telecommunication network         1,043     5,215      4,068     1,982    12,307
Conference telephone network            396      1,982      1,189       396      3,963
Subtotal                                7,087    35.434    29.832    16.074    88.426
Physical Contingencies                    354      1,772     1,492       804      4,421
Total                                   7.441     37.205    31.323    16.877    92.847
Transport Management Information System
Mainframe computers                    9,283       782       ---        ---    10,065
Yard computers                           ---     7,457        - -       ---      7,457
Terminals                              1,512     1,512        ---       ---      3,025
Subtotal                               10.795      9.752       ---       ---    20.547
Physical Contingencies
Total                                  10 795      9.752       ---        ---    20547
Baseline Estimate                      18.236    46.957    31.323    16.877   113.394
Price Contingencies
% per year                            3.80       1.90      2.70       3.40
% compounded                          1.88       4.78      7.19      10.46      5.83
amount                                 343      2,245     2,252      1,765     6,606
Total oroiect cost                     18.579    49.203    33,575    18.642   120.000
Source: Ministry of Railways and mission estimates, Jan-1-93 prices.    tL!I/E\IK -ch 10. 1993



- 84-                                              Table  3.15
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Pilot Container Transoort Subcomponent
List of Goods to be Financed by the Proposed Loan (US$ 000)
Unit      1993           1994           1995           1996           Total
Una  Price  Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount Quant. Amount
Egauiment
Containers             set      2.7           -.-  500   1,356               -      -       --  500   1,356
Flat wagons            set    14.4             -    140   2,018                             --   140   2,018
Tractors and chassis  set    52.2             ---    48   2,503             ---            --   48   2,503
Transtainer toplifts    set   417.2           .       14   5,841            ---            ---    14   5,841
Transtainer forklifts   set   417.2           ---     8   3,338             ---            ---     8   3,338
Tired gantry cranes   set   1,043             ---      1   1,043             ...    1   1,043      2   2,086
Video monit. system    set                     42            219             42            219            522
Sub-Total                                       42         1631               4           1.262         176
Physical Contingencies                          -            402            ---            ---           402
Baseline Estimate                               42         1L6.719            42          1.262         18.065
Price contingencies:
% peryear                                  3.80           1.90           2.70           3.40
% compounded                               1.88           4.78           7.19          10.46           5.18
amount                                        1            799              3            132           935
Total                                           43                            45          1.394 
Source Ministry of Railways and mission estimates, Jan-1 -93 prices.                       UM/EMK - Feb. 10, 1993



-85 -
Table 3.16
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Policy and Technical Assistance Components
List of Goods to be Financed by the Proposed Loan (US$ 000)
1993        1994         1995        Total
Studies
Railway Manaaement and Economic Contract
Economic contract enhancement          50         250          100          400
Transport productivity improvement    100         200          100          400
Financial resource mobilization        75         250           75          400
Divestiture and restructuring         100         200          100          400
Human resources development            75         250           75          400
Housing system improvement             75         250           75          400
subtotal       475        1,400         525        2,400
R.I.S.                                  50          ---          ---          50
Accounting                             200          100          ---         300
Tariffs                                 50          ...          ---          50
Container transport                     50          ---          ---          50
CETE                                   150           50          - - -       200
Environment                             75           75          - - -       150
Cast wheel technology                  100          - --         - - -       100
total     1.150        1.625         525        3.300
Epuipment for the Training Center        300         700          S00        1.500
Technical Assistance & Training
Pilot container                       150          100         100          350
Telecommunications                    ---         600          ---          600
TMIS                                  813        1,219        1,016       3,048
total       963        1.919        1.116       3.998
Total                                  2,413        4,244       2,141        8,798
Price Continaencies
% per year                           3.80         1.90         2.70
% compounded                          1.88        4.78         7.19        4.57
amount                                 45         203          154          402
Total                                  2.458        4.447       2.296        9.200
Source: Ministry of Railways and mision estimates, Jan-i -93 prices.  UM/EMK - Feb. 10, 1993



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluabon
Economic Rate of Retum (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
Capacity Expansion Subcomponent-Beijing Zhengzhou line
|                       CO)S1S|                                                                       BENEFITS
Total        Complementary Invtment         Electric     Total          Operation Savinp for           Diverted Traffic  Induced    Net
Prqject     With      Without  Net Com-   Canetay         Cost              Normal Traffic                Benefits        Traffic  Benefits
Investment   Project    Project   plementary Maintenance              Freight  Freight Tm. Psenger    Freight  Passengei Benefits  Flows
Investment    Costs               Traffic (Loa (Long Dist.)  Traffic  Traffic    Traffic
Year        (Y miL)    (Y miL)    (Y miL)    (Y mil-)    (Y mil.)    (Y miL)    (Y mil.)   (Y mil.)   (Y mid.)    (Y miL)   (Y mil.) (Y miL)  (Y miL)
1992            28.6         0.0        0.0        0.0                    28.6                                                                   -28.6
1993           418.5         0.0        0.0        0.0                   418.5                                                                  -4185
1994           759.0    21093.0         0.0    21093.0                 21852.0                                                                -21852.0
1995           965.3       162.8        0.0      162.8         48.8     1176.9        6.0       60.7       30.2        549.8   197.7  208.1   17555
1996             0.0        53.9        0.0       53.9         48.8      102.7        6.0       60.7       30.2        639.7   237.2  2505.7    3396.9           o
1997             0.0        53.9        0.0       53.9         48.8      102.7        6.0       60.7       30.2        769.7   276.7  29233    3964.0            0'
1998             0.0        53.9        0.0       53.9         48.8      102.7        6.0       60.7        30.2       879.6   316.3  334(19    4531.1
1999             0.0        53.9        0.0       53.9         48.8      102.7        6.0       60.7        30.2       989.6   355.8  3758.6   5098.2
2000              0.0       53.9        0.0       53.9         48.8      102.7        6.0        60.7       30.2      10995    3953   4176.2    5665.3
2001             0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      10995    3953   4176.2    5719.1
2002              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      10995    3953   4176.2    5719.1
2003             0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      10995    395.3  4176.2    5719.1
2004              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      10995   395.3  4176.2    5719.1
2005              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      1339.7   5145   5381.2   7283.6
2006              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      1339.7   5145   5381.2    7283.6
2007              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      1339.7   5145   5381.2   7283.6
2008              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      1339.7   5145   5381.2   7283.6
2009              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      1339.7   5145   5381.2   7283.6
2010              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      1339.7   5145   5381.2   7283.6
2011              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      1339.7   5145   53812    7283.6
2012              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      1339.7   5145   5381.2   7283.6
2013              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      1339.7   5145   5381.2   7283.6
2014              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         48.8       48.8        6.0        60.7       30.2      1339.7   5145   5381.2    7283.6
2015                                                                    -112.3                                                                    1123   
ERR-                19.8%   
* The Residual Value Shown in This Raw                                                                                           NPV(12%)=          10993.02
Files Tab401-4.wkl&fmtlkx                                                                                                                                           f
I-



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
Capacity Expansion Subcomponent-Chengdu Kunming Line
COSTS                                                                          BENEFITS
Total          Complenentary Investment        Electric       Total      Operation Savings for   DivertedTraffic  Induced Traffr Benefits    Net
Project      With      Without  Net Corn-    Catenaty          Costs        NotmalTraffi            Benefits       Fright      Freight  Benefits
Investment    Project     Project   plementiy  Maintenanoe                  Freight   Pasenger  Freight Passenger   Traffic   Tram.NTRA   Flos
Investnent                              Traffic    Traffic    Ttaffic  Traffic  INIER Reg. Reg. L1e
Year          (Y nlU.)     (Y miL)    (Y mil.)   (Y mniL)      (Y rail.)    (Y nil.)    (Y miL.)   (Y miL)   (Y miL.) (Y  miL)   (Y mil.)    (Y tiL.)  (Y Milt)
1992                28.7        0.0         0.0        0.0                       28.70                                                                   -28.7
1993               435.6        0.0         0.0        0.0                     435.58                                                                   -435.6
1994               635.0        0.0         0.0        0.0                      634.95                                                                  -635.0
1995               648.1     7242.7         0.0     7242.7                     7890.75                                                                 -7890.7
1996               395.5       109.9        0.0       109.9          76A        581.90      187.6       363    274.0   717.4         240.8       539A   1413.7
1997               211.6        4.0         0.0        4.0           76.4      292.01       187.6       36.3   342.5   896.8          301.1      6743   2146.5
199S                 0.0        4.0         0.0         4.0          76.4        80.41      187.6       363    411.0  1076.1          3613       809.1  2801.0            Co
1999                 0.0        4.0         0.0        4.0           76.4        80.41      187.6       363    479.5  12555          421.5       944D   3243.9 
2000                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.0  1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2001                 0.0         0.0        OD          0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.   1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2002                 0.0         0.0        OD          OD           76.4        76.42      187.6        363    5480   1434.8         481.7     10788   3690.8
2003                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.0  1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2004                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.0  1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2005                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.0  1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2006                 OD          OD         0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.   1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2007                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.0  1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2008                 0.0         0.         0.         O            76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.0  1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2009                 OD          0.0        0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.0  1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2010                 OD.         0.0         .          0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.0  1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2011                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.   1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2012                 0.0 0D                 0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.0  1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2013                 0.0         0D 0.0                 0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.   1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2014                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548D   1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
2015                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          76.4        76.42      187.6        363    548.   1434.8         481.7     1078.8  3690.8
20160               114.6        0.0        OD          0.0                    -114.56                                                                    114.6      1
ERR-                      28.7%      3q
Mh Reudml Valuc Shown inIhis Raw                                                                                                  NPV(12%)=                 9029.89        CD
HhiT&b4O1-1is.



CHINA
SIXIH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
Track Maintenawce Subcomponent-Track Maintenaw e
COST'S                                                                                        BENEFITS
Equipment    Equipment          Not       Net    Los is       Net    Net Labor   Reduced    RedAced            Delayed Investmeat is
Cost      h      aint. Cost    Loss    Lo  of Ecoomic   Cast   A Material   Accident    Trais   Pernaament Way Rehabilitation   Total
With           With          of Trais Tonange   Value                    Cost        Casts    Operation   With          Without      Net    Net
Project        Project                                                  Savigs                   Cash      Project      Project    Benefit Beaefits
Year  (Y mil)         (Y Mil)          (J)   (miL ton/yr. (Y mil)  (Y mil)    (Y mil)       ( M)         Y  il)   (Y mil)       (Y mi) (Y mu)  (' mil)
1994   86.7                                                            86.7                                                                           -86.7
1995                  5.7              10768       4.65     232.6     238.3          9.4         10.0       197.2                                     -21.7
1996                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6     238.3         10.4         15.0       295.9                                       83.0
1997                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6     238.3         11.5         15.0       295.9                                       84.0         o
1996                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6     238.3         12.6         15.0       295.9                                       85.1        co
1999                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6     238.3         13.7         15.0       295.9                                       86.2
20O0                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6      238.3        14.7         15.0       295.9                                       87.3
2001                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6     238.3         15.8         15.0      295.9                                        88.3
2002                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6     238.3         16.9         15.0       295.9                                       89.4
2003                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6     238.3         18.0         15.0       295.9                 @                     90.5
20D4                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6     238.3         19.0         15.0       295.9    @                                  91.6
2005                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6      238.3        20.1         15.0       295.9                                       92.6
2006                  5.7               10768      4.65     232.6      238.3        21.2         15.0       295.9                                       93.7
2007*0                                                                                                                491.5           432.6   59.0       59.0
* Theequqinentcurrent ued by track mainterace pangis asmed to have no opportunitycot.      @ Year for Rehabilitation of Track    ERR-                    54%
* Rcsdual Value Shown in This Raw                                                                                            NPV(12%)-                   329.8
FihcTabGl-Lukl&1Ax
0I-q
0



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
Track Maintenance Subcomponent-Track Rehabilitation
COSTS                                                                               BENEFITS
Equipment       Comple- Equipment             Net   Net Labor       Delayed Investment
Cost             meatary  Maintenance        Cost  A Material       In Permanmeat Way                               Economic   Total
laveatment Costs                       Cost            Rebabilitatios       No. of Train, Added       Value      Net
With  Without              With   Without             Saving   With   Without Net             Added       tonnage    Added   Benefits
Project Project            Project Project                      Project Project  Benefit
Year   (Y mil) (Y mil)  (Y mil)  (Y mil) (Y mil)  (Y mil)  (Y mil)  (Y mil)  (Y mil)  (Y mil)   (#/year)  (mil. ton/year  (Y mil)   (Y mil)
1994    132.03    3.05       749.3                    878.2                                                                              -878.2
1995                                   8.7   . 0.2      8.5       17.6                                     3202        1.5       149.9    159.0
1996                                   8.7     0.2      8.5       17.6                                    3202         1.5       149.9    159.0
1997                                   8.7     0.2      8.5       17.6                                     3202        1.5       149.9    159.0
1996                                   8.7      0.2     8.5       17.6                                    3202         1.5       149.9    159.0
1999                                   8.7     0.2      8.5       17.6                                    3202         1.5       149.9    159.0
2000                                   8.7      0.2     8.5       17.6                                     3202        1.5       149.9    159.0
2001                                   8.7      0.2     8.5       17.6                                     3202        1.5       149.9    159.0
2002                                   8.7      0.2     8.5       17.6                                     3202        1.5       149.9    159.0
2003                                   8.7      0.2     8.5       17.6    0                                3202        1.5       149.9    159.0
2(04                                   8.7      0.2     8.5       17.6                                     3202        1.5       149.9    159.0
2005                                   8.7      0.2     8.5       17.6                                     3202        1.5       149.9    159.0
2006                                   8.7      0.2     8.5       17.6                                     3202        1.5       149.9    159.0
20070                       -299.7                    -299.7               412.0    257.5    154.5                                         454.2
ERR-            16%
Year for Rehabiitation of Tracks                  * Reddul Value Shown in ibis Row                               NPV(12%)-    188.0
F11swTab4U-4.A&fiAf
OQ vX
*D -
m
t..



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
Locomotive and Rolling Stock Subcomponent-Locomotive Parts Manufacture
BENEFITS
COSTS                            Turbo Supercharger  Electric   Connecting Rod     Injection Pump and  Governor Loco.
Manufacture        Rotating  Manufacture         Nozzle Manufacture           Avail.        Total
Mackimery        Govemror    Total   Labor    Fuel           Save    Materials  Labor  Labor    Fuel         Total   Reduced       Net
Purckase        Purchase      Costs  Savings  Savings   Motor    Savings  Savins  Savings Savings    Fuel              Loco.    Benefit
Costs                                   Break-                                            Costs   Purcase
Local Foreign Local Foreigp                                   downs                                          Savimn       Costs
Year    (Y mil)  (Y mil) (Y mil) (Y mil)  (Y mil)  (Y mil.)       l. nil.)  l.)  (Y mil.)  (Y mil.) (Y mil.)  (Y mil.)  (Y mil.)   (Y mil.)   (Y mil.)
1994        5.93    35.40                   41.33                                                                                              -41.3
1995                       0.00    13.50    13.50       0.2      3.1       0.3         0.7      0.9     0.2       3.4                           -4.9
1996                                                    0.2       6.1       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2       6.7       3.1       79.6       97.8
1997                                                    0.2       9.2       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2      10.1       3.1       159.2     183.8
1998                                                    0.2      12.3       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2      13.4       3.1      159.2      190.2    
1999                                                    0.2      12.4       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2      16.8       3.1      159.2      196.6
2000                                                    0.2      18.4       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2      20.2       3.1       159.2    203.1
2001                                                    0.2      21.5       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2      23.5       3.1       159.2    209.5
2002                                                    0.2      24.6       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2      26.9       3.1       159.2     215.9
2003                                                    0.2      27.6       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2      30.2       3.1       159.2     222.4
2004                                                    0.2      30.7       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2      33.6       3.1       159.2    22&8
2005                                                    0.2      33.8       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2      37.0       3.1       159.2     235.2
2006                                                    0.2      36.9       0.3        0.7      0.9     0.2      40.3       3.1       159.2    241.7
ERR=           134%
NPV(12%)=       860.6
Pli: Tab4@-1.uk1&fimax
ID -
PD
W



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECr
Economic Evaluation
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
Locomotive and Rolling Stock Subcomponent-Wagon Parts Manufacture
BENEFITS
COSTS                                           Air Brake Manufacturing             Wheel Set Overhaul            Foundry   Wagon
(including brak cylinder and empyoad and Production Line          Casting   AvaiL       Total
Machinery      Acquisitio, of   Production  Total   Brake   Savins  Reduced Labor  Labor and Wheel Materials Reduced  Reduced    Net
Purcha-e        Technology        Cost      Costs  Repair in empty/ Pig Iron  Cost  Operating  Cost    Cost    Defect   Wagon   Benefit
Savinp  load box  Waste  Savn-gs Accidents Savn gs SavitU    Costs   P rch- 
Local Foreign  Local  Foreign                                  Purchase                      Saving_                                 Costs
Year  (Y miL) (Y miL) (Y miL) (Y miL)   (Y mil.)  (Y mil.)    mil.)  (Y mil.)  (Y mil.) (Y mil.)  (Y miL)  (Y mil.) (Y mil.)  (Y miL)   (Y mil.)  (   2il.)
1994      7.70    54.27                                 61.96                                                                                          -62.0
1995                        3.36    6.60                 9.96                                                                                          -10.0
1996                                            1.25     1.25      8.1       2.9      1.4      0.1         2.2    0.7       0.1        1.2       7.9    23.3
1997                                            1.25     1.25     16.3       5.8      2.8      0.2         4.4    1.3       0.2        2.4      15.9    47.9
1998                                            1.25     1.25     32.5       5.8      2.8    0Q2           4.4    1.3       0.2        2.4      15.9    64.2
1999                                            1.25     1.25     48.8       5.8      2.8      0.2         4.4    1.3       0.2        2.4      15.9    80.4
2109                                            1.25     1.25     65.0       5.8      2.8      0.2         4.4    1.3        0.2       2.4      15.9    96.7
2001                                            1.25     1.25     81.3       5.8      2.8      0.2         4.4    1.3       0.2        2.4      15.9    112.9
2002                                             1.25    1.25     97.5       5.8      2.8      0.2         4.4    1.3        0.2       2.4      15.9   129.2
2003                                             1.25    1.25    113.8       5.8      2.8      0.2         4.4    1.3        0.2       2.4      15.9   145.4
2004                                             1.25    1.25    121.9       5.8      2.8      0.2         4.4    1.3        0.2       2.4      15.9   153.6
2005                                            1.25     1.25    130.0       5.8      2.8      0.2         4.4    1.3       0.2        2.4      15.9   161.7
2006                                             1.25    1.25    130.0       5.8      2.8      0.2         4.4    1.3        0.2       2.4      15.9   161.7
2007'                                                             73.1                                                                                    73.1
ERR-                    54%
Residual Value Shown in This Row                                                                                               NPV(12%)                381.5
Flu: TahbW3-4.v*1jftA
Cr



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
Locomotive and Rolling Stock Subcomponent
Coach Manufacture(Spot Welding Equipment)
COSTS                          BENEFITS
Equipment           Materials      Lsbor       Total Net
Year            Pwsbase              Savinp       Savins       }Benefits
(Y miL)             (Y miL.)     (Y nuL)      (Y IniL)
1992          3.9                                                 -3.9
1993                                     0.7          02            0.9
1994                                     0.7          0.2           09                                       1
1995                                     0.7          02            09                                      '0
1996                                     0.7          02            09
1997                                     0.7          0.2           0.9
1998                                     0.7          02            09
1999                                     0.7          0.2           0.9
2000                                     0.7           0.2          0.9
2001                                     0.7           0.2          0.9
2002                                     0.7           0.2          0.9
2003                                     0.7           0.2          0.9
2004                                     0.7           0.2          0.9
2005                                     0.7           0.2          0.9
2006                                     0.7           0.2          0.9
ERR=                 21%
NPV(12%)=              1.8
Note:  Production will be 1,200 coaches per year. Material savinp                                          2Q a,
include primer, filler and painL Labor svinp re for coach                                          , 
preparation and levelling for inaccurate welds
Fzles Tab4O3-7.wkl&fmt/



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECr
Eoconomic Evaluation
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
TableTelecommunications and Transport Management Information System (TMIS) Subcomponent
COSTS                                                     BENEFITS
Telecom           TMIS             Software         Total      Labor    Wagon            Total
Equipment       Equipment         Acquisition        Costs       Cost    Purchase          Net
Savings    Cost         Benefits
Savings
Year        (Y inL)          (Y mil)            (Y MI)             ml      (YmiL)   (Y mEL)         (Y m)
1992                 3.2              0.0                0.0          3.2                                  -3.2
1993               293.2             94.1                0.0        387.2                                -387.2
1994               6665              91.8                0.0        7583                                  -7583
1995               188.0             46.8                0.0        234.8                                -234.8
1996                                                                         304.8        648              9523
1997                                                                         304.8        648              952.3
1998                                                                         304.8         39              343.7
1999                                                                         304.8         39              343.7
2000                                                                          304.8        39              343.7
2001                                                                          304.8        39              343.7
2002                                                                          304.8        39              343.7
2003                                                                          304.8        39              343.7
2004                                                                          304.8        39              343.7
2005                                                                          304.8        39              343.7
2006                                                                          304.8        39              343.7
ERR=                    49%
NPV(12%)=              1582.7 1
FIrk TAb4N4- .Ykl&fmO/                                                                                                            0



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
Pilot Container Transport Subcomponent
COSTS                                         BENIFITS
Total      Operating     Total       Road        Time       Demage    Net Value    Total
Investment     Costs       Costs       to Rail     Savings    Reduction   Added of    Net
Cost                               Diversion                             New      Benefits
Benefits                            Service
Year        (Y mi) (Y mil.)                      (Y mi)      (Y mil.)    (Y nuL)        ((Y miL)
1993             238.4        0.00      238.45          0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0   -238.4
1994              85.1         0.00      85.13          0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0    -85.1
1995              13.4       106.15     119.55         97.3       34.7          9.5       58.4      803
1996              19.2       106.15     12539          97.3       34.7          9.5       58.4      745
1997               0.0       106.15     106.15         97.3       34.7          9.5       58.4      93.7 
1998               0.0       106.15     106.15         973        34.7          95        58.4      93.7
1999               0.0       106.15     106.15         97.3       34.7          9.5       58.4      93.7
2000               2.3       106.15     108.47         97.3       34.7          95        58.4      91.4
2001              13.1       106.15     119.20         97.3       34.7          9.5       58A       80.7
2002              43.4       106.15     149.56         97.3       34.7          9.5       58.4      50.3
2003              20.7       106.15     126.89         973        34.7          9.5       58.4      73.0
2004               0.0       106.15     106.15         973        34.7          9.5       58.4      93.7
2005               5.6       106.15     111.72         97.3       34.7          95        58.4      88.2
2006             145.3       106.15     251.47         973        34.7          9.5       58.4    -51.6
2007               8.8       106.15     114.91         973        34.7          95        58.4      85.0
2008              13.9       106.15     120.07         973        34.7          9.5       58.4      79.8
2009               5.2       106.15     11131          973        34.7          9.5       58.4      88.6
2010               2.1       106.15     108.24         973        34.7          95        58.4      91.7
2011              48.1       106.15     154.26         97.3       34.7          95        58.4      45.6
2012           -149.5        106.15     -4337          973        34.7          95        58.4    2433
ERR=           21.1%
NPV(12%)=       187.7
Filmc Tab4O5-1.wkl&fmt/k                                                                                                     (t



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 4.6: Summanr of Economic Evaluation Results-Base Case and Sensitivity Analysis
Subcomponent                  Base Case           Increase in Investment  Reduction in Besefits       Assumptions for Reduced Benefits
Cost                                                  Calculation
ERR    NPV (Y mil.)   ERR    NPV (Y nil.)   ERR   NPV (Y uil.)
Capacity Expansion                                                                                          Project Investment Cost Increased 20%;
(a) Bcijing-Zhengzhou line            19.8%        10993.0    19.5%        10690.5    12.7%          839.4 Induced Traffric Benefits Reduced 50%
Project Investment Cost Increased 20%;
(b) Chengdu-Kumming Line              28.7%         9029.9    27.5%         8717.6    23.4%         5823.3 Induced Trafflic Bencfit Reduced S0%
Track Mainteance Mecamization                                                                             Equipment Cost With Project Increased 20%;
(a) Track Maintenance                 54.0%          329.8    47.0%            308    14.0%           18.3 Operating Cost Savings Reduced 20%
Equipment Cost Increased 20%;
(b) Track Rehabilitation              16.0%          18&0    15.0%           154.7    13.0%           22.2 Reduced 20% of Economic Value Added
Locomtive and Rolling Stock Parts                                                                           Project Investment Cost Increased 20%;
(a) locomotive Parts                 134.0%          860.6   120LO%          851.1    98.0%          522.2 Savings in Locomotive Investment Reduced 50%
Project Investment Cost Increased 20%;
(b) Wagon Parts                       54.0%          381.5    48.0%          36&8    44.0%           22&2 Brake Repair Savings Reduced 50%
Project Investment Cost Increased 20%;
(c) Coach Manufacture                 21.0%            1.8    17.0%            1.1    15.0%            0.6 Materials Savings Reduced 30%
Teleom saications and TMIS                                                                                  Projcct Investment Cost Increased 20%;
49.0%         1582.7    41.0%         1409.9    37.0%          861.2 Labor Savings Reduced 50%
Pilot Container Transport                                                                                   Project Investment Cost Increaed 20%;
21.1%          187.7    17.0%          116.9    19.8%          157.6 Time Savinp Reduced 15%
FIiles: 406  |&iVh
m
f%



CHINA
SDKTH RAILWAY PROJECr
Acta   d o ePocaw C_aoWfle  hcome Staements
For the Twlew Maoths Eaded Deember 31 (Yuan Mflim)
Actl         Aul          Actal         Actul        Acu        Esa4t         Fomeca       Forecw       Forec         Forecas      Forecag
1967         1968         1969          1990         1991         1992         1993         1994          1995         1996         1997
VOLUME
FREIGHT (Tom) (Net Ton-kmbil.)                            946           966        1037         1.048        1.0t1         1.130        1.175        1,220        1.26          1.314         .364
PAS4NGER (PaY_= bi.)                                      284           326          303          260           281          300          312          323           336          349          362
TOTAL (C.TsKm MIl)                                       1.230        1.312         1.340        L308         1362          1.430        1.487        1.543         L602        1L663         1.726
OPERATING REVENUES
FREIGHT                                                 19.186       19.925       22.007        27,213       31,139       38.194        57.340       68.076       71,909        79.891       t4.295
From ran                                               19.186       19.925        22.007       27,213       29.143        30.284       37.365       41.236       44,057        5Q,963       54,287
Fnm   aua    I                                             0             0            0             0        1,996         7.910       19.975       26.840       27.852        28,90Q       30.006
PASSENGERS                                               5563         6.381        7.665        11.090       12,180       13.020        13,541       14.018       14,582        15.147       15.711
OTHER V                                                  1.463        1.756        1,935         2*2          3,385        4.099         409          4.961        5.457        6.003        64603
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                                 26.212        28.062       31.607        41.105       464704       55,313        75.390       87,055       91,948      101,041       106.609
EXPENsE
OPERATING EXPENSES
PAYROLL                                                  2,897        3,444        3,905         4,277        5.566        6.345         7.297         .172        9.071         9.842       10580
MATERIALS                                                1,820        2,598         2.870        3.258        3.772        4.677         5.051        5.600        6,067         6.617        7.193
ENERGY                                                   Z644         3.075        3.383         3.846        4.351        4.917         5,610        6.3ff        7,291         8.311        9,475
ELECTwRIC  Y                                              389           530          740           897        1.023         1.283        1.560        1.894        2301          Z796         3.397                 o
PROVFOR MAJOR REPAIRS 3/                                 3,314        3,414        5,874         6527         777          8.005         8.805        9.686       10,664        11.720       12.892
DEPRECIATION 3/                                          3.314        3.414        3.924         4,356        4.t64        5,350         5.885        6.474        7.121         7.834        8.617
OTHER 4/                                                 2,912        3.797        4.286         4,646        5.656        6.346         7.057        7.7          8,515         9.324       10.210
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                 17.290        20.272       24.962       27.807        32.509       36.923       41265         45.996       51.050       56.444        62364
OPERATING INC(YO                                          8.922         7.790        6.625       13.296        14.195       18.390       34.125       41.057        40.896       44.597       44,245
NON-OPERATING INCOiME
REVENUE FROM SUBSIDlARIS                                  992           865          479          200            49           49           49           49            49           49           49
AND FACTORIES S/
NON-OPERATING EXPENSES
INIEREST AND REPAYMBNIS                                   992           754        1.871         1.940        2,115        3.596         4.190        5.800        5,100         5.100        5.100
INCOME BEFORE TAXES                                       8.922         7,901        5.233       11.558        12.129       14,U43       29,964       35.30         35.47       3954         39.194
AND TRANSFERS TO GOVERNMENT
BUSINESS TAX 6/                                          1.382        1,487        1.675         2.18         2.499        2,657         3.090        3.352        3.565         3.999        4.244
TRANSFERS TO GVT.                                                                                2,000        2.000        20            2.000        2.,0         2.000         2.000        2.000
NET INCOME                                                7,540         6,414        3,558        7,370         7.630       10,186       24.894       29.954        30.282       33,547        32.950
OF WHICH:
CAP. CONSRUCnION FUND                                    6,121        4,952       2258          5,870        4,111          647         3.154        1,2Q4          361         2,400         517
RAILWAY CONSTRUCrION FUND 7/                                              0            0            0         1,U89        7.789        19.850       26.709       27.717        28.767       29.862
SPECIALFUND FOR HBEALTH AND WELFARE                      1,419        1.462        1.300         1500         1,630        1,750         1,890        2.041        2,204         2.380        2.571
V  m lMadk 15,1991 a frelAt surg  of Fen 0.2 per too-km was introluced. ITe sucharge was Ireased to km 1.2 per to-km a July 1 1992                                                                                 03
lardcas buds  lectedbyRailmayAdmiistrtio  to biEd staff house.
3/ Deprecitiob  pre-det.rmed at 4% of httoral coab of ficed asseb; for 1987-1991 psovinis for major                                                                                                                1_
wee 6% of dklorkal coas of ftd asetb; from 1992 ieads provtskas for major rcpair are 10% of the ktoeked cab  of fixed abds.                                                                                       m
4/ Cobeaersd aunlatretive ewpmsea oveshead [example peais for retired eqlooyes. haflt  has ce fmads. sttiea md trnm sedcurky relsted axoases) and apes reftfog to coptn md office eqaipeat                 .l
S/Net           i contibutis. Lt. aie. rdedutfog apease leludig deprecia1m.
Q 5.35% o gas  operetkg revues.
7/ Revenues rmthe fre4ht        t mhargmtodued an Match 15.1991an depoited lEa RallyCoutruction Fud.
Somme. MOR md tie Bmk Stff. Nowriaber 1992 I        s T.1kl&sia



CHINA
SDCIX RAILWAY PROJECr
Actual and Forecat Consolided Balance Sees V1--For the Telve Months Ended December 31
Actual       Actual      Estimate     Forecast      Forecat      Forecat        Forecast       Foeot
1990         1991         1992          1993         1994          1995           1996          1997
ASSEI
CURRENTASSETS
CASH                                               8,708       12,195        12,275       11,88         11,451       11,64          11,477         11,490
INVENTORIES                                        2,179        2,911         2,923        3,392         3,892        4,128          4,428          4,675
RECEIVABLES                                        3,500        5,402         5,456        5,510         5,565        5,621          5,677          5,734
OTHER 2/                                           1,601          765          772           780          788           796           804            812
SUBTOTALCURRENTASSETS                            15,988       21273         21,426       21,550        21,696       21,909         22,336         22,711
FIXED ASSEIS
GROSS FICED ASSETS IN OPER.                      125,709       143,105      158,926       176,330      195,474       216,712       239,695        265,076
LESS ACCUML DEPRECIAMON                           (36,461)     (41,618)      (47,291)     (53,531)     (60395)       (67,945)      (76,250)        (85,86)
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.                         89,248       101,487       111,635      122,799      135,079       148,767       163,445         179,790
WORK IN PROGRESS                                   34,844        35,134       38J,80        41,136       42Z098        44A57         45,446         47,620
LONG-TEM    INVESTMIENTS 31                        12544         13,684       15,150        16,557       18,213        20,034        22,08          24,242
DEFERRED FOREIGN EXCEL LOSSES                       2,389         3,431        3,603         3,783        3,972         4,170         4,379          4,580                        I
OTMER                                                 158          316           316          316           316          316            316            316                       %0
TOTAL ASSETS                                       155,171      175,325       190,930      206,141      221,374       239,253       257,960        279,259                       >4
CURRENTU ABIllllES
SHORTTERM DEBTS                                     337           209          250           280          300           377           400            500
ACXCOUNTS PAYABLE                                  6,143        7,391         7,465        7,539         7,615        7,691          7,768          7,846
SUBTOTAL CURRENT IABILUlIES                        6,480         7,600        7,715         7,819        7,915         8,068         8,168          8,346
LONG TERM DEBT(net of current maturities)
LOCAL                                             15,994       19,946        23327        20,108        24,845       27,483         29,561         32,336
FOREIGN World Bak                                  2,715        3,074         3,507        4,053         4,534        5,039          5,568          6,071
OECF                                    4,547        5,553         5,953        6,353         6,653        6,953          6,953          6,953
OTHER                                               520           256          306           336          356           386           406            436
TOTAL                                             23,776       28,829        33,093       30,850        36,388       39,861         42,488         45,796
EQUITIES
FXED ASSETEQUITY FUND                             85,861       94,372       103,809      114,190       125,609      138,170        151,987        167,185
CURRENTASSETEQUITY FUND                            4,053        4,519         5,016        5,567         6,180        6,860          7,891          8,850
CONSTR1UCnON FUND CONTMhBUTIONS                   21,3-8       22,297        23,412       29,651       27,037        27,867         28,185         30,285
SPECIALFUNDS4/                                    13,613       17,708        17,885       18,064        18,245       18,4Z7         19,241         18,797
SUBTOTALEQUITIES                                 124,915      138,896       150,122      167,472       177,071      191,324        207,304        225,117
TOTAL UAB & EQUITY                                 155,171      175,325      190,930       206,141      221,374       239,253       257,960        279,259
1/ MOR Finance Staff initiated the preparation of consolidated balance sheets in 1990. Hence 1987-1989 are not shown in above balance sheet.
2/ Receivables from administrations and staff.
3/ Funds allocated to factories supplyirg locomotives, passenger and freight cars etc., construction factories which build, for example, bridges and materials suppling companies.
41 Surplus funds for future major repairs and upgrading in trafftc operations, for future health and welfare related investments.
SOURCE: MOR and Bank staff, November 1992 PUes: Tab5o2.Wk1&fmtACx



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Actual and Forecast Source and Application of Funds Statements
For the Twelve Months Ended December 31 (Yuan Million)
Actual    Actual    Estime    Forecat    Forecag    Forcta    Forect    Forecag
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                                    1990      1991       1992        1993       1994       1995        1996       1997
NET REVENUES                                                     11,310    11,745     15,782      25,209     35,314     34,850      38,019     37,322
DEPRECIATION                                                     4,629      5,157      5,673       6,240      6,864      7,550       8,305      9,036
LOAN (LOCAL A FOREIGN)                                            4,342     4,967      5,638      -           3,687      4,522       3,594      4,330
WORKING CAPITAL (INCR/DECR)EXCL.CASH                               112       (391)        40        (427)      (467)      (147)        13          13
PROCEEDS OF SPECIAL FUNDS                                        10,033    12,302     11,400      17,371     14,090     14,212      14,167     14,349
TOTAL SOURCES                                             30,426    33,780     38,533      48,393     S9,488      60,987     64,098     65,050
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL INVESTMENT                                               11,797    12,594     15,106      23,300     32,000     33,000      35,000     35,000
DEBT SERVICE                                                      1,940     2,115      3,596      4,190       5,S00      5,100       5,100      5,100
INTEREST                                                                1,423      2,000       1,737      1,671      1,383       1,372      1,380
REPAY                                                                    692       1,596      2,453       4,129      3,717      3,728       3,720
TRANSFERS TO GOVERNMENT                                           2,000     2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000
EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT                                             3,368     3,967      4,641       5,840      6,464      7,150       7,905      8,636
EXPENDITUREOF SPECIAL FUNDS                                       9,687     9,617     13,110      13,470     13,641      13,824     14,030     14,251
TOTAL APPUCATION                                            28,792    30,293     38,453      48,800     59,905      61,074     64,035     64,987
CASH AT BEGINNING OF YEAR                                         7,074     8,708     12,195      12,275     11,868      11,451     11,364     11,427
NET CASH FLOW                                                     1,634     3,487         80        (407)      (417)       (87)        63          63
CASH AT END OF YEAR                                              8,708     12,195     12,275      11,868     11,451      11,364     11,427     11,490
SOURCE: MOR and Bank staft November 1992



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Key Fmancial Indicators Schedule
As of and for the Twelve Months Ended December 31 1/
Actual------- Estimate-------------Forecast---------------
1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995      1996      1997
WORKING RATIO (%)                   55.88%    61.28%    68.34%    58.29%    60.29%    57.86%    47.29%    45.49%    47.59%    47.64%    49.61%
OPERATING RATIO (%)                 65.96%    72.24%    79.04%    67.65%    69.61%    66.75%    54.74%    52.84%    55.52%    55.86%    58.50%
NET INCOME/OPS REVENUE (%)   28.77%    22.86%    11.26%    17.93%    16.34%    18.42%    33.02%    34.41%    32.93%    33.20%    30.91%
RATE OF RETURN ON FIXED                                                      14.88%    17.26%    29.11%    31.84%    28.82%    28.57%    25.78%
ASSETS (%)
RETURN ON EQUITY (%)                                               9.25%      8.73%     9.89%    17.90%    19.94%    18.74%    19.08%    17.41%
RETURN ON BORROWED FUNDS                                           7.77%      7.23%     8.10%    15.12%    16.54%    15.51%    15.83%    14.47%
AND EQUITY (%)
ACID TEST RATIO                                                      1.68       1.99      1.97      1.95      1.94      1.92      1.94      1.94
CURRENT RATIO                                .                       2.47      2.80      2.78       2.76      2.74      2.72      2.73      2.72
LONG TERM DEBT/EQUITY                                                0.19      0.21       0.22      0.18      0.21      0.21      0.20      0.20
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE 2/                                             9.10      9.01       6.60      9.55      8.20      9.42     10.28     10.37
WAGE RATIO (%) 3/                   11.05%    12.27%    12.35%    10.41%    11.92%    11.47%      9.68%     9.39%     9.87%     9.74%     9.92%
SELF FINANCING RATIO 4/                                                        57%       48%       76%       87%        83%       90%       90%
1/ Balance sheet related ratios could not be calaclated for 1987-1989 as MOR prepared the fist consolidated                                            0
balance sheet for 1990.
2/ Defined as operating revenues less working expenses divided by interest and repayment on long-term loans to be paid in the same year.
3/ Payroll expenses exprssed in function of total operating revenues.
4/ Defined as contnbutions to capital construction fund, raiway construction fund and deprecation compared to capital investments (based on the 8th
5-year plan) augmented by equipment replacements in the following year.
SOURCE: MOR and Bank Staff, November 1992. P h: Tabso4.wklafinmkx



- 100 -                                     Uble 5.S
NOR'S CAPITAL INVESTHENTS AND SOURCES OF FUNDING FOR 1991-97
UNDER THE AASZ CASE /a
(Y million)
1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   Total
Actual  ------------------Projected-------------------  1993-97
Volume
Freight (Net ton-ko bil)           1,081   1,130   1,175   1,220   1,266   1,314   1,364    6,339
Passenger (Pass/km bil)              281      300      312     323      336      349     362    1,662
Total (C. ton/km bil)           1.362   1.430   1.487   1.543   1.602   1.663   1.726    0.021
Capital Inveatments
Approved in Eighth Five-Year
Plan                            12,594  15,106  23,300  32,000  33,000  35,000  35,000  158,300
Major equipment replaccenta        3,967   4,641   5,840   6,464   7,150   7,905   8,636   35,995
Total                          16.561  19.747  29.140  38.464  40.150  42.905  43.636  194.295
Sourcea of Financinx
Internally generated funds
Capital construction funds 1k  4,111        647   3,154   1,204       361   2,400      517    7,636
Railvay construction funds       1,889   7,789  19,850  26,709  27,717  28,767  29,862  132,905
Noncash expenses
(i.e., depreciation)           5,157   5,673   6,240   6,864   7,550   8,144   8,927   37,725
Subtotal                       11.157  14.109  29.244  34.777  35.628  39.311  39.306  178.266
Borrowings                         5,404   5,638         0   3,687   4,522   3,594   4,330   16,133
Total                          16.124  19.747  29.244  38.464  40.150  42.905  43.636  194.399
La  Assuming 6 percent annual grovth in CNP.
/b Represents the residual portion of net income deposited in this funde after NOR deposited
funds in the Special Fund for Health and Welfare and the Railvay Construction Fund.



- 101 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Bank GrouD ParticiDation in TransDort Sector
1.          Through November 1992, the Bank Group had loaned about $3.3 bil-
lion to China under 23 projects for the transport sector (see Table 1.7 for
Summary Statistics) and is now preparing several new transport sector proj-
ects.
2.          The railway subsector has received $1,365 million in Bank Group
funding: five loans to the national railway system (Loan 2394-CHA; Loan 2540-
CHA; Loan 2678-CHA/Credit 1680-CHA; Loan 2968-CHA; and Loan 3406-CiA) and one
loan to the local railway system (Loan 3060-CHA/Credit 2014-CHA). These proj-
ects have helped the government expand capacity on key routes and modernize
the technology for manufacturing electric locomotives, passenger coaches, and
signaling equipment. The local railway project is financing the construction
of a line in Inner Mongolia. The most recent project is assisting NOR with
railway technology modernization; development of systamwide plans, planning
tools and costing studies; and adding capacity where it is urgently needed.
The audit of the First Railway Project noted that physical components were
well executed and that macro-policy adjustments, especially in the area of
tariff reforms, and investment prioritization were likely to have the highest
impact; these conclusions are being considered in the currently proposed rail-
way project.
3.          The highway subsector has received $1,149 million in Bank Group
financing under 9 projects (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA; Loan 2811-CHA/
Credit 1792-CHA; Loan 2951-CHA/Credit 1917-CHA; Loan 2952-ChA; Credit 1984-
CHA; Loan 3073-CHA/Credit 2025-CHA; Loan 3471-CiA; Loan 3530-ChA; and Loan-
3531-CHA). These projects provide for the construction of high-quality
national and provincial roads totaling about 1,760 km, and the expansion and
improvement of some 6,430 km of rural (lower class provincial, county, vil-
lage) roads and major bridges. When completed, some of these roads will help
to provide vital missing links in the national highway network; others will
help to ease severe congestion in parts of the network or provide access to
remote areas. The projects are also designed to provide foreign technical
assistance and training of Chinese personnel in areas such as supervision and
quality control of road construction, design, and planning. Finally, the
projects support studies on key issues of highway development such as road
safety, pavement management, user charges, and methods of financing the expan-
sion, improvement, and rehabilitation of the road network. The First Highway
Project (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA) is completed; a Project Completion
Report was issued in Hay 1992.
4.          The ports subsector has received $565 million of Bank Group finan-
cing under seven projects (Loans 2207-CHA, 2689-CHA, 2877-CHA/Credit 1845-CHA,
2907-ChA/Credit 1875-CHA, 3006-CHA, 3007-ChA and Credit 5623-CHA). Most of
the loan funds are being used in Shanghai, Tianjin, Dalian, Huangpu, Ningbo,



- 102 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
and Xiamen for construction of terminals, jetties, and berths for handling
bulk co modities, general cargo, and containers, as well aa the dredging of
navigation channels. Funds also have been used for training, technical assis-
tance, and various studies such as port planning, operations management, and
containerization. The audit report of the first port project, found the pro-
ject successfully completed, on time and below cost, but recommended develop-
ing long-term strategic port investment, planning ports and improving prequal-
ification procedures; recommendations on the former point have been incorpo-
rated in the preparation of the forthcoming port project in Shanghai, and
recommendations on the latter have been taken into account in the discussion
of procurement procedures in transport projects under preparation.  The most
recently financed project vas the Ship Waste Disposal Project which involves
cofinancing between the International Development Association (IDA) and the
Global Environmental Facility (GEF) to improve ways for disposal of ship
effluents.
5.          The first urban transport project (Credit 2296-CRA, $60 million),
approved in September 1991, intended as a first stage of a long-term program
to upgrade and develop urban infrastructure in Shanghai, will finance capacity
increases of key urban links and will assist Shanghai Metropolitan Government
to improve planning, programming, finance and management of its urban trans-
port system.
6.          On  multimodal project was approved in 1991 (Loan 3316-CHA/Credit
2226-CiA, $154 million) to improve provincial transport in Jiangsu. While the
main focus of this project is on rehabilitating the provincial road network,
the project includes the first loan to the inland waterway subsector to reha-
bilitate a section of the Grand Canal and expand an important ship lock.



Summary of Previous Railway Projects
RAILWAY I
Components                                              Project Description and Objectives                                 Loan/Credit
Amount
(mil. US$)
1. Xinxiang-Yanzhou Line            Construction of single track between Xinxiang and Heze (165 km, including a 10 km long bridge); and upgrading  113
and capacity increases of the existing Heze-Yanzhou line; and related construction works. This project will
increase the capacity.
2. Datong-Taiyuan Line              Double-tracking of two sections (127 km) lengthening of all (34) existing crossing stations; construction of  87
additional crossing stations; and line electrification and installation of centralized traffic control signalling system.
This component will increase overall capacity.
3. Electric Locomotives: Manufacture  Provision of technical assistance and training. Provision of equipment to increase and improve production  20
and Technical Assistance            of electric locomotives of the present design. This component will increase the electric locomotive output to
meet the overall demand.
Total                                                                                                                                      220
RAILWAY 11
Components                                              Project Description and Objectives                                 Loan/Credit
Amount          w
(mil. usS)
1. 2hengzhou-Wuhan Line             Track lengthening at 59 stations and increase of the loading gauge of 18 bridges; electrification of the 574 km  211.5
Upgrading and Electfification       double track section; related construction works; and technical assistance. This component will increase
the capacity of this line which has the second highest traffic density in China.
2. Technical Assistance for Changchun    Technical assistance to CPCF; training of CPCF personnel in modem technical and management practices;  8
Passenger Coach Factory (CPCF)      development of a new coach design adapted to Chinese conditions, and other related works.
Bank asstance will enhance the efficiency of production and improve the quality of the coach.
3. Technical Assistance for         Provision of equipment and instruments to equip the laboratories; and                                   15
China Academy of Railway Science    training of Academy staff in fields related to the laboratories.
4. Manatement Information System Study Upgrading of MOR's management information system to improve the efficiency of its operationsL       05
Total                                                                                                                                      235
0Q



Summary of Previous Railway Projects
RAILWAY III
Components                                              Project Description and Objectives                                 Loan/Credit
Amount
(mil. USS)
1. aCngqing-Guiyag Line Upgrading   Extension of sidings from 550 m to 750 m; replacement of 43 kg/m rails with 50 kgtm rails and line electrification.  96
and Electrification                 This component will increase the line capacity.
2. Ywmgtan-Xianmen Line Upgrading    Extension of shont crossing loops from 450 m to 650 m and other related works; and eectrification     106
and Electrification                 This component will increase the line capacity.
3. Technical Assistance for Xi An Railwy Provision of better equipment. facilties and technical assistance to increase production efficiency and improve  8.6
Signaling Factory                   pmduct quality.
4. Maintenance of Permanent Way     Provision of mechanical equipment to MOR for railway maintenance to improve track condition and increase line  19
capacity. 
5. Costing Study                    Comprise specifications of the costing system to be adopted byMOR, and pilot system implementation and training.  0.4
Total                                                                                                                                      230
0
RAILWAY IV
Components                                              Project Description and Objectives                                 Loan/Credit
Amount
(mil. US$)
1. Yueshan-Xiangfan Line Double-    Double-tracking of Yueshan Xiangfan line (492 kin) and electrification from Yueshan to Luoyang (113km) to  163
Tracwing and Panial Electrification  increase the line capacity.
2. Modernization of Three Locomotive    Provision of advanced equipment and transfer of new technology to MOR to modernize three locomotive and  37
and Rolling Stock Factories         rolling stock factories to improve the quality of products.
TOal                                                                                                                                       200



Summary of Previous Railway Projects
_____________________INNER_MONGOLIA LOCAL RAILWAY                                                                        ____
Components                                              Project Description and Objectives                                 Loan/Credit
Amount
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________    m USUS)
1. L-ine Construction, Design Features    Construction of a new line with initial capacity of seven million tons per year in each direction.  150
and Operatioal Equipment            Provision of related operational equipment to improve the quality of railway operation.______
Total                               _________________________________                                                                       5
______________________                            ~RAILW AY    V                                                      _  _  _  _
Components                                              Project Description and Objectives                                 Loan/Credit
Amount
_______________________________                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(m ul. US$)
1. Systemawide Component-Permnanent   Provision of on-track machinery for permnanent way rehabilitation and maintenanc-e to imnprove the track  90
Way                                 condition and thereby increae line capacity and train speed.
2. Systemwide Component -Locoxmotives  Procuirement of wheels; critical components for looomotives:; and soime critica machinry and equipment for the  60
and RoIlmg Stock                    worksthopsan dep4&Lv  Jije obPt,ive is to reduce the ga  ewe supl an  0eadt
3. Capacity Expansion Component     Double-tracking of 594 km single-track between Zhuzhou and Hangzhou; and build a new double-track      160
-22weigan Line                      bridge over the Gma River. The objective is to remove the bottleneck and increas the line capacity.
4. Capacity Expansion Component     Provisio of additional land, new roadbeds, bridges, cuLveris, buildings, machinery, and equipment.      20
Xuzbca Tminal                       Tis component will increase raiway capacity, reduce the train delay, and the operational costs.
Tow                                                                                                    3M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sumar, of Ontoina and Proposed Protrams of Technical Cooperation between NOR and the World bank
ONCOING STUDIE
Componont             Starting               Objectives/scope            Funding source./foreign                        Status
topic                project &                                          exchange cost (approx.)/a
year
1.  Costing Study       Railway. I     To develop a coating system         Total:              $800,000    Ongoing effort by  OR. Study,
1984           which provides detailed coats       Railvway  II        $500,000    being conducted by NOR, vas ini-
of railway transport for           Railvay. IIIM       $300,000    tially delayed due to Chinae
freight by co odity and for                                         hesitation to tackle coating and
passengers by class and type                                        pricing issues  NOR now  hows a
of service.  An Important                                           greater willingnea  to expedite
follow-up is the task of                                            works it haa agreed with the Bank
revising the existing tariff.                                       through Railway. V negotiations
to r-wo    s structural distor-                                     on an action plan to: (a) cm-
tions.  S-e the Railvay Tariff                                      plate the study by December 19941
Reform Study belov.                                                 and (b) uee study results to for-
ulat- revision of tariff systm.
Proposal for railway tariff
reform  vould be prepared under                0
Railways VI. Since the Identifi-
cation mission for Railway. VI in
October-November 1991, NM bas
prepared a simplified coating
model, yielding railvay coat
estimates vhich provide a baail
for initial improvements of the
railvay tariff qystm under the
proposed railway tariff reforn
study (see below).
2.  Management          Railway. I1    To improve MOR's information        Railvays II:        $500,000    Ongoing effort by NOR. A pilot
Information         1985            ystem, through strrmlining                                         aystem  for computerizing
System  (MIS)                      of information flow  nd use of                                      expenses, revenues and way bills
Study                              modern computer software.                                           has been tested. noR is begin-
ning to develop a comprehensivo
MIS for the entire railvay sys-
tem. The comprehensive MIS would
emloy the Transport Management
Information System (THIS) pro-
posed under Railways VI to pro-
vide key input.
I!



ONGOING STUDIES (cont'd)
Co ponnt              Starting               Objectives/scope            Funding sources/foreign                        Status
topic                project &                                          exchange cost (approx.)/I
year
3.  Strategic Plan      Railways IV    To improve operational *anage-    Total:              $2,500,000    Ongoing affort by HOR.  Traffic
Study               1988           sent and inrease transport          Railways IV:s    $1,000,000    capacity modeling with ALI con-
capacity on the Jeijing-           JOF3              $1,500,000    sultants has been completed and
Shanghai line, through three                                        is being tested on a pilot basis.
areas of technologic-al modern-                                    NOR has prepared, vith the help
ization:                                                           of ZDS (USA) and CANAC (Canada)
(a) traffic capacity modeling;                                     conaultants, reports on the tel-
(b) tcleco inicational and                                         ecomnications substudy and with
(c) THIS                                                           CANAC consultants on the THIS
substudy. These reports provide
a basis for the proposed invest-
ment subcomponant for telecm--
nications and a Transport Manage-
ment Information System (THIS)
for lank financing under Railways
VI.
4.  Railway             Railways V     To develop a decision-support       Total:              $550,000    Joint effort between NOR  nd
Invezstnt          1989            system for (a) forecasting          World Bank:         $200,000    Bank.  Phase I (model development
Study (RIS)                        traffic flows on railvay net-       JO!:                $350,000    and testing) was completed in
vork; (b) evaluating economic                                       Jun  1991. Computer tools are
merits of proposed railway                                          nag available for applications by             
capacity expansion invest-                                          trained NOR staff.  RIS Phase  II4
ment; and (c) selecting high-                                       aims to apply decision-support                 I
priority investmnts and                                             system  developed under RIS Phase
increasing total system                                             I to determlin  economic priori-
throughput under budget con-                                        ties of proposed railway invest-
straints.                                                          munt  on a system-vid- basis; to
maximize system throughput under
budget constraintsl and to size
future railway lnv-eatmnt plans
under difforent economic growth
scenatios. Two of these projects
would b IMplemanted under Rail-
vays VI. RIS results are also
being Used by MRE in discussions
with SPC concerning additional
investmentC for the Eighth Five-
Year Plan.
5.  Technical           Railvays V      To develop action plana to:        Total:            $3,500,000    As agreed during Railvay V nego-
Studies             1989           (a) modernize track mainte-         Railvays II      $3,500,000    tiations, NOR has carried out the
nance; (b) modernize locomo-                                        studies.  The reports on (a)-(d)
tive and rolling stock main-                                        have boeen complted.  These
tenance; (c) modernize and                                          reports have provided a hasis for
expand the railway telecau-                                         preparing four investment subcom-
nications syatem; and (d)                                           ponents of Railways VI. 
modernize railvay electrifica-
tion technology.



1P0S STUD1ES
Copme ct                Startlin               Objectiveliscope            Funding  ourc/ cforeign                        status
topic                project &                                          exchange coat (approx.)LI
year
6.  Tariff Study        Railways VI    To prepare a propos-l to            Totals              $250,000    Origint-d from the ongoing
1992           reform  the r aibwy's tariff In    MoR(lnk Loann) :jk $170,000 oo     aiway Costing Study,- the
order to belp MOR strengtbia       World bonks         $ 50,000    study addrecsse not only the
its finacial l*lf-cufficiecy                                       jean of price distortions  but
and rmove price distortioose                                        aleo the Lmasc of *treagthenin
Maps' financial Self-sufficiency
and gratlng MNR greater aut o_m
In price cttng. A TO V*
agreed with MR cd a Tariff
Reform Study Coiltte- ad Work-
ing Group with reprecetatlom of
NOR, NON, SC and SPC were
created. A draft report ha been
prepared and dicucoad with lAnk
rtaff. The revised report is
expected to be received In tbh
lank in December 1992.
7.  Accounting          Railways VI    To prepare a proposal to            Total:              $300,000    NOR and the lank agreed on TOR
Study               1992           revise railway accounting           MOR(Bank Loana) iLb $300,000    for the study in July 1992.  MNO
ctandards to conform to lnter-                                      hac approved the study and treatc              0
natlonal cMP, to underpin the                                       it an a tect case for the trans-               0
rev _ing of MOR'c accounting                                        port *cator. 
$yeten. Thic ntudy would be
conducted under the mbrella
of NOI'c current plan to
develop national accounting
standards.
8.  Regulation &        Railways VI    To imprave (i) the efficiency       Total:            $1,700,000    Incorporation of this regula-
Managem_nt          1993           of NOR'   internal management       NOR(lank loans)s $1,700,000    tion/management subcomponent into
and (ii) the contractual rela-                                      Railways VI wac agreed during the
tionship between HOR and the                                        appraisal  iasaion In July 1992.
government, through technical                                       The agreemnt require. ratifica-
assistance  nd on-the-job                                           tion by NOR'. top  -anagement.
tralning of NOR staff. This
*ubcomponent would help NOR
adapt itcelf to a nmw market
*conomy evironment.



PROPOSED STUDItS (cont'd)
COMponent             Starting               Objectivesiscope            Funding sources/foreign                        Status
topic               project &                                           exchange Cost (approx. )/e
year
9.  Study of Cost-      Railvays VI    To identify rail technologies       Totalt              $500,000    WI1 prepared with Bank assistance
Effective           1992           which offer a cost-effective       M3R(Bank Loans)sLk $200,000    the lneoption Report In August
Railvay Tech-                      approach to expand transport        JCI:                $300,000    1992.  A Bank miesion including a
nology Evalua-                     throughput capacity, reduce                                         Panel of International Zxperts
tion (CMTE)                        transport cost, and improve                                         visited China In late October/
the safety of train  nd yard                                        early Nov mber 1992.
operations.
10. Rail-based          Railvays VI    To develop Immediate, mdium-        Total:              $500,000    The TOt for the study vas agreed
Container           1991           and long-term action plan  to       MOR(Bank Locan):/b $200,000    during the October/iNovember 1991
Transport                          modernize and expand railway        JGF:                $300,000    Identification mission, and the
Study                              container servicee.  This                                           NOR contalner traneport study
action plan aIms to help China                                      teem vas establiehed. An tledi-
promote it  exports and spur                                        ate action plan detailing the
developments of enterprises in                                      contents of the pilot container
the hinterland, by exploiting                                       traneport lnvestment component
the still largely untapped                                          under Railways VI has been pre-
potential for rail-based con-                                       pared vhich provides a basis for
tainer transport in China's                                         launchisg a pilot container
interior.                                                           transport lnct_mnt coponent to
be Implemented under Railvays VI.
First overceac visit of NOR study
tem was conducted to the USA in
May/June 1992. Revised study
schedule wvs agreed in July.
Second overseas visit took place
in December 1992.
11. Enviromental        Railvays VI    To strengthen NDR's capability    Totals                $350,000    The Pank he. provided WIR with a
Protection         1992            for envirotmntal assesmont,         HOR(Sank Loane):/b $150,000    technical assistance progrm
Study                              monitoring and control, and to    UUDPS                 $200,000    under UNDP funding to ldentify
help solve 3)R's onvironmntal                                       _ sures to alleviate pollution
problems with primary focus on                                      on passonger train  and noise
passonger trains and noise                                          along railway lies.
pollution.
Exclude, Pank staff'. tim  and travel costs.
P Funding for overseas visits and training for MOR staff.



SAR1O4AN4IQ4A SAPhUWaNs(adM2-22-93dVidghiOldAvt                                                                                                                ANE 4
CHNA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Reformino Chn's Rallway Systom: Poaross to Dow  nd Next Stae
Toplc/bajt                                                              Pnguss To Dat                                                     Next Stup
SUMMARY
AfTURE ROLE OF Mom
To become an autonomo,  *ffetvivl isgulaed                 Shme caly 19 10s, chaes hew boen made to prepar            As key steps towads ft ent of kts tubtnr ris:
entermise, which:                                          MO  for Its future role in foLw major ames:
M AOR shoAd becone fitaniah y s*el-sufficlsnt Iby
- prowides a vwisty of safe en adequat traport             1    Regulation: A Ralway Low provides a framwork            19961;
services which met custonw neds on a commercial               for railway  gulation. An economic contract
book;                                                         betwen MOR and ths govsrmmnt has made MOR               MOR shoud  be ghoen more freedom to nmk busine
responsible fwr finacing al of it operati  an          deio. iiin freedom to price an maket km
- conrols cot and refrain from using tts monopoly                captl expenditzures; and ha gn M    inentivs           services durlng 1993-20001;
power oand                                                    to increase kt prductivty and control the *ee of
ts work foae. See detai on pp. 2-3.                    the govenmnt and MOR should hnipove the ralwaY
rrmaintaIn finc  self-sufficiency. Le., has the ability                                                               econonc controct by focusing mom on sevic qusty
to fiane all of is operatn end capil expendltres,        U.   Internal           LMOR has decentreiled much           Iby 19951;
the letter lrWey through internal self-genaration of          of it decisionbmaking powr in project
cash but also through cphial market borrowing.                managrement personnl administraion nd use of          - the govwmnt should phase out al pric an cdit
proHts trom th headquwart  to the rgmna                subsidies Iby 1997);                                       O
railway administrdeons      ths factorY an
construction comanies. Aieo MOR has introduced         UOR dwould revamp it accounting sym, devlop a
peronne inceniv system to increase staff               cost accounting sstem and knprove im fiancia
productivty. So detai on p. 4.                         reporting system ionuing 1993-20001;
111.  investment an Finah: With Bank assistance          L- MOR shoud  Improv    management. hwcndw Nd
MOR has developed its firt coing model which Is        wlfar esytem  Idaring 1993-20001f
beng usd to undrpin railway tariff Impmron vnts;
Integrated the railway investmnt plan with the       - MOR sul expand the scope of fincb i  eoauce
finncng plan; developed a railway invwstmnt            mobilization, to raise mor capital to fund ks much
plaig mod I, which ie beig used to knprove the         needed investment
efficikncy of railway invesent. Se details on pp.
5-6-                                                    MOR should oonedr divesting some of its nonrel
transport funcions, to Improve its man_ngmt
IV.  Systemwide Tachnooaical Modernization: MoR has          efficiency; and
developed a capability to manufactum Its own
locomotives, freight cas, passnger coaches,            MOR shouid upgrade is information technology nd
signaling equipment, rais, sleepe. etc. With           technology to ncras ke traffic capacky at minimum
Bank assistance, MOR has In the peat ten yeas          cost inprove i srvies. srengthen is maintnce
been modernizing Its technology for the track,         systems, nd boost its nvronmenta protection iduring 
rmotiv power roiling stock, and operation systems.     1993-20001.                                           o 
See detais on pp. 7-8.                                                                                       D m
See detail below.                                       a-



SAR1 64.AN4IiHA SAR/Wdtenoad2-22-93/ddvIdgI avt 
Pe. 2
TopicObjective.                                                              Pogreas To Dato                                       Next Steps
A. To knprove the economic contract between MOR         In 1986 en economic contract wag set up between MOR        As next steps the economnic contract ehould be revised
end the governnent-to transform MOt ffrom o          and the governmet, to traafor mor financial nd             to:
govrwmnt organization int a comnrcial ntity.          mgeril responslbiites from the govrnmrnt to MO1.
with two main featurs:                                       sllow MOR to beome totaly finacilly al l-surfficient.
with the eblt to ree bornowigs and  veus within
1. The contract has enabled MOR to becomne hJb              limits takhng ito account the noed to codomp s
responsible for 1hinnchs e of kt oratink end cdel         MOR fr removl of Prc and crodit eubaidlel iby
expenditures lthouh both sef-generted cash Ind             1"0SI:
boffowigs on mrwa tanne.
- compensate MOR for loss  on Pubik Seie
Before 1981. MOFt gave *1 profta to the govenment          Obligaon (PSosI. I.e. tho" servcs MOR is rquird
which provided fundig for railway apitpa investnent,      to provide whose rveues do not fuly over coa;
Durn 19081-06, MOft went through a transion.               woit with MOR to make itks incnte ytrmn locus
more on service qulty nd less on physical
Sinrc 1986. MtOR has been obliged to frxd ei itsM          pefm        Productivity (by 1996).
opatig wnd nonopratig coats nd capial costs, In
rturn, MOR hba boen alowed to keep eli of its net        rnt^  MMOlt fiaclW responabty should be
Income after paying the govemment a sales tax of        viewed in the context of the current prke sysem in
6.3% on gross rvenues. pu a iaump-n tax of Y            Ohia, In which both Input and output prime we distorted
2,000 per yer 14.3% of 1991 gross revenusel.            downwwrds.
2. The contrct hoa given iOR incentives in the forn of     On the Input aide. MOR purches portions of martria 
n annuda pay per ri&way employee which varies with      fuel. nd ectYicIy at subsidized In-plan prices, nd pays
tafft productiv measure.                                hterat at subsidized rate on aome of It borrowings.
The staff productiviy masums ar defined in terms of     On the output side, the prices MOlt chare for hi reN
the amounts of freight nd pasoengr trafft carrid per    trwnaport services base tariffs plu surcharge) we below
employe" the total legths o@ dIffennt types of railway  thir economic coat i.e.. coats calculated with the
capacity expeneon projects bulit per mploVoy, and the   offects of the subsidis moved).
numbere of loomno   and m2hrolg stock produced per
employee.                                               See mom on prio and credit ubsideis below.
These Incentives encourage MOLR to increa  total
ouputs as well s to control th size of its worktore.
B. To remove onc end credit oubsidies for MOR.          Tlh government I phasing out price subidies by             The govnmnt souid cowmptey rmove the price and
increasi  the prices at which mneril, fuL end              crdit subsidies (by 19971.
electit am purchased In the plan nd by decreasig the
shaes of tho   iuts which ae purchasd at pin prices.
The government i alc increasing intest rdtes on loans
lent to MOR. e.g.. to 6% for Railways V nd to the Ben's .q
vaiable  ndig rdt for the prposed Raliways VI tfor a                                                                   X
20-ywr rnaturty).                                                                                                  t" 4
Between 1990 nd 1992 the level of prce nd credi
subsidies has been reduced frmm 20-26% to 1 3-18% of
raiway operatng costs.



- 11 2-              ANNEX 4
'tb~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg 3 j
0 11 11ll 11 11. 1 1 1~
E~  II , JiI,,4!,' . - li 13 lbt



MIle4UW_02-22 Pa 4
Toplclbead-                                                                    Proges To Dots                                       Net Step
S.  DTERNAL MANAGE!ENT
To Impve the fficiency of MOe internal h mnagemnt          Shce eay I OlOe decentrilzetion efforts have shifted       MOFi ehould conplet the new poicy en   aagement
nd Its raspon" to cuatoer needs.                           decision-makkh powers fromn MOR' headquaterm to the        studies under Ralways VI (by 1994-96U an decide to
12 meional railway edmistrtkona nW the constution         Inplemnmt rcommwndation me by the tudes by
en factory companies. Now these edmnstretons *nd           1996). The tudie hould prpar the bolowing actin
conipnle  nage small-scale hement projects; retain         pns:
profmts on the bes of thir pefortmanc; nd moake
staffing decisino such as the itena onzatoi                    to crete  nam  merket-orlented organizatIon an
stnt, the dstaff size an composition, an pay                   mnaeenwt i  one baed on a proft-centr or
incnves.                                                      line-of4usiness approch, alo  with wnom
corapnplve kwentiw pay systed (which
in July 19922. MO0  announed a now met of poy                  emphasdte not only phyical efficieny ut abo
chbrmes to luthr transfer decision-maling power to ttw         eartfc qualti;
reilway buream. Thees chenge wl permit the
dimlinitrations nd companise the following pow :          -   to rtin and trasfr thoee trnport dtaff who ae
made rediudant by technological modwn ;aln
-   to mak  nd     their producta. provided that they
meet their quotes in say. traffic to be caned;        -   to develop ralw Y human rsource to   t the
neede of 1 market-orented railway, through
-   to *xpOft en Iport goods nd ervice lup to the                           tn    nd mor flex"l comperaton
level of boein exchange owned fbom thwir export;          pocls;
to ue twir prfits In exces of a aecifd levol;             to divest nontretnport acbdios frm tho t_uppwt
hmotion whee app;
to pay out b_us. proide tha the overg salary
capes ea not exceeded; n                              -   to kmprv the welar eyetem  on a plot bee,.
foaming kWtdiY on the hou_ng system hin  cif
-   to prort  dher profeesione staff up to the biev  of        ggrephiccal mo.
dputy director.
MOM  bo emtid expnd hprovement of employe
hI 1906, MOF hntiutld an hcenv may aten  which            welae into the helh ce end penlon iyotenw. to meua
ties th wage peyente of raig tranport stff to the          thwe  more mrket-orend  especiay by maing the
tranaport outpu pnxduced, modIied by indicators of         benfit tranforeble to othe orgartleetons to f sNSat
phyelcal afflncy and safety. Thb inct  systwn             labor _obY  ldOUgh 20009.
appeas to be a meor factr rponsible kw MOWa high
operetirg efficiency.
hI 1986. MOR  ibttuted a bber coni  ctLM  which
permits worker to be contrad to do specific take for
specific pay. Now contrated wodkr nuber about 9%
of MOre 3.4 mNon wohk forc.
hI Febrry 1993. MOR staff agred with Sank stff to
launch now policy and mangoement studbs comohbwd
with trainino under Railways VI to det. nin  rimesures to
improve:
MOR's Intemal mnagemernt for both transport end                                                                   >
nontrensport buerneases: and
- MOR' relitionship with the govemrnmnt (including
the economic contractl.



SAR164.AN4MiA SARStWatmdo/a2-22-93div/dgni/avt                                                                                                                 NNEX 4
Page 6
Topil/Objectlvs                                                               P"rores To Date                                       Next Steps
I11 I.NSTMENT AND FINANCE
A.  To hiprv the effecthIvees of railway               Under the Bani8-eupportadl wawe investment Stud,           MOR houd:
h"tmnw thiough bttr planning nd                   ORIS). MOR has deve_oped a decon-support systm to
pdtization.                                       hipmove the selection of capacty expenen pmolcts. The          further  fine the RIS gystm  nd hItamaze kt use;
RIS system has bon usd hI thro  dffent we:                     end
to p ,odtlz relway hIestment pro4ecte;                    carefuly ex_mine the tmi  of future railway
invetmnts to maxnlet system throughput (through
-   to keas total trbafic throughput bY ja1 usn an             20001
optima combination of iknprove*mn, end (bi
khovin the fright rug procedure. One RIS
scenalo suggested nrwly 10% Increase in traffic
throughput, equivalent to 4-6 blon savins In
rallway oonaction coat though the Yew 2000 for
each mesurel; and
B.   To modewnie the ratlway *vutin                    -   to dgtt    the sie and comnposkon of d*wey
ivestmen through the yer 2000 uider difremnt
economic grwth oweneos.                               MOlt shoukd:
MOF Is deveobping a framework of natonal accountrig to        compet the accounting tudy, with
btter conform with nteational generaIly ecoepted               rcommnndbtlone on new accountg standwads by 
accounting principles  AAMP.                                    Mrch 19941; end
In July 1992. MOR ated   study, to be supported by        -   revmp k accounting systm beed on the new
Raliweys VI. to moderze It accountin  standns, which           standrds (by 19871.
wx confonri to MOFPs new standrd  nd support MOlts
emerging role as a commercIal enteprise. Thes
standards. once approved by MOF nd the Stat Audi
Admhinitation. wit prvid a bas   r revanipig MORls
accounting sytem. This is a prerequisite to enterprbs
reform in Chiu.
C.   To strnthen railway finncial inaleis and          With Bank *ssltancs. MOR has sengtend its                  MOR shoLid us more exteniely its facbi pannig
,,ann.                                       capabOiy to perhom finncbial a    under diffeent          modsl to determine future financing requ*ements to be
economic growth scenarios, to determine Mo    futur      mnobilizd from the main funding auoces ..., bee taiffs,
fuing rquients for its caplt end other                     surchaes nd bonrowingsl hrough 20001.
xpenditurms.
0.  To improve MOR's financial meportina snd           MOlt has developed a simblified costiry model with Benk    MOR shouid:
cortrol.                                         assistance under a tai study, which wouad be supportad
by the pxopoaed Slxth Proect. This cosig mode  ives       -   refn the sinplified costkng mode to reflect speciic
as a basis fr the  nplmentation of a cost accountin            terrin. region or operatng cordhions (by 19941; nd
system undr RaIIways V. Once implmented, the costng 
system wi alow MOR to analye the cost nd profit-
eblity of its rail transport operstion by traffic or service   develop  cost-accountng system  nd a fancial MIS
category.                                                      to inprove finani conrol (by 1996).                     X
nI'



SARI 64.AN4/CHA SAR5/Watanatads/02-22-93/div/dgjmid/avt                                                                                                        ANNEX 4
Page 6
Topic/Objectlves                                                               Progress To Date                                     Next Steps
111. INVESTMENT AND FINANCE
IcAnt.)
E.   To Improve the rallway tnriff system.             In March 1992. MOR and the govenment formaNly              MOR and the govemment should complete the tariff study
launched a railway tariff study, to be supported by       (by October 19931 and Implement Its recommendations
RaIway VI. to address the question of the taf level as     (durig 1993-96). The recommendations are expected to
well as the issues of tariff structure, prke and crdit    include the kitroduction of:
subsidies, and tariff-cttng flexibility.
-   a more refned tariff system which reflects
diffemrees in rai transport servkie by dirction, time
of day, quality of service required, and other f*ctom
(durig 1994-97).
- contract pricing for Its freight transport services, to
tailr the price nd quilty of service to the needs of
hndhdual sippers (durig 1994-97).
F.  To mobilize financial resouce. throuth railway     Durig  1990-91, bae tarffs and surcharges for railway      MOR and the govenwment should cios the remaining gap
tariffs and surchames.                             freight traffic ware incrend to a cumuatiw total of        through additonal incrses In railway tarffs and
41%.                                                       surchage (durIg 1993-951.
In 1989, the government granted MOR a one-time 
ncrease in passnger triffs of 112%.
In July 1992, the governmnt oranted MOR an increas in 
the RanVway Consuction Fund Surchage from 0. 2 to 1. 2
fenAton-km. This boosted freight revenues by about 35%
and reducing MOR's funding gap to 16 20% of the Y 11 S
billion inwesmnt program.
6. To mobilize financiad meources other thn twiffs,    In 1992 MOR raised domestic bonds for the frst time        MOR should try m many means as posibis to finance ts
Itotalng Y 3 bilon).                                         ge capital rquirmnts Ithrough 2000), e.g.. by
Sice the late 1950, the govenmnt has promoted the              developig more ralway projects with local
dveiopment of loca railways whih we finced by local            govennt financing;
govenmnt as another way to expand the railway
system. Local raiways now represent about 8% of the            Implent    int fib r optic projects with MPT:
total oute length of the natl railway network.
-   enterig  to Jo  ventue with other investo  to
In 1992. at the Banks enouragemnt, MOR nd the                  provie apeclizad transport services;
Mhinitry of Port and Telecommunications IMPT) sgred to
develop joint projects to I t-l ffblr optic cables along   -  lttng mor railway custome own fright wagon:
railway conidors. Becaus of the large economies of              nd
scle of such inllation, Implemation of this  itie
would help both MOR and MPT ralie signicat avings          -   expand the scope of borrowigs both domesticaly
hi scac cap.                                                   and  temationally.
The new policy chnges announced In July 1992
encourag vaious MOR units to raise capil through joint                            X
ventures with private Investors and through exports of                                                                -is
their products nd services.



SAR184.AN4/CHA SAR5jWatxn t da/02-22-93/dividg/n-Istzvt                                                                                                          ANNEX 4
Page 7
Topic/Objectives                                                                Progress To Date                                      Next Steps
IV. SYSTE"WIDE TECHNOLOGICAL MODERNIZATION
A. To m odea  railway Informatlon technologv.
Under Railways IL MOR lawicied a study to de-lop a          UOR shoud:
prototYpe nodem MIS. Baed on th study results. MiOR
la now devoping a mom comprehnsiv MItS for the              -   Inplement TMISIMIS  ha  I nd the
whol relway sytm.                                               talcommunicatlon upgradh9 progran uder
Railway VI ovewr the mik riway netwink by
Under Raiws IV nd V. MOR ha cd out a se of                      19971; an
eudbA  to ppu action pln to modenIze its
hilonato technology. The mainly  hlvel:                         rn and dexten TMIS/LIS md oondrin to upgrade
the tecmioationm systm Ithugh 2X01i.
-   o       empu* i MORe tranport pl   nd automatin
It tranport operins ITMII;
-   p1nL  railway  anapen wIth the Iincel nd
op-      _       I      e p     hifonneton
needed to monito and c      oper_tion IMISI; nd
-   de * e      moe e-fdietave _leomwmmon
eyeem t oeuppit _h        flow  Vr the ralway
11  To de i  and bmt    o             tj                    Unodr Railwys Vl, MOR  wd h _m   TMIS Pa  I
tebfinolom for railway diem ecunt Nad                   which woud pmvide kay hiftnnaton for the
tbnthm,                                                 comprehen_Ive MIS MOR is developing, as wil as
ugade thi raiway 1xsystem needed                            MOR shoud:
to auppo  the TMIS wnd MIS.
- conmplet Phs I of th CETE atidy by I31;
Sashes _mproving th thi  and piosrktion of ralway
proecXt. anothe approach to mWpovin thef officncy of        -   hIplent Pha  I recommedons on the plot
raiway invehmnwt is to upgrade th teolgy o track                conlio wIth possble flnn        hfrom Railway Vil
eqmnt. and opwaton  The wn aim Is to inecms                     (by 1sff; and
the traffL-cnybig capecty of raiway Iws at a lower vurt
cost.                                                       -   i  pemntPhasel U eomnations Iposafly
Inchlding high-speed pasnWr trhin optnI on plot
in tho peat. MOR ha takn many m    xaass to lowr the            conidors wIth possble financing from Rilway VII
unIt ct of capacity expansion, for example, by adoptng          or IX by 1999).
bee expehnsv knprovemwet such as lngthenin existg
passing loops Ito Po   lwogr trkl or uimn double-
deck p    _eeoger coaches. Howevr, there Is st mple
sop for  aher cost reductione
Under Redway V MOR dAd a study to odan*e
elect tion technolgy to Improve Ita cost-
effectiveness. The study' reomnain         Aol be
bhplmmtsd under Ralway VL
0th
In Juy 19S2. MOR _smwhed a onw effort. cede the Co                                                                       X
Ettecdl Toch_oiwv E E C KEE  Soi. to be                                                                                  J
eupoted bY Rerss VI to dae   n moms ret-
*fkeotive  m ~n to rela _mt  th   l cat of
eaolty .i9am  tse ewaety  etY             of 40% ad
salutimng  mespasidmeer paesebly  eat sevy
am -  seed    or h_pma_tl-IY



AR104.AN4/.HA SA - RIW           0ad 2-22-9OjdIv0ld~'vt                                                                                                        ANX
ToplcNbcit                                                                     Pigm.s To Date                                       Next Steps
IV. SYST  ND  TECHXOICALO    DEPJATN
C. To mowize the maintnance of railway track           MOR ha ben able to mrabin k mrack an equipmant             MOR shoukd:
m   au        II... locomotvs and wagons           walg by mot stndw ds. deapit the inadequate designs of
d c      esl                                       ke track and equipment and the lgely antiquated                mechanie tckmaitec  during 1993-971. ad
methds of maintnance.                                         foruiate d inplmnt track   _ma       e
gtandwds based on econwomrc coneldwatbon Iby
In 1989. MOR bdxmod a series of etudbe to be                   19961;
supported by Railways V to identfy meures to
moderniz the mntenanc of he track nd equpment.             -        "mu  the design and manatut of equipment
The overall *im of these etuiIsa to lowr the cost of           oponents r Ithouh 20001;
opwation an  wres system throughput capeciy.
- ronzk the maintenanc functio   nd wewk loads
The moat urget recommendations of thee studies m           of  workahops during 1994-981; _d
proposed for hil_nemttlon undr  Railwa  VI.
-   redu  the n_ube of doeanm of equment *d
D. To uprow the nwedeth  wn the guaity of                                                                             achieve ber standardization of ptu ((wough
r llww *rvm                                                                                                       20001.
The TMtSIMS Phae I bein inpisnw_ted woulid provId a        MOR should:
basis for othe infonnation sysms such a for makin
passene reasavations. tackin  lpnunt. au.                  -   enh*_c both on-ground nd on-train services.
inciding contracng out of cataun servioas on
In Novembr 1901, MOR stated a rail-basd containr               tain. answering customer qurie (by 19941;             14
trnport study, to be supported by Railwa  VI. to
fomuLat_ action pan fwor nmoerniing nd expanding           -   bpve quallty of containr tnport serice on the
contanr tranport services.                                     two piot condar. includg exteni  use of shipper
surveys by 119931;
In Apd 1992. MOR statad on a plot bas containr unt
tain service in a north-south condor connectin Haebin.         stat a nw Asle-Eusopa ln-bridge ewrvc on a
Beiin and Uungzhou. and w  expand th  service In               hnied baoo (by 19941;
eady 1993 to nothe  onidor nming seat-west
connecting Shnha and Xlan. The expanion of this                hnylmt a passenger r      tn systm  fright
pilot swvice wE be canwd ot under Ralways VL                   and paenger inonnaton sytem   nd oth r
customer-oented Information ayatwm (by 1 9964tSO)
end
E. To s_egten  MOts capabmty for
t_lprocn.                                                                                                         de vel odp  n rsil d container traport
ervice on a natonwie bi (by 1990O.
MOR should:
In 1972, MOR  detabiled an   ntal   ttlon
bureau                                                    -    trane staff to apply modem tluhiqus of
envionmntal assment. montn and cotrarl
in Fsbniwy 1092, MOR hunched a study to prepae                 (throh 20001;
action pans to reduce poutdon reted to pssenger trains
*nd nohe polluilon reuting from pmaing trains. An          -   prepa  and hnaemwnt action pan to solv th moat      lb
exteibn of this sudy wA be canted out under Ralways            urgant railway poilkn pms nd to upgrade             tD t'1
VI. to bolter MOR  capabilty for envlronmsntai                 MORs snvronmntai protection capabiit                 0 
protection on a nm  comrphamalve bass .



- 118 -
ANNEX 5
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SPC's Guarantee of Power SupplV for the Beiiinf-Zhenazhou Electrification
To:     Planning Department
Ministry of Railways, PRC
Date:     April 28, 1992
Re:     Response on your Letter Regarding Power Supply
for the Railway Electrification Proiects
Your letter regarding power supply for the railway electrification
projects of Beijing-Guangzhou Line, Chengdu-Kunming Line and Harbin-Dalian
Line has been received. Tho railway electrification projects mentioned in
your letter, as matter of fact, hs been incorporated in the State Eighth
Five-Year Plan and Ten-Year Program for the National Economic and Social
Development and consequently the required power supply and installed capacity
for the electrification has been included in the Eighth Five-Year Plan and the
Ten-Year Program. Therefore, the power supply for the electrification can be
guaranteed. Besides, the demand of power supply for railway electrification
only accounts for about 1 percent of total social power consumption which is
rather small proportion and do not affect the normal power supply to other
sectors. Hereby, we give you our formal reply in writing.
Sincerely yours,
Transportation Department of State Planning Commission
Energy Department of State Planning Comission



- 119 -
ANX 6
Page 1
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Key Implementation Date.
This annex provides key implementation dates for all investment
components of Railways VI. Some key dates represent a composite of several
dates for ease of comparison. The more detailed dates associated with each
element are given in the implementation diagram and cost tables submitted by
HOR to the appraisal mission.
Implementation Schedule
Table 1: CAPACITY EXPANSION SUBCOMPONENT
Implementation Steps                                                        Date
Item 1: Beilinn-Zhennzhou Electrification
1. Technical Spec. & Commercial Conditions                                  11/92
2. Complete Bid Documents Sent to Bank                                      12/92
3. Issue of Bid Documents                                                   5/93
4. Awarding of Contract.                                                    1/94
5. Signing of Contracts                                                     4/94
6. Beginning of Delivery                                                    3/95
7. Complete Coumissioning                                                   12/96
Item 2: Chenadu-Kunminn Electrification
1. Technical Spec. & Coemercial Conditions                                  12/92
2. Complete Bid Documents Sent to Bank                                      12/92
3. Issua  of Bid Document.                                                  5/93
4. Awarding of Contracts                                                    1/94
5. Signing of Contracts                                                     4/94
6. Beginning of Delivery                                                    3/96
7. Complete Commissioning                                                   12/97
Table 2: TRACK MAINTENANCE SUBCOMPONINT
ComDosite of All Track Maintenance Items
Implementation Steps                                                        Date La
1. Technical Spec. & Comm rcial Conditions                                  11/92
2. Complete Bid Documo nts Sent to Bank                                     12/92
3. Issue of Bid Documents                                                   10/93
4. Awarding of Contracts                                                    4/94
5. Signing of Contracts                                                     6/94
6. Beginning of Delivery                                                    6/96
7. Complete Commissioning                                                   12/96
La Based on the schedule from Penamnent Way Iquipment Computer  na8gement System Component.



- 120 -
JANNEX 6
Page 2
Table 3t TEIZCOUIIC&TIONS AND THIS SU3WoaPC0UT
Implementation Steps                                                           Date
Item 1: Telecom
1. Technical Spec. & Commercial Conditions                                     10/92
2. Complete Blid Document. Sent to Bank                                        12/92
3. Issue of lid Documnts                                                       06/93
4. Awarding of Contracts                                                       11/93
5. Signing of Contracts                                                        01/94
6. Complete Commisioning                                                       01/96
Item 2: THIS
1. Technical Spec. L Commercial Condition.                                     10/92
2. Complte Blid Document. Sent to lank                                         12/92
3. Issue of Blid Document.                                                     05/93
4. Awarding of Contract                                                        10/93
5. Sign Contract                                                               12/93
6. Complete Comissioning                                                       06/95
7. Begin Pilot Field Cutover to THIS System                                    02/96
S. login Cutover of Other Adtinistrations                                      08/96
9. Complete Field Cutover                                                      07/97
Table 4: LOCCW OTIVE AND ROILINC STOCK SUBC0UPOINT
Implementation Steps                                                           Date
Item 1: Locomotive.
1. Technical Spec. & Commercial Conditions                                     10/92
2. Complete lid Document. Sent to lank                                         12/92
3. Issue, of Blid Document                                                     05/93
4. Awarding of Contract.                                                       10/93
5. Signing of Contract.                                                        12/93
6. Beginning of Delivery                                                       12/95
7. Complete Comissioning                                                       06/96
Item 2: Wason.
1. Technical Spec. & Commercial Condition.                                     10/92
2. Complete lid Document. Sent to lank                                         12/92
3. Issues of Blid Document                                                     05/93
4. Awarding of Contracts                                                       10/93
5. Signing of Contract.                                                        12/93
6. Begining of Delivery                                                        12/95
7. Complete Commissioning                                                      06/96
Item 3: Coachec
1. Technical Spec. & Commercial Condition.                                     10/92
2. Complete  lid Document  Sent to lBank                                       12/92
3. Issues of lid Document                                                      05/93
4. Awarding of Contracte                                                       10/93
5. Signin  of Contracts                                                        12/93
6. laginnin  of Delivery                                                       12/95
7. Complet  Commissioning                                                      06/96



- 121 -
ANE  6
Pago 3
Table 5: PILOT COUTAIM TRANSPORT 8U1CMhET
Implmentation Steps                                                       Date
1. Technical Spec. L Comercial Conditions                                 10/92
2. Complete Bid Documents Sent to Bank                                    01/93
3. Issue of Did Documents                                                 05/93
4. Awarding of Contracts                                                  10/93
S. Signing of Contracts                                                   12/93
4. Beginning of Delivery                                                  12/94
7. Cplste Commissioning                                                   06/95



- 122 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Indicators for Monitoring the Progress and Effectiveness
of Railway VI Implementation
1.        During the period of construction and equipment procurement for each
Railways VI investment subcomponent, a series of monitoring reports will be
prepared. These reports will contain the same types of information as in
previous monitoring reports for previous Bank railway projects, including:
(a) tables showing implementation progress relative to major target
dates;
(b) tables and diagrams showing procurement progress and status;
(c) tables and diagrams of quantities of work accomplished;
(d) disbursement tables;
(e) financial reports.
In the case of the two electrification projects, these reports will be supple-
mented by the monitoring reports on resettlement progress to be prepared by
the Institute of Foreign Capital Utilization Analysis (see Annex 3.14).
2.        MOR staff have agreed that during the period of operation of each
subcomponent, MOR would gather additional data on a regular basis for measur-
ing the achievement of project objectives. The data would serve Bank project
supervision and auditing, and provide NOR senior management with additional
information on project performance. There are two types of indicators that
have been agreed during the mission:
(a) performance indicators, which have specific targets to be achieved
by certain project components as part of the formal agreement
between the Bank and MOR; and
(b) monitorinx indicators, which are designed to provide key information
for management and evaluation purposes, but which do not have formal
targets.
This annex contains the agreed targets for the performance indicators and a
list of the agreed monitoring indicators to be collected for each component.
A. CaDacitv ELDansion SubcomDonent
3.        Performance Indicators.  None required.



- 123 -
ANNEX 7
Pago 2
4.        Monitoring Indicators.  The following indicators aro agreed for each
major section of each railway line:
(a) annual traffic volume (line density and passenger trips);
(b)  annual throughput ("turnover" in ton-km and pass-km);
(c)  types of service offered;
(d)  average speed for trains on the line by service type;
(e)  service reliability (on-time performance by service type);
(f)  accidents by type;
(g)  percent of freight wagon requests granted (by type of wagon and
month); and
(h)  average unit operating costs (Y/10,000 combined ton-km) for each
year of operation, by cost component.
B. Track Maintenance Subcomponent
5.        Performance Indicators.  The following overall targets are agreed
for the one major railway line (Jingshan line) where current monitoring data
are available. (monitoring data to be collected for each line which imple-
ments mechanized track maintenance or rehabilitation on a biannual basis
starting in 1995 when more track measurement cars are available):
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
No. of locations that exceed
emergency repair values per
loo km of track /a                    43      51       59       59       41      25
la Sample figures for the Jingehan line. The general objective is to keep all line vhlich use
mechanized maintenance in good condition, i.e., where there are lea. than 25 locations that
exceed emergency repair values per 100 km of track.
6.        Monitoring Indicators.  The following indicators are agreed for each
major railway line which implements mechanized track maintenance or
rehabilitation (with comparable measurements before and after implementation):
(a) staff savings for track maintenance crows (cumulative);
(b) staff savings for track rehabilitation crews (cumulative);
(c) rail failures due to maintenance;
(d) accidents due to rail defects; and



- 124 -
ANE  7
Page 3
(-) delays due to accidents.
C. Lomotive and Rollins Stock Subcomwonent
7.         Performance Indicators.   Th. following overall targets are agreed
for each type of equipmnt vhich is affected by the technology transfer (ope-
cific data to be collected for each responsibility area for locomotives with
and vithout the new tochnologies)s
1991      1995       1996       1997       1996
D14 locomotives upgradd                     0          0         50        300        500
Wagon upgradd                               0      1,000      7,000     20,000     20,000
In foctlzn (2)
D14 locomotive                         11.0        8.4        8.4        7.4        7.4
Wagons (iu comercial use only)           3.2       2.8        2.8        2.7       2.7
Avalabllity (Z)
D14 locomotivo                         89.0       91.6       91.6       92.6       n.e.
Wagon. La                              76.6       80.0       80.0       80.0       60.0
Rellablity (Z)
D14 locomotive                         99.6       99.7       99.7       99.7       99.7
Absolute isliabilitv
(faLlures/100,000 loco-hb)
D14 locomotives                        2.75       1.83       1.80       1.80       1.80
Productivity (km/day)
DF4 locomotive                          476        489        490        491       491
LI Tboco figures are lor than thoce that would be calculated using intornational standard
definitions.
Notes   See the attachont to this aune for the definitions of these indicator.
8.         Monitorins Indicators.  The following indicators are agroed for
systemuide average data for affected locomotives and rolling stock (with com-
parable measurements before and after implementation):
(a)  average numbor of kilome tor  betweon scheduled maintenance;
(b)  delays due to D14 locomotive failures (hours/failure);
(c)  number of DP4 locomotive failure.l
(d)  avorage train speed (freight and passenger);
(a)  DP4 locomotive fuel consumption;
(e)  average unit wagon maintenance costal and
(f) average unit coach maintenance costs.



- 125 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
D. Telecom and THIS Subcomponent
Tolecommunications
9.         Performance Indicator.   The following targets are agreed for each
type of network development indicator which is affectod by the tclecom invest-
ments under Railways VI:
1991     1992     1993      1994     1995      1996
Transit Switch Cap. (trunks)           1,004    1,707    2,425   13,220   30,000   33,000
Local Switch Cap. (000 lines)          401.8    431.8    471.8    511.8    557.8    608.0
Connected Subscribers (000)            281.3    302.3    330.3    352.8    390.5    425.6
O.F. Tran. Syst. 140Mb/l (ki)          1,804    2,800    3,800    4,800    5,800    6,200
O.!. Tran. Syst. 8Hb/a (km)            1,044    1,209    2,209    3,200    4,200    5,200
Satellite Earth Stations                   0        0         0        4        12       12
Mobile Sat. Earth Stations                 0        0         0        1         3        3
Data Tlecom Network Nodes                  0        0         5       10        18       18
Data Tlacom Net. Subuodes                  0        0        40       45        56       56
Data Telecom Intel. PAD (No.)              0        0        78      178       378      378
Data Telecom Term. PAD (No.)               0        0       115      265       515      515
Data Telcom Not. Man. Ctrs.                0        0         2        2         2        2
Conference Network Locations               0        0         0        5        13       13
10.        Monitorina Indicator.   The following indicator. are agreed for
systemwide average data in the areas where the tolecom subcomponent will be
implemented (with comparable measurements beforo end after implementation):
Oualitv of Service Indicators:
(a) Long Distance Automation (Z)
(b)  Internal Effective Call Completion Rate (1)
(c)  Speech Satisfaction Degree (Z)
(d)  No. of Fault O/100 DELs/Month
(-)  Average Duration of Fault (hr.)
Efficiency Indicators:
(f) No. of staff/1,000 DEL.



- 126 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5
(g) No. of staff/100 km Cable
(h) No. of staff (000)
Transport Management Information System (TMIS)
11.       Performance Indicators. None required.
12.       Monitorint Indicators.  The following annual indicators are agreed
for total railway system (except staffing which is only for THIS-related
activities):
(a) loaded wagon kilometer.;
(b) percent empty wagon kilometers;
(c) wagon turnaround time;
(d) average time to obtain a wagon; and
(a) staffing level (information system activities).
K. Pilot Container TransDort Subcomponent
13.       Performance Indicators.  The following overall targets are agreed
for the railway lines which will implement the pilot container service (moni-
toring data to be collected for each line or responsibility area):
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
Int'l. ISO Containers Handled
(000 TZU/ysar)                 0.5    2.0    3.0    5.0    6.5    8.5    11.0
Total Container Throughput
(000 THU/year)                 4.5     15      30      75     86    100       114
14.       Monitorina Indicators.  The following indicators are agreed for each
major railway line and terminal which implements pilot container service (with
comparable measurements before and after implementation):
ODerational Statistics
(a) number of unit trains operated in each corridor;
(b) number of container wagons provided by corridor (flat cars and gon-
dolas);
(c) station-to-station time between major O-D pairs;
(d) percentage of on-time service (percent of unit train service arriv-
ing within the 12 hour service window);



- 127 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6
Service Oualitv Statistics (from shipper surveys):
(e) percentage of shipper.' requests for unit train service granted;
(f) door-to-door time (days);
(g) average waiting time from the order of container train service to
the actual loading of containers on the unit train (days);
(h) average elapsed time from train arrivals to delivery to consignees
(days);
(i) percentage of damaged cargo;
(j) percentage of cargo shipped by other modes; and
(k) willingness-to-pay for improved services (percentage of current
tariff).



- 128 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7
Attscbment,
Definitions of Performance and Monitorine Indicator#
for Locomotive and Rolling Stock Subcomponent
1.        The definitions of the porformance and monitoring indicators for the
locomotivo and rolling stock subcomponent are as followas
(a) Tho number of ineffective locomotive. or locomotives under repair in
percent is:
(No. of locomotive. awaiting or undergoing repairs for mor-
than 1.5 hrs. + No. of locomotive. under repairs in workshops +
locomotives in transit to and from workshops / (No. of locomo-
tives - No. of locomotives rented)] x 100S
(b) Locomotive availability in percent over any period of time is:
(All effective locomotives available for service / (No. of
locomotives owned - No. of locomotives rented)) x 1001
(c) Locomotive reliability in percent over any period of time is:
((No. of locomotives owned - No. of locomotives rented - No. of
locomotives under unscheduled repairs for more than 1.5 hr..) 
(No. of locomotives owned - No. of locomotive rented)) x 1001
(d) A locomotive failure is the inability of a locomotive to haul its
nominated train or to cause a cumulative delay to be greater than or
equal to 30 minutes for a component failure.
(a) A coach failure is any unplanned detachment of a coach from service
enrouts.
(f) A wagon failure is any unplanned detachment of a wagon from service
enroute.
(g) System ineffectives in percent includes rolling stock undergoing:
(i) workshop repairs
(ii) depot repairs
(iii) in-transit for ropairs
(h) Absolute reliability is defined as the number of failures per
100,000 km.
(i) Productivity shall be stated in units of km/day/locomotive owned.



- 129 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
The Resettlement Plan for Railway Electrification
The Prolect
1.        The capacity expansion component of Railways VI consists of the
slectrification and modernization of the Beijing-Zhengzhou and Chengdu-Kunming
lines. Among other activities, station layouts and sidings and maintenance
facilities will be changed to accommodate the operation of longer and heavier
trains. These activities, which take place at some 150 sites along the
Beijing-Zhengzhou and Chengdu-Kunming lines, will result in the resettlement
of over 6,700 people.
2.        The land needed for capacity expansion totals 153 ha, the bulk of
vhich is currently cultivated. Approximately 4,600 of those persons needing
resettlement will lose agricultural land, and another 2,100 will lose their
houses. No sites of significant historical or cultural interest have been
identified in the area to be acquired. Land acquisition and resettlement will
be completed by 1995.
Policy Framework and Letal Provisions for Resettlement
3.        Resettlement caused by state projects such as railroads is guided by
the Land Management Law of the People's Republic of China and associated pro-
vincial implementing regulations.jJ The regulations handle consistently
across provinces the major issues involved in resettlement for this project.
The most significant features are grouped below in the categories of land
acquisition, housing and other building acquisition, and job loss.
(a) Land acquisition is handled differently between collectively owned
and state-owned land. In the former case, the most important here,
the national regulations clearly stipulate that those persona losing
land will receive compensation adequate to maintain their original
standard of living during and after resettlement. Compensation for
restoring production goes to the collective unit owning the lost
land, while individuals receive direct payment for the value of
standing crops lost and for trees, houses, and other individually
owned assets. The collective is responsible for planning and imple-
menting resettlement that maintains living standards and for nego-
tiating with the MOR the exact compensation to be paid.
(b) Housing compensation varies depending on the urban or rural status
of the affected household. Urban households are guaranteed replace-
ment housing of equal or greater quality and area, to be provided by
1/ Copies can be found in the project files.



- 130 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
the state. Rural residents are guaranteed a replacement housing
plot and the value of the housing to be lost.
(c) Other buildings are valued on a replacement cost basis. A survey of
building type and quality is undertaken by the MOR as part of reset-
tlement planning. That initial evaluation becomes the basis for
negotiating compensation with the owner of the building.
(d) If jobs are lost in nonagricultural enterprises as a result of land
acquisition, provincial regulations all require that those persons
losing jobs be found similar replacement jobs. Unemployment compen-
sation is provided until the new job begins.
4.        Those units responsible for resettlement face a number of con-
straints on their work. Primary among these is that all affected people are
expected to resettle within the boundaries of the current neighborhood or vil-
lage. If that proves impossible because too much land is lost within a given
village, either possible resettlement sites are broadened to include other
villages in the township or some or all villagers are converted from rural to
urban registration and their housing and employment becomes the responsibility
of the nearest urban place. Current plans call for all affected farmers to be
resettled on village lands, and no formal conversion from farm to nonfarm
residential status is anticipated.
Affected Population
5.        Fewer than 500 families will lose their houses to construction under
this project. Those families are dispersed along the lines, with no more than
15 families affected in any one site. The project files contain a family-by-
family census of housing lost to the project.
6.        No nonagricultural jobs will be lost to the project, but MOR has
calculated that approximately 4,600 people will need job resettlement due to
loss of agricultural land. It must be noted that this figure overstates job
loss by calculating the population dependent on the land, rather than those
actually farming it. The number of farmers affected will depend on the depen-
dency ratio in each location, but based on national averages should be about
2,780 people. Even this overstates the income and employment impact, for farm
families derive a decreasing percentage of their income from, and spend a
decreasing percentage of their time on, crop cultivation. In Henan and
Sichuan, the provinces most affected by the project, no more than half of the
typical farm family's net income derives from crop production. And farmers
affected by land loss would have allocated half or less of their labor to the
lost land. These factors mitigate, but do not negate, the impact of resettle-
ment on affected people.
Resettlement Plannina and ImDlementation
7.        Responsibility for planning and implementing resettlement rests with
city, county, township, and village governments and, for farming families, the
producers cooperative of which they are a part. The local Land Administration
Offices monitor resettlement and ensure compliance with the Land Management



- 131 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
Law. MOR is responsible for planning physical works in a manner that mini-
mizes resettlement and for paying compensation as required under the Land
Management Law. MOR compensation payments are channeled through the Land
Administration Offices. The State Audit Administration assumes audit respon-
sibility for disbursed funds.
8.        MOR negotiates compensation with each affected county, which negoti-
ates on behalf of all affected villages. Although the Land Management Law
sets standard multiples of crop output value by which to determine compensa-
tion, negotiation can occur over the measurement of crop output value and
whether the mandated goal of income maintenance can be attained on the basis
of standard compensation or requires additional compensation.
9.        Once county negotiations with MOR have been completed, the county in
turn allocates compensation among the affected individuals and villages. The
county typically sets a standard payment for assets of various types, and
individuals directly negotiate compensation for lost private assets, as do
village leaders for expropriated land. The village management committee plans
and implements resettlement using collective compensation funds, restricted by
guidelines designed to ensure their use for infrastructure development or
other investments that improve villager incomes or social welfare. The small
number of people to be resettled in any given village as a result of Railway
VI capacity expansion will be handled through these traditional planning mech-
anisms. Review of previous planning work by these agencies left the appraisal
mission confident of resettlement plan feasibility.
Resettlement Strategies
10.       The nature of the resettlement strategy adopted within any one
administrative unit depends fundamentally on the nature of displacement there.
In urban areas where individuals do not have land-based employment, the city
government replaces lost housing directly and enterprises are compensated for
lost assets and provided suitable sites for reconstructing needed buildings.
The principle for replacement housing is to provide new housing of equal or
higher quality and floor space. Enterprise managers losing buildings and
other assets have reconstruction plans that appeared feasible and expressed
satisfaction with proposed compensation for enterprise assets.
11.       Requisitioned agricultural land accounted for the bulk of displace-
ment and lost productive assets under Railways VI. The strategy for dealing
with such loss is to redistribute all agricultural land within the collective,
spreading the burden across the collective. This strategy minimizes the
impact on individual families, but collective leaders assert that it creates a
substantial political challenget the strategy of redistribution of all col-
lective land breaks every land contract in the village, not just those of
people whose contracted land is directly lost. Nonetheless, collective lead-
ers have in most cases decided that this strategy is preferable to one that
forces the shift of particular families into nonfarm employment. The strate-
gies for restoring the income lost from agricultural land are varied; they are
based either on increasing the productivity of the remaining land or on
strengthening or creating nonagricultural enterprises that will provide
employment for villagers while increasing the stream of village revenues.



- 132 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4
12.       Tentative agroements reached with the first counties to loae land to
the project have yielded very high compensation payments, totaling up to 18
times the gross output value of the land. Land acquisition negotiators met by
the appraisal mission estimate that in both the Beijing-Zhengzhou and Chengdu-
Kuunming lines, land comDensation will average about 14 times gross income and
not fall below 10 times aross. With the income net of purchased inputs from
cultivated land averaging about 68 percent of gross income for grain crops,
compensation will average 20 times net income. At those levels of compensa-
tion, villages will have available the following risk-free strategy: deposit
all resettlement funds in the local bank in term deposits, which now pay up to
8 percent per annum; withdraw part of the interest income annually to fully
compensate affected farmers for their income losses (the remaining interest
income is left on deposit to protect against inflation). The farmers vill
have the additional benefit of the time otherwise spent in crop production,
which can then be used for leisure or in pursuing other employment. The not
addition to local bank funds will increase loanable funds for the community,
which can then be used to further develop nonfarm enterpris.  If successful,
those enterprises will increase employment and earnings in the community.
This strategy is currently employed in villages in other projects with simi-
larly high compensation rates.
13.       Rural houses will be relocated all within the original village.
Compensation rates for houses were determined at replacement value, with the
owner having the right to salvage but also responsible for tearing down the
old house. A new housing site of equal size will be made available, with the
owner negotiating site selection with the village. The owner will be respon-
sible for constructing the new house and will have approximately four months
in which to do so. A sample of homeowners relocated under earlier railway
projects revealed a high level of satisfaction with the compensation and other
arrangements for new housing.2/
14.       Public assets such as roads, and telephone and power lines to be
rerouted, will be rebuilt by tho appropriate agency of local government. In
every case the displacement is minor and the new routes are expected to result
in minimal disruption of service and inconvenience to users. MOR has ear-
marked compensation sufficient to complete this work.
Budget and Timetable
15.       Based on preliminary budget projections, rosettlement costs will
total Y 61.7 million, or 1.7 percent of total capacity expansion costs. The
resettlement financing plan has been approved by SPC and is a part of the
overall project budget. On the Beijing-Zhengzhou line those costs will be
realized over the period 1992-94, and on Chengdu-Kunming during 1993-96 (see
Table 1). The resettlement timetable presents no extraordinary challenges,
for as noted in para. 5, the affected paople are dispersed along the line and
no one community will face the need to resettle more than 15 families in any
given year. MOR will pay all resettlement componsation to the local gov-rn-
ment in advance of resettlement, assuring availability of funds when needed.
2/   See project files.



- 133 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5
The State Audit Agency has assumed responsibility for monitoring the use of
resettlement funds. These costs vill be spread over the years 1992-96, as
indicated in Table 1. The resettlement financing plan has been approved by
SPC and is a part of the overall project budget.
Table 1: LAND REQUISITION, POPULATION RESETTLED, AND EXPENSE
Number of People resettled
Land     By land    By house             Resettlement
Timetable/             acquisition  acqui-   dismantling/              expense
railway line               (mu)      sition      removal    Total   (Y 1,000)
1992
Beijing-Zhengzhou         160.80       322           25        347     3,876.0
Chengdu-Kunming             0.00         0            0          0          0.0
Subtotal            160.80        322          25         347     3,876.0
1993
Beijing-Zhengzhou         266.20       540           18        558     6,315.0
Chengdu-Kunming           675.20     1,350        1,290      2,640    15,285.5
Subtotal            941.40      1.890       1.308       3,198    21.600.5
1994-96
Beijing-Zhengzhou         263.20       560           54        614     9,199.0
Chengdu-Kunming           927.61     1,856          695      2,551    26,976.6
Subtotal          1.190.81      2.416         749       3,165    36.175.6
Complete Proiect
Beijing-Zhengzhou         690.20     1,422           97      1,519    19,390.0
Chengdu-Kunming         1,602.81     3,206        1,985      5,191    42,262.1
Total             2.293.01      4,628       2.082       6 710    61.652.1
Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation
16.       The monitoring of progress in the resettlement program vill be
undertaken by the Social Sciences Research Institute (SSRI) of Southwest
Jiaotong University. The terms of reference for this work require, inter
alia, that: (i) the monitoring be conducted annually beginning in 1993
through such time as program objectives are achieved; (ii) monitoring will
include all major resettlement sites and vill utilize standard survey methods;
and (iii) in addition to indicators of progress in physical works (e.ge, land,



- 134 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6
housing, infrastructure, etc.), indicators selected for monitoring shall
include standard socioeconomic variables designed to measure the well-being of
the affected populations. Particular attention vill be paid to compensation
levels. At the *nd of each year of the project, SSRI will present a summary
report of their supervision to MOR and the World Bank. If SSRI's investiga-
tions find problems, SSRI vill discuss the solution vith the local government
and submit to MOR a report about handling of the problem. At the end of the
project, a report will be prepared aum-rizing the resettlement activities
under the project.



- 135 -
ANNEX 9
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Supervision Plan
T3flNG                            MAIK ACTIVITIIS                                   SMILLS REUQUIE              f
OCT./93    INITIAL REVIEW with paticular emphasis on:                           - Transport economics             12
-  Steps taken by borrowers concenming loan effectiveness          - Railway enginaring
-  Statu of equipment procuement                                   - Resettlem-
-  Statu of land acquisition and resetlement                       - Functional specialties
-  Status of ongoing tudiesTA and taining progrms
APR./94    SUPERVISION covering ovemal implemenotaon datus emphasizing:         - Railway engieerigw              11
-  Procurem of equipment                                           - Fuacial alwysi
-  Financial performance                                           - Procumset
-  Statu of sdies/TA and trining progms                            - Functional pecialti
-  Review of perfomance/monitoring indicators
OCT./94    REVIEW to facilitate implemenation of components with particular     - Railway engineering             10
emphasis on:                                                        - Res _lem
-  Idetfication of isue and agreement on actions to be taken       - Functional q aec;i
-  Statu of studiesvTA and trining progms
-  Reslement
APR./95    SUPERVISION coverng overall implementation twau emphasizing:         - Railway engineering             7
-  Procurement of equipment                                        - Fancial analysis
-  Finacial perfrmance                                             - Procurement
-  Stats of sdies/TA and tainin progrm                             - Functional specialties
-  Review of performance/monitoring indicator
OCT./95    REVIEW to facilitate implementation of components with particular    - Railway engineein               6
emphasis on:                                                        - Resealement
-  Identification of iues and agreement on actions to be taken     - Funotional speocti
-  Status of stiesTA and taining progrms
-  Resetlement
APR./96    SUPERVISION coverng oveall implementation stauts emphasizing:        - Railway engineering             6
-  Procurement of equipment                                        - Fwancial analysis
-  Fancial performance                                             - Procurement
- Review of performance/monitoring indicators
OCT./96    REVIEW to facilitate implementation of components                    - Railway engineering             5
- Functional pecialties
APR./97    SUPERVISION covering ovell implementtion sta                         - Railway engineering             5
- Funacial analysis
OCT./97    REVIEW to facilitate implemenbation of components                    - Railway enginei                 4
- Functional peciles
APR./9S    SUPERVISION covering overall implemontation status                   - Railway engineering              4
- Fiancial analysis
OCT./98    PROJECT COMPLETION SUPERVISION to review all aspects of the    - Tranrt economics                      10
project implementation and to aswec overal performance of the project  - Railway engineering
- Finncial analysis
- Functional specialties
TOTAL STAFF-WEKS                                                       so



- 136 -
Page 1
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Document. Available in Project Filo
1.   "Railway Electrification Overall Plan," Study Report, April 1992, "OR.
2.   "Study of Optimizing the Maintenance, Reliability, Availability, and
Utilization of Diesel Locomotives and Rolling Stock," Final Report on
Short-Term Tasks, March 1992, MOR.
3.   "Feasibility Report of Expanding Capacity in the Chengdu-Kunmling Railway
Line for the Proposed Sixth Railway Project from the World Bank," April
1992, MOR.
4.   "Feasibility Research Report on the Capacity Expansion of Beijing-
Zhengzhou Railway Line," April 1992, MOR.
5.   "Rail-Based Container Transport Study," Inception Report, March 1992,
MOR.
6.   "Rail-Based Container Transport Study," Immediate Action Plan, April
1992, MOR.
7.   China's Railway Strategy Paper, Green Cover Report No. 10592-CHA, June
1992.
8.   Railway Investment Study, Yellow Cover Report No. 10375-CHA, February
1992 (3 volumes).
9.  Aide-Memoire of an October 1991 Identification Mission (including attach-
ments) for Railways VI, with the following attachments:
A.   Outline of Railway Strategy Paper
B.   Trends of Railway Tariffs and Inflation
C.   Railway Accounting and Budgeting Procedures
D.   Railway Contract Responsibility System
E.   Implications of Railway Law
F.   Organizational, Staffing and Compensation Issues
G.   Draft Terms of Reference for Proposed Railway Tariff Study
H.   Preparation Requirements for Capacity Expansion Component
I.   Preparation Requirements for Track Maintenance Component
J.   Preparation Requirements for Equipment Repair Component
K.   Preparation Requirements for Telecommunications Component
L.   Preparation Requirements for Transport MIS Component
M.   Draft Inception Report for Rail-based Container Transport Study
N.  Maximum Technical Efficiency Railway in China
0.   Terms of Reference for Rail-based Container Transport Study



- 137 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
P.   Investment Cost Tables for Track Maintenance and Telecommunications
Components
Q.  List of Documents Required Before Arrival of Pro-appraisal Mission
R.   Background Information Required for Railway Strategy Paper
10. Aide-Memoirs of a March 1992 preappraisal mission for Railways VI.
11. Aide-Memoire of a July 1992 appraisal mission for Railways VI, with the
following annexest
1.   List of Background Papers
2.   Pilot Container Transport:  Status and Issues
3.   Key Implementation Dates
4.   Performance and Monitoring Indicators
5.   Terms of Reference for Railway Accounting Study
6.   Telecommunications Aspects
7.   Evaluation of Resettlement Plans for Railway Electrification:  Aide-
memoire of Resettlement Mission
8.   Conclusions of Traffic Forecasting Workshop
9.   Policy and Management Iniatives Through Training and Technical
Assistance: An Overview
12. Background Papers prepared by a March 1992 preappraisal misoion for
Railwvays VI.
No.  1:   Immediate Action Plan for Pilot Container Transport
No.  2:   Guidelines for Interim Report and Shippers Survey under Rail-
Based Container Transport Study
No.  3:   Suggestions for Lianyungang-Aratowpas Land Bridge
No.  4:   Customs Regulations for Container Movements in China
No.  5s   Findings from Field Trips under Rail-Based Container Transport
Study
No.  6:   Description of Management Training
No.  7:   Terms of Reference for Railway Tariff Reform Study
No.  8:   Implementing Performance and Monitoring Indicators for
Investment Components
No.  9:   Railway Telecommunications Development Plans
No. 10:   Transport Management Information System
No. 11s   Ranking of Capacity Expansion Projects
No. 12: Example of Resettlement Plan
No. 13: Observations and Recommendations Related to Speed Restrictions,
Track Maintenance and Safety Standards, and Line Capacity
Determination
No. 14:   Railway Container Tariff Structure
No. 15:   Key Information for Economic Evaluation of Investment
Components
No. 16:   Short-term Work Program for RIS Analysis
13. Background Papers prepared by a July 1992 appraisal mission:
No.  1:   Pilot Container Transport: Marketing and Shipper Survey



- 138 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3
No.  2:   Locomotive and Rolling Stock Maintenance and Technology
Transfer
No.  3:   Container Network Computer System
No.  4:   Economic Shadow Prices and Conversion Factors
No.  5:   Outline of Terms of Reference for Telecommunications Technical
Assistance
No.  6:   Hong Kong Rail Link with China
No.  7:   Outline of Resettlement Plan for Proposed Railways VI
No.  8:   Suggested Simplified Procedure for Rail Tariff Restructuring
No.  9:   Overview of Transport Management Information System (THIS)
No. 10:   Pilot Container Transport: Operations and Regulations
No. 11:   Indicated Policy Content of THIS
No. 12:   Railway Inspection Trip From Urumqi To Aratowpas
No. 13:   Rail-Based Container Transport Study:  Revised Schedule
14.  Background Data for and Results of Economic Evaluation Tables (for this
SAR).
15.  Supplemental Volume for Project Implementation (China's Sixth Railway
Project), February 1993.



Chart C.1 General Organization Chart of The Ministry of Railways
[  Minister
Security Bureau                                              Ba SeEretareat
Systems Reform Bureau                                 ForeiB a  Affairs Bureau
CHE NGINEER                 | VICE MINISTER |    IE MINISTER                             CHIEF          VICE MINISTERL VICE MINISTER 
Sc h Tech.          |  DIRECTOR OF                -PlaRling h Statistics                        Capital Construction                         Educstion Burau
Bureau                TRANSPORT                    Burau                                         Gener l BureauRvinretoc
mnFatance Bureau                  |        Design                Electrification            Bureau
-  Tranpon Eimau  abor   Wage BumaInstitutes                          -        Bureau                  Commissraq
Conmputcr                TrnpnBra                     ao      ae  ucu                                                                       Hospitals
Center                 Locomotive
;~~~~~~~~~ Bureau                                      Audit  Cmay                       Bureau
Transpon  Safety             11 Factoriea s                    Bridge                     Factory                 34 Locomotive &
Bureau                       [                              Construction               Construction                 Rolling Stock
Foreign Capital             Permanent Way                                                Butau                       Burmau                      Factries
hCTechnical               municatioBureau
(Tbe World  R          7 IC       I                                                           Engineering
Trjactoriea                                                                    Company
|Railway Signal                                                                                                        12 Regional
&BCommunicationu  |t                                                                                                  Admini Stration
|   Company  I                                                                                                  I                 I         Iop



Chart C.2 General Organization Chart of The Government of China
State Council
(Premier and V'ice Premiers)
State Operations and             Industrial Sectors             Coordinating                 Special-function
Production Office                                               Agencies                         Agencies        I
Ministry of Railways             State Planning               State Price Bureau
H   (MOR)    l       H   Commission (SPC)                    (SPB)
CoMinistryiof                Ministry of Finance           National Statistical
X  Communications  |    8         (MOF)        l      X         Bureau
Ministry of                                  1
Energy                    Ministry of Labor                Tax Bureau
2   Others    h      a    ~~~People's Bank   L           General Customs |
People's Bank                 Administration
S      ~~Others       h             State Audit    |
I         l l l     |  ~~~~~Administration
Others
Commerial      Arclde|          Bn of        Construction                          I
BrA&  cm=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



- 141 -
Chart C.3
Chart C.3 Schematic Diagram of Automatic
Long Distance Telephone Network
Yitulihe
Hailw         Suihua Jimusi
.Audanjian
iTaiyuan     Datong                 Qiqahaw
~~  -     Tonglano~ ~ ~ ~~Togh
__C                             i Beijing   g Zhuzhou             I oIahyejn  oTuo
\    / 9 ) / 4    _H) Shijiazhang    /     /      Jin~~~~~~~Fzhou ODln
Kulinng~~~~~~~ ~~~   ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~                  Jilint\~X hnu
Hanii                                                                            Dwki-g~~~~~aph
Xich\ a                                             nn  O                (|
LAnzhou~S/   iuzou                       C
Guang7hou
Legend
Q)Class 1. Ccntre (0 Class 2. Ccntre Q Class 3. Ccntre o Class 4. Centre 0 Included in this projcct
KSatellite staton to - Main route                Optical transmission line that to   __ - Overtlow route
,_.  be consinhcted                                 be installed under Railways Vl



Chart C.4 Data Communications Packet Switching Network
Urunmqi Sub. Admniu.                 Baotou                                                                                                       Hasbin
Ururnqi                                                         iher
/ \ D~~~~atong\  Yitulihe C  
/   \  S           y            X                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jisrnusi 
Baojl        /XTiya  unfen      s      v\                                       ubu\                           hlh
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~higyung                                                                To    I|\ hnghui Tuf/
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u.Adimini. i
t_J  Yinchuan                                           b AdmiFheni<               NedeS    ri  &bNede                Q  lelNode  rw
Gang                                                    itl            VUeRsbasIC



- 143 -
Chart C.5
Chart C. 5 Route Structure of Pilot
Container Transport Service
Harbin
Shenyang
Tianjin
BEIJING              6>
Jinan
Aratowpas                             Lianyungang
Aratowpas                                          
(x_)  Xian                                                                 Zheengzhou  *C
Wuhan.1
Legend
Daily Unit Train
Service as of Jan. I
Guangzhou                                 1995
.....                Expansion Plan Under
Consideration






IBRD 24576
~*    ELECTRIFIED LINES IN OPERATION                                       120          ,                         130
ELECTRIFIED LINES UNDER CONSTRUCTION               RUSSIAN            /HrN
|    SINGLE TRACK RAILWAY LINES                       FEDERATION                                                           H
-.--- 11 DOUBLE TRACK RAILWAY LINES                       F       T                   Mongoi                    RAILWAY  SYSTEM
DOUBLE TRACK RAILWAY LINES UNDER CONSTRUCTION                        )                                                     S
-- - : TRIPLE TRACTION                                                   M.,d.g.                          \
-=;t  DIESEL TRACTION                                                        /                                                            --
50               X      NATIONAL MARSHALLING YARDS                                                                           W,ydi,ng
O     REGIONAL MARSHALLING YARDS                                                                                                   nji-g
o     OTHER MAJOR MARSHALLING YARDS                        Mo       ;21ol  loni
PORTS                                                   I
RIVER PORTS                                            (-9gi
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                     h
BANK FUNDED PROJECTS
*  *  *  ELECTRIFICATION                                                      . >                TuHor    S00K..
_ _-  -RAILWAY LINES (PROPOSED PROJECT)                                                       n /njiov
RAILWAY LINES   ONGOING OR
*      FACTORIES        COMPLETED
*     TERMINALS       J PROJECT                                                                             ong   n
OECF FUNDED PROJECTS                                                                      T
* * *  ELECTRIFICATION                                                                                                           h
RAILWAY LINES
PROJECT TIMING
-.             ____  EIGHTH 5 YEAR PLAN PROJECT
........... LONG TERM PROJECT                                                                  i /                        PEOPLE'S                        0 
tH.hh.tJnn           Zh.ng       jioko..         ying   D.. -g;b      REP. OF KOREA
Y u m                         )         S h e n             m     u <       = ^   0             4   Dolio-~~sh...                REP. OF
>   fSYinchuen                  IRI    --a-4HUongs  I Shengli              /  n I                         KOREA
JAPAN
on      ngnG n                S eg    
MYANMAR      ~     ~ .    VET NA                              ZI~jio                                                     00   20 F0   400 _0 KILOMETER
Y_ngpingun    g uoio >._.
2O ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ fa    Ckn                                                  Southfo   Chn                        0ei 0 nh 8   l0 200        S      300ML
>~~~~~~~~Cq i7DXo                                                                  t.n gvHfInlifg                  C
_ir  g   /4Shimun  N                                B/  b. dtonbioo
DEM. REP.                                     4.                                               A.ero odJro LWohr...ng  r  Chong,h.  e . on
>    K9                                                                                curbhbngo Lndor
_        SLiuthou                  /       _     %~~~~~~~~~~Zonpi
MYANMAR -10        / VIET      NAM -                      lbonj;on9 0                                                 10,0 200 300 400 500 KILEER
20  I    2           -4Iouth China SeaFEBRUAR00     1009IL9E
yD v LAO PEOPLE'S    >               i2jHiaiou                                                            Thi; -p h. b-ppo  ebjTh. Werd8.4n   ff susd;fj.h
-^   DEM  R EP  - /   /                 ~~~~~~~~4,                                       Ah 'eonien; n  of r     ktr ene     A.hr   intl rolu- of Th. Worl
DEM  REP                  N                           '8e  Group. The deni.fni-oin uod and ih. bouneorior hown en thi-
THA LAN D    >   >   i         *                                                      mop ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d. nof inmpjr, on ^o pe.st of Th- Worf f8eek Group, ony j.dg.- t
THAILAND ~       ~                ,                                                                        on thglsh  f. antttfRey or myj *nd.eornnt o, ecepponc of
100-                                    |                                                                               _  12-. i-seburi
=                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEbRUARY 1993






IBRD 2381 7R
CHINA                                                                              RUSSIAN
RAILWAY BOTTLENECKS IN 1989                                                                                 FEDERATION 50
EXISTING RAILWAYS (RAILROADS):
-50          ONE WAY BOTTLENECKS
TWO WAY BOTTLENECKS                                     ailar
NO BOTTLENECKS                                  /
RAILWAY (RAILROAD) PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                   Jimusi
*    BOTTLENECK JUNCTION                                                                    Hairhbr i
O    TRAFFIC NODES                                                                        0Harbin
OTHER NODES                 MONGOLIA                  f
)    SEA PORTS                                                                              OJilin
t    RIVER PORTS                                                        Tnlo
COASTAL SHIPPING ROUTES                                                          0
RIVERS OR CANAL
-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES           j                                           O }  Shenyang 
/     -^) Jjnzhou   DEM. PEOPLE'S                 40"
Jining.  BEIJING                                   REP OF KOREA
i                                               Ct)  nhuangdao  ()Dandong
40q,  1B    I Baotou     Daiong                        O                                 J Sea of
-.              v           O                       C u  -\.  .~~~~~~~~~~Doon  .oaolion~  I            Japan
/  Shenmu Zhun OTianjin Xnt                                        REPUBLIC
0                oynal
Taiyuan                                                  OF KOREA
-Wuwei       Yinchuon              O         0 Dezhou
SO aZhongwei                            Jinan        O   0                                /
Xining                                   o a O                          ngdao
U    -                        0Honclan           ~~~0~siius     Yellow
oLanzhou          \    Linfen        .0     o             0 Liahigang   Sea                        JAPAN
- -   a                   0  Linnyujngana
00               Q0   aPeixion                            |
Baoii     0           Zhengzhbu ~'Xuzho I        rr,
/s0    Xlon             PO DCoCol .
0     0      J,ong    0Ni:Itong
0         o ,  O    O       HefeiC,    '4b t,0                                      30'p
Chengdu                    J,org                Wuhon                  O-Ninbo
a0~  OP   Zhicheng           Jiongjiu Qati
PChongqing                   Nanchang     0                                 Chinoa
%\_                          _}           a                 Yl~~~~       ~         ~       ~~~~~ngton  Chia
WenzhouSe
CrZhuzhou                   0
Huaihua                        oLuzhou j)
Guiyang                        o Hengyang                  oFuzhou
0Le An
Xiamen'
Kunming  -                         -              -e                   .Xime
JMYANMAR            .     .      ~       ^--.Meixion 
MYANMAR                                    Liuzhou        Longchuan0
GuangzhouO              0Shontou
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Nanning n 
l-_Honq Kong (UK)                                           20'
>               \v-                 -        . ~~~~~~~~~~Mqcc0o(Pbrt)
Dzhoniw,g     M                    KLOMETERS 0100 200 300 400 500
NAM                               2                              NML:eso    100   200    300
LAHaikou   South China Sea    hP    bbyf                               o Th Worldo
Ha kou  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~M  G,oo TN.                  .d ood ?h.            h.dd, lo
THAILAN   |   <  do nor  ly. onb. por of Th. Worled 0o-k G-a.n-y -
*oo tch boooor,NOM
O'  I 0/               \                    110                                           120
NOVEMBER 1 992



