Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23318
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35810)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$420 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
April 9, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.12
US$ 1.00 = Yuan 8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CETE          Cost-Effective Technology Evaluation
EIRR          Economic Internal Rate of Return
FCTIO         Foreign Capital and Technology Import Office
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOR           Ministry of Railways
NPV           Net Present Value
PSR           Project Status Report
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDPC          State Development and Plamning Commission
TMIS          Telecommunications and Traffic Management Information System
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, E-APVP
Country Manager/Director:   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director.  Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Richard Scurfield, TUDTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                12
6. Sustainability                                                                    13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                          28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 48
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 51
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   52
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               53
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003570                                     Project Name: RAILWAY VI
Team Leader: Richard G. Scurfield                       TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: April 12, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: RAILWAY VI                                   L/C/TFNumber: CPL-35810
Country/Department: CHINA                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TW - Railways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 09/23/91                                Effective: 07/14/93          07/14/93
Appraisal:  06/10/92                                MTR:
Approval:  03/25/93                              Closing. 06/30/99           06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                      Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:    Yukon Huang                              Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                      Daud Ahmad
Team Leader at ICR:  Richard G. Scurfield
ICR Primary Author:  Richard G. Scurfield
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project were to support the Ministry of Railways' efforts in undertaking: (a)
railway policy and management reform initiatives; (b) institutional development of the railway system; (c)
expansion of railway capacity; and (d) modernization of railway technology on a system-wide basis.



This project was one in a series. There were five national railway projects before this project and there
have been two since. The first went to the Board in 1984 and the most recent on January 29, 2002. Hence,
the Bank has developed a long term relationship with the Ministry of Railways and with individuals within
that organization. Given this special relationship, the Bank has been able to establish an extended dialogue
with MOR about reform, starting with the design of the foundations (pre-Railway VI), laying the
foundations with Railway VI, and only very recently seeing the superstructure beginning to appear (post
Railway VI).
The specific objectives of this project were ambitious and reflect the desire of the Bank to expand the scope
of the Bank's railway program in China beyond the financing of physical improvement, expansion of the
railway system, and some rather ineffectual studies. It is more difficult to tell if these objectives were
really shared by MOR at the time of project preparation. Discussions held in the mid-90s did not suggest
that even then there was significant ownership of the reform elements of the project's agenda. However,
fortuitously, the appetite for reform grew significantly during the latter half of the decade, because of
pressure from the highest levels of government. Since, this project provides some of the essential building
blocks for reform, it is concluded that the project objectives were well chosen and timely.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during the life of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included seven components which are listed in the table and then each is briefly described
below.
Component           Total Cost               Bank Loan
(US$ million)           (US$ million)
At Appraisal   Actual    At Appraisal   Actual
Capacity Expansion.
Beijing-Zhengzhou Line       366.4       518.5       112.0        101.6
Chengdu to Kunming Line       407.2       597.1         90.0        60.5
Track Maintenance(l)        48.0       103.3         48.7        95.2
Locomotives and Rolling Stock      25.4        20.6         22.0         17.6
Telecommunications and TMIS        272.5       194.7        120.0       102.7
Pilot Container Transport      54.3        31.0         19.0        20.0
Policy and Technical Assistance      9.7         8.1          9.2         7.5
TOTAL         1,183.5     1473.3        420.0       405.1
Note. (i) The scope of this component is larger than originally envisaged. See Section 3.4 below, Revised
Components.
Capacity Expansion. The project included the electrification of two sections of railway. For this
component, the project financed equipment for electrification, signalling and communications. The two
sections of railway were:
Beijing-Zhengzhou line. This section of line is part of the heavily used Beijing-Guangzhou corridor
and is also one of China's most severely "bottle-necked" railway sections. It had previously been
double tracked.
-2 -



Chengdu-Kunming line. This is one of the main railway lines in southwest China, connecting Sichuan
and Yunnan provinces. The line passes through mountains reaching 2,800 m above sea level. It is only
a single track line but the costs of doubling it are considered prohibitive given the difficult terrain.
Track Maintenance. The main purpose of this system-wide sub-component was to assist MOR in
modernizing the previous track maintenance system, which was largely manual, into a fully mechanized
system of preventive and planned maintenance. This sub-component included the procurement of two types
of material: (i) equipment to facilitate routine track rehabilitation and track maintenance (ii) heavy-duty,
high-performance track maintenance machines; special calibration devices and track inspection cars; and a
computerized track monitoring system. It was based on a short-term action plan prepared under the
Railway V project to modernize MOR's track maintenance.
Locomotive and Rolling Stock Manufacturing. The main objective of this systemwide sub-component
was the introduction of modem machine tools for manufacturing critical parts for both locomotives and
rolling stock and included a technology transfer component. This subcomponent incorporates some of the
highest-priority items recommended in a study, prepared under Railways V, to improve the manufacturing
and maintenance of MOR's fleet of locomotives and rolling stock.
Telecommunications and Traffic Management Information System (TMIS). The objectives of this
systemwide subcomponent were: (i) to support expansion and modernization of MOR's telecommunications
network, in accordance with the Master Plan developed under the Railway V project; (ii) to implement
Phase I of a computerized TMIS, thereby automating MOR's wagon operations on a systemwide basis; and
(iii) to strengthen MORs information technology capabilities through human resource development. This
subcomponent represents an initial phase of MOR's long-term effort to upgrade its railway information
technology so as to increase the flow of vital information for decision-making, and to make railway
operations more efficient so as to meet better the needs of both shippers and passengers.
Pilot Container Transport Modernization. The main purpose of this subcomponent was to demonstrate
the operational and economic feasibility of a frequent and regularly scheduled container transport service.
The other objectives were: (i) to encourage MOR to shift priority from domestic cargo to international
cargo; (ii) to upgrade container handling equipment and container rolling stock; (iii) to modernize container
operations by eliminating damage-prone hump-yard operations and minimizing the number of stations to
be served; and (iv) to strengthen the institutional capability in the marketing and handling of international
cargo.
Policy Components and Technical Assistance. The policy component comprised four subcomponents or
studies which supported MOR's initiatives to improve: (i) investment planning; (ii) tariff structures; (iii)
accounting system; and (iv) the design management and economic contracts between government and the
railway. The TA component specifically financed three studies for a: Rail-Based Container Transport
Study; Cost-Effective Technology Evaluation (CETE) Study; and an Environmental Protection Study.
These were designed to prepare action plans for the implementation of systemwide improvements and
modernization, for possible implementation under future railway projects.
Assessment. The project met the capabilities of MOR. However, this project was a veritable "christmas
tree" which proved difficult and expensive to implement. As discussed in the remaining sections of this
report, it becomes clear that it would have been preferable to restrict the number of components to those
with really high economic and policy impact.
-3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
There were accrued savings of approximately $45 million. The majority were due to lower than expected
equipment prices. In particular, the international prices for telecommunications and electronic equipment
decreased substantially between the appraisal and implementation. Following the receipt of a request from
MOF, in May 1999, Bank management approved the use loan savings to purchase additional heavy duty
track maintenance machines.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was well prepared. In addition to the SAR, a supplementary report was produced at the time of
appraisal and circulated to the Board. This contained 25 Working Papers which detailed the individual
components of the projects. However, despite this attention to detail it is noted that the implementation of
some components, most noticeably the telecommunications component, was delayed substantially.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcomes are discussed below by objective.
(i) To provide assistance for the government's policy initiatives. This project included several studies
designed to support the reform of China railways, specifically for investment planning, tariff
rationalization, and accounting. The project also included a series of self-managed studies to help MOR
with the development of management and economic contracts, focused on the following topics: (a)
enhancement of the economic contracting system between MOR and the Government; (b) improvement of
the productivity and quality of the railway transport function; (c) expansion of the scope of railway
financial resource mobilization; (d) possible divestiture of non-railway functions and restructuring of the
railway transport function; (e) development and rationalization of railway human resources; and, (f)
railway housing reform.
Outcome. This objective of the project has been achieved. There was extensive discussion and debate
of all the related issues during the life of this project. Furthermore, particularly since 1999, China has
actually taken a number of important steps to reform its railway system so as to meet the needs of the
market economy. In the Outline of the Tenth Five-Years Plan For National Economic And Social
Development (Approved by the Fourth Session of the Ninth National People's Congress on March 15,
2001), it is stated that the purpose of the government is "To accelerate the reform of transportation
management system and operation mechanisms with the core focus on the separation of the
governmentfunctions and the enterprisefunctions, railways will "separate infrastructurefrom
transport operations".
(ii) To support institutional development of the railway system. The project also financed a series of
studies to support institutional reforrn including those for accounting, housing reform, and human resources
development.
Outcome. This objective has been achieved, even if it is difficult to identify the "direct impacts" of our
interventions. Over the last decade, substantial institutional reforns have taken place within MOR.
At the beginning of the last decade the Ministry employed about 3.4 million people, or about one-third
of all the rail employees in the world. As is common in planned economies, about half of these
employees were engaged in a vast range of social, industrial and commercial activities outside the rail
- 4 -



operational sphere. However, recently, all these non-railway activities have been fornally "separated"
from MOR and currently the Ministry now claims only 1.5 million employees.
Also, within China Railways, many changes have already taken place. By the emerging definition,
MOR is the "government" and the administrations, sub-administrations and the MOR level industrial
functions are the "railway enterprises", which now have substantial operational autonomy. Officially,
in 1999, the central staff of MOR was cut from 809 to 400, and the number of departments and
divisions has been cut by 30 to 40 percent. In fact, many of the staff were transferred to new
"organizations" such as the Centralized Railway Transport Commanding (dispatching) Center and the
Railway Construction Management Center which will provide centralized services but whose
employees will not be "government" employees. Within the administrations, the Passenger Transport
Enterprises and Freight Transport Enterprises are being established to provide the rail services within
their respective territories.
(iii) To support the expansion of railway capacity. The project financed the electrification of two
railway lines, and the installation of new signalling and communications equipment, between Beijing and
Zhengzhou and Chengdu and Kunming. When assessing the outcomes of these two sub-components, it is
necessary to take into account that, since the appraisal of this project, China railways has been subject to a
major shift in its traffic mix-passenger volumes have assumed greater significance than before.
Specifically, following several years of decline, railway passenger volumes have been growing in absolute
terms. Compared with 1996, for example, railway passenger kilometers in 2000 were up by 36.3 percent.
Reflecting these increases, the railway share of total passenger traffic (all modes) rose from 35.5 percent in
1998 to 36.6 percent in 1999 and to 37.0 percent in 2000. At the same time, railway freight traffic has not
expanded as rapidly. Since 1996, railway freight ton kilometers are up by just 7.2 percent - or only about
a fifth as much as the passenger increase. As a consequence, the railway share of total freight traffic has
declined from 35.6 percent in 1996 to 31.3 percent in 2000. See Annex 3 for more details.
Outcome. The Beijing-Zhengzhou sub-component was completed and commissioned at the end of
1998. At the time of appraisal the different segments of the Beijing-Zhengzhou line carried between 50
to 67 pairs of freight trains per day and 29 to 39 pairs of passenger trains per day. In 2000, there were
29 freight and 56 passenger train pairs per day. For a passenger train, the average travel time has
decreased from 13 hours 53 minutes to 10 hours and 30 minutes.
In sum, while the number of passenger trains has increased, the number of freight trains has actually
decreased. In part, this change is due to the national traffic trends discussed above. However, it also
reflects a change, since appraisal, of the dispatch philosophy for the trains operating in this corridor,
and specifically the split of the traffic between this line and the Beijing-Kowloon line. After this latter,
a new line was completed in 1997, MOR decided to concentrate a greater proportion of the freight
traffic on it. Hence, while the SAR projected substantial increases for both freight and passenger
traffic, MOR's latest estimates suggest that only passenger volumes will increase substantially in the
coming years. Freight traffic will increase only moderately. On balance, however the usefulness of
the project investments is still assured with a rate of return in excess of 20%.
- 5 -



The implementation of the Chengdu-Kunming sub-component was delayed by about three years. The
delay was caused by non-availability of electric power and the time taken for land acquisition,
particularly in Kunming and Chengdu. The Chengdu-Panzihua, (764 km, North section) and
Panzihua-Kunrming, (347 kin) were eventually commissioned at the end of December 1999 and October
2000 respectively. In 1992, different segments of the line carried 12 to 13 pairs of freight trains per
day and 2 to 7 pairs of passenger trains per day. It has increased to 16-18 pairs per day and 5-9 pairs
per day respectively. For a passenger train, the average travel time has decreased from 20 hours 50
minutes to 19 hours and 20 minutes. The maximum load on each freight train has increased to 3,800
tons (with two locomotives) from 3,000 tons. In the SAR, it was assumed that freight and passenger
volumes also would rise at similar rates, 108 percent and 122 percent respectively between 1992 and
2005 as compared to the most recent estimates of 20% and 54%, respectively. These lower than
expected increases, particularly for freight, mean that the project rate of return is rather less than
previously projected but still satisfactory, at about 20%.
(iv) To support the modernization of railway technology on a system-wide basis. This project
supported the introduction of a number of new technologies for China Railways. These included:
*   A modem telecommunications system
* A Traffic Management Information System (TMIS)
* Equipment to support the introduction of mechanized track maintenance
* Improved manufacturing equipment for rolling stock and locomotives
* Equipment for the piloting of modem container transport services
Outcome. The overall impact of these interventions was positive although the impact of some
components is not so easy to assess directly.
The TMIS is undoubtedly the most valuable component of this project when measured against its
importance for railway reform. Also, the introduction of a modem telecommunications system was a
prerequisite for the implementation of the traffic management information system. After 10 years of
development, MOR now has the ability to manage its railway system on a real time basis--to track the
movement of all its freight wagons, track shipments through the system, track revenues and has a
modem train dispatch capability.
The introduction of modem mechanized track maintenance procedures has also had a very significant
impact. This has allowed MOR to speed-up its services and compete more effectively with other
modes of transport. MOR have implemented three changes to the national timetable over the last two
years, with the objective of speeding up passenger services. It is not so clear that the subcomponents
for manufacturing and containers were nearly as useful. Both were implemented as planned but their
direct impact is not apparent. The introduction of the new equipment was accompanied by only limited
reform of the enterprises. There is still only reluctant recognition of the importance of railway based
container services, even though the number of containers carried by the railways has increased
significantly over the last decade, from 45,000 TEU year in 1992 to over 2 million per year in 2001.
- 6 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
Capacity Expansion. The outputs for the two related components is as follows:
Output. Construction of the Beijing-Zhengzhou line was completed and the line opened to electrified
services in 1998. Cost of this sub-component was 42% more (in terms of US$) than budgeted at the
time of appraisal even though the Bank financed equipment cost less than expected. The reasons for
this increase are fairly clear. Between 1991 and 1997 accumulative domestic inflation was about 78%.
This is off-set in part by an effective devaluation of about 50% on 1 January 1994. However, the net
result is that domestic inflation accounts for a large part of the cost increase.
The opening of the electrified Chengdu-Kunming line was delayed by about three years for three
reasons: shortage of local funds, non-availability of electric power, and the time taken for land
acquisition, particularly in Kunming and Chengdu. The section from Chengdu to Panzihua, (764 km,
North section) and from Panzihua to Kunming, (347 kIn, called South section) were actually
commissioned at the end of December 1999 and October 2000 respectively. The cost of this
sub-component was 47% more than budgeted (in terms of US$) at the time of appraisal even though
the Bank financed equipment cost less than expected. Major reasons for this increase are domestic
inflation, as noted above, and increased land acquisition costs.
Implementation of safeguards. Up until the end of 1998, implementation of both the resetflement and
environmental policies of the Bank was not satisfactory. This resulted in the project being rated as
unsatisfactory against these criteria in the PSRs. However, the performance of the project improved
sufficiently to allow these items to be rated satisfactory in 1999. The basic difficulty was, and is, that
direct responsibility for the implementation of environmental and resettlement policies rests with
provincial and local government entities wholly independent of MOR. In other words, the Bank's main
interlocutor has no direct involvement in implementing either activity.
Resettlement activities for the Zhengzhou-Beijing line were completed in 1998 with no significant
issues outstanding. However, contract disputes with municipal officials regarding land acquisition
impeded implementation along much of the Chengdu-Kunming line until 1999. Hence, it is not
coincidental that the FCTIO appointed a resettlement coordinator in 1999. This marked a major change
in attitude within MOR to the implementation of the Bank's safeguard policies. While FCTIO continues
to assert (correctly) that it cannot fully control the actions of local governments actually responsible for
land acquisition and resettlement implementation, the resettlement coordinator has played a useful role
in facilitating joint planning with local officials and in resolving many of the issues that surfaced. It is
fair to say that following this action, the quality of implementation of resettlement activities associated
with all on-going railway projects has improved and is now generally acceptable. Nonetheless, given
the poor start, some aspects of resettlement implementation associated with the Chengdu line remained
unsatisfactory when the loan closed. In particular, some displaced persons in Panzhihua will continue
to require subsidies for living expenses until more permanent income-generating opportunities are
provided to them. This issue will require continued Bank supervision even though the project is now
closed.
With respect to environment, it must be understood that when the project was processed in 1991/92,
the Bank's Safeguard policies were still in early stages of development. However, by the mid-90s the
environmental requirements in the Bank and in China had strengthened and MOR was under pressure
-7-



to comply with and implement more stringent environmental measures. Earlier, in January 1994, the
Labor and Health Institute of MOR in Beijing had prepared an EIA for the line (in Chinese). The EIA
had identified noise as a major issue along the Anyang - Zhenzhou corridor and identified one school,
five dormitories, six office buildings and four living quarters which were susceptible to railways
generated noise.
Although there were early hiccups in timely implementation of environmental mitigation measures
related to noise, wastewater treatment and electrical interference to TV signals, MOR and the local
Administrations, to their credit, had implemented most of the mitigation measures. At the Zhengzhou
No. I Railway School (Railway Middle School of Zhengzhou), the construction of a noise barrier had
profound impact on the reduction of noise in the classrooms (by an average of 10.4 dBA) and rendering
all classrooms facing the rail useable. At other locations along the Anyang - Zhengzhou corridors,
noise mitigation measures have included construction of fences to stop pedestrians from crossing the
rail tracks, resulting in fewer train whistles; installation of heavy duty welded rails; a 10m wide by I
km long greenbelt at Kunming Rail Station; installation of double glazed windows; monetary
compensation, etc. A number of wastewater treatment plants have been constructed (Anyang, South
Xinxiang and North Zhengzhou Locomotive Turnaround Points) and in most cases the treated
wastewater is being recycled. Where electrical lines interfere with TV reception, MOR has
provided/promoted communal cable or dish antennae to reduce impact on the communities. Boilers are
being converted from buming coal into burning gas
More importantly, MOR, with the local Admninistrations, has embarked on a long-term environrnental
program to shut down old boilers and convert others from coal to gas. A large number of wastewater
treatment facilities and hospital medical waste management facilities are under construction by the
local Administration with assistance from MOR. At critical locations, MOR is also installing
nickel-cadmium treatment plants to combat heavy metal pollution. MOR attributes these measures to
long-term strategy outlined in the "China Rail Environmental Protection Management Plan - An
AgendaforAction: 1996-2010"
Track Maintenance. A full list of the equipment purchased through the project is provided by the client
in section 9 of this report. This list includes additional equipment which was purchased out of savings from
the loan.
Output. The component has been very successful and appreciated by MOR. It is a component with
high client ownership, as demonstrated by the enthusiasm for purchasing additional equipment of a
simiilar nature. It has allowed them to mechanize maintenance, make moderate reductions in the labor
force, reduce track closure times, and improve maintenance quality, as shown by the indicators listed in
Annex 1.
Locomotive and Rolling Stock Parts Manufacture. The equipment purchased through this project is
being used for the manufacturing of (i) connecting rods, electric rotating equipment governors, injection
pumps and nozzles, and turbo superchargers, for diesel locomotives; (ii) brake cylinder equipment and
wheel sets, for freight wagons; and (iii) spot welding equipment for passenger coaches. A second objective
of this subcomponent was to finance the foreign exchange cost (estimated at $880,000) of transferring
modem technology for (i) designing and manufacturing airbrakes (including the empty/load box); and (ii)
casting equipment part. Only the first of these two-components was implemented. MOR chose to use their
own funds for the other sub-component, working with a foreign joint venture partner.
-8-



Output. The equipment was installed in six factories then owned by MOR in Meishan, Nankou,
Shenyang, Changchun, Tianjian and Qishuyan--formally all now operate independently from MOR.
The performance indicators listed in Annex 1 suggest the component was worthwhile. Locomotive
reliability has improved.
Telecommunications and Transport Management Information System (TMIS). The
telecommunications equipment procured included telephone switching equipment, fiber optic cable, a digital
data communication network, video conference facilities at 12 locations, telecommunication equipment for
local use at stations and yards at six locations, test and measuring equipment and radio dispatch equipment.
For the TMIS component the project financed mainframe computers, yard computers and terminal.
Output. The procurement of the telecommunications equipment was seriously delayed and
problematic with the rebidding of some contracts proving necessary in 1998. However, by 1999, the
problems had been overcome and this sub-component was "back on track". The new systems are
greatly valued by railway staff.
In contrast, the implementation of the TMIS component proceeded according to schedule. During the
course of the project MOR decided to build a dedicated computer center on the site of their
headquarters in Beijing and this is where the bulk of the equipment purchased under this project was
installed Other related equipment has been purchased under the Railway VII project. The system is
now "up and running". Each of the administrations is connected to the center by a high-speed data
transmission connection which allows for real-time updates of the data-bases.
The managers of this system also greatly benefited from the technical assistance provided through this
project. They have a very clear understanding of the importance of what they are doing and how to do
it. Under the National Railway Project, MOR will prepare a feasibility study for development of an
even more sophisticated management tool. This will integrate the TMIS with their current costing
system and network evaluation model, RIS, both of which were also developed through previous Bank
projects.
Pilot Container Transport Modernization. This subcomponent financed the purchase of rubber-mounted
gantry cranes, top lifters, tractor-trailers, ISO containers, flat cars, other equipment and technical
assistance. The design of this sub-component was based on a recommended action plan developed through
the Rail-Based Container Transport study.
Output. This component was implemented in accord with the SAR but there has been no change in the
institutional structure of the operating agency.
Policy Components. The policy component comprises four studies which supported MOR's initiatives to
improve (i) investment planning; (ii) tariff rationalization; (iii) its accounting systems; and (iv) the quality
and content of the management and economic contracts between the railway and government. The project
also included training equipment for a new international training center being created within MOR.
Investment planning. The development of a computer based transport planning model, RIS, was
initiated in 1989 using a PHRD grant and the results were available to the team that prepared the
1992 Sector Report--China Railway Strategy. The activities funded under this project were
designed to strengthen the functionality of the model. The activity was completed in 1997,
somewhat later than envisaged in the SAR. Most importantly, recent discussions with MOR
-9-



confmed that the model is still in use and is being improved by MOR and its consultants.
Specifically, MOR used this model to evaluate and rank investment options for inclusion in the
10th Five Year Plan. Furthermore, a TA activity funded through the National Railway Project will
examine the feasibility of integrating this model with their costing model and TMIS, thus providing
senior management with an advanced management tool for system planning.
Tariff rationalization. This study was completed in accord with the SAR. However, since MOR
does not set fares--they are set by SDPC--it has had only limited impact.
Accounting study. This study was completed by one of the major international accounting
companies. Also, MOR claim that it was of some value. However, given that national accounting
standards are established by MOF, it is not clear that it gave "value for money".
Management and Economic contracts. The purpose of this group of studies was to help MOR
understand how they should re-organize their business. Each of the studies was "driven" from within the
Ministry and each followed a common pattern. They were initiated with a foreign study tour to gather
information on the current practice in advanced market based economies. Following the study tours, the
teams analyzed MOR's problems and prepared a report. All the studies began in the summer of 1993, and
all were completed by the end of July 1995. The main value of these studies was that they acted as internal
discussion for MOR staff, of a variety of reform issues. The following studies were included under this
heading.
Government-railway relationship. This study examined all aspects of the
govemment/railways relationship. It provided a useful forum for discussion of some of the
basic issues associated with change.
Diversified economy. The creation of diversified industries to absorb surplus labor is a
common practice in China. This practice is a mixed blessing as it diverts the attention of
managers from their core businesses. This apparent conflict was evident in the studies'
recommendations which in the Bank's view were not very useful.
Railway resource mobilization. The TOR for this study was changed after the project
was approved. It was to have looked at how to enlarge the role of the private sector within
the railways in China. However, MOR changed the TOR so they could study how they
could establish a "Railway Bank". The World Bank only reluctantly agreed to this change.
The Railway Bank was created but there is still only limited involvement by the private
sector in the railway operations in China.
Labor productivity. This study allowed MOR staff to consider the basic issues associated
with improving labor-productivity. There have been some reductions in the labor-force in
recent years. However, there is much left to do if manning levels are to be reduced to
levels comparable with railways in the advanced market economies. This remains one of
the major challenges for the railways in China, given that labor costs will inevitably
increase over time.
Human resource development This study was moderately useful. It allowed MOR to
examine the issues related to the reform of their organization and development of their
human resources so that they are better able to meet the challenges of operating in a
market based organization.
- 10 -



Housing reform. This study had some value as a vehicle for allowing MOR to think
through the issues associated with housing reform. However, it was premature. The
Central Government announced a national policy for housing reform only in the late '90s
and until then MOR had no authority to implement changes to the existing policies.
Technical Assistance
The TA component provided technical assistance and training for MOR to carry out three major studies,
plus other activities. The three studies were a Rail-Based Container Transport Study, a study of
Cost-Effective Technology Evaluation (CETE), and an Environmental Protection Study. Each was
designed to prepare action plans for possible implementation under future railway projects. The first two
studies have received funding of $300,000 each from the Japan Grant Facility, and the third study received
UNDP funding of $200,000, and only $400,000 was covered by the proposed loan.
Four other smaller activities were also included in the loan: (i) a small investigation to be conducted by
MOR staff to adapt technology for steel-wheel casting from abroad; (ii) technical assistance and training
program designed to provide MOR staff with state-of-the-art knowledge and skills in telecomnmunication;
(iii) a technical assistance program for preparing computerized container information systems to support
the pilot container operation; and (iv) a technical assistance program for adapting and testing TMIS
software, and an extensive training program for MOR personnel on how to operate TMIS (in more than
1,000 locations).
Rail Based Container Study. This study, and the related investment, has had little obvious
impact. The study was completed. However, container operations within MOR are still operated
much as before and no separate and commercial "line of business" organization has been
established to manage these functions.
Cost-Effective Technology Evaluation. Two topics were studied in-depth, (i) raising the axle
load to 25 tons from the current limit of 20 tons, and (ii) the appropriate technologies to use for the
proposed high-speed passenger line from Shanghai to Beijing. These were two contrasting themes.
The first was purely technical and was influential. The design axle load has been raised for many
lines and MOR have continued to make good use of the studies of appropriate technology for the
high speed passenger line. The second study had very obvious political dimensions given the
limited number of international suppliers that could supply the equipment. In this latter case the
Bank was able to help MOR make a balanced assessment of the options. The activity was
organized as an integrated series of reports, seminars and field trips for MOR staff supported by
an array of international experts.



Environmental Protection Study. This study was completed in February 1998 and its direct
impact is uncertain, although China Railways is now much more cognizant of its environmental
responsibilities. The final product was entitled China Rail Environment Protection Management
Plan. An Agendafor Action 1996-2010. It included sections on environmental management,
pollution control during construction, pollution control from existing sources, recycling and reuse
of waste resources, implementation of clean production technologies, and research and
development. The Bank provided comments on the document. However, while we know from our
supervision missions that MOR is now tackling environment problems much more vigorously, we
have no way of knowing how much impact this study has had or how influential it was in
advancing the institution's policies and practices. It is likely, however, that it did assist the staff of
MOR as they sought to implement more restrictive national standards.
Miscellaneous activities. The investigation of wheel-casting technology was not completed.
However, the smaller TA components for telecommunications was completed, the proposed
container tracking system has been developed as part of the TMIS and the TMIS training activities
were completed.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
For the purposes of preparing this report, the project team only undertook an economic reevaluation of the
Capacity Expansion subcomponent of the Sixth China Railway project. Specifically, these include the
electrification and modemization of (a) the 694 km double-track Beijing-Zhengzhou line and (b) the
1,094-km single-track Chengdu-Kumning route. Based on the analyses that follow, the reevaluation
concludes that based on a discount rate of 12 percent the economic rate of return (EIRR) for the
Beijing-Zhengzhou project is equal to 21.9 percent -- slightly higher than the 19.8 percent figure reported in
the SAR. For the Chengdu-Kunming component, the economic rate of return calculated here (using the
same 12 percent discount rate) is 15.1 percent, lower than the 28.7 percent derived in the SAR. See Annex
3 for more details.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated
4.5 Institutional development impact:
While it is not always clear how the Bank has influenced individual decisions about reform within MOR,
the overall impact of our involvement has been very positive. Our advice is frequently sought on railway
reform related issues. Over the last few years a number of high level meetings have been held between
Bank staff and the Minister and Vice-Ministers of Railway to discuss these issues. Also, given the high
irnpact of some of the specific project components, in particular the TMIS and track maintenance, it is
clear that this project is having an important and continuing impact on how the railways in China are
operated and managed.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The completion of the works was delayed in both Chengdu and Kunming because of MOR's inability to
reach agreement with the local governments about land acquisition. Also, the timely availability of power
to this line proved a problem despite assurances given by SDPC at appraisal.
- 12-



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
On the positive side, State Council determined that MOR should reform to meet the needs of a market
economy. This forced MOR to make good use of the policy and institutional components included in this
project. However, some of the broad reform issues which are under the control of other ministries, such as
housing policy and tariffs have still not been fully resolved at the national level. This has meant that the
related studies financed under this project have had little or no impact at present but they could still be
useful when reform takes place.
More parochially, the central procurement agencies lengthened the time required to prepare bid packages
and evaluate bid-evaluation reports. This is a persistent problem in China and not a project specific issue.
It is also highlighted in the current Country Procurement Assessment Review for China.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The most serious project problem has been the implementation of the associated resettlement activities.
These problems continued for many years. It was only at the tail-end of the project implementation period,
in 1999, that MOR took action to appoint a resettlement coordinator in the FCTIO. However, it is
acknowledged that since this happened these issues have been handled much more effectively by MOR in
all the on-going railway projects.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The overall cost of the project increased by 25% (in US$ terms). As noted above, these increases were
exclusively due to increases in the costs of the capacity expansion works. The cost of the Beijing to
Zhengzhou line increased by 42% and the Chengdu to Kunming line by 47%, due to domestic inflation.
However, the overall cost of the Bank financed activities was slightly lower than expected. All equipment
components yielded savings except track maintenance, the scope of which was increased.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The physical implementation of most projects in China is rarely in doubt. This project is no exception.
The two capacity expansion components were completed as expected even if one of them took rather longer
to complete than originally anticipated. MOR also knows how to use their physical assets effectively. The
smaller components were also implemented satisfactorily and are generally being used effectively. Some,
such as the TMIS, are now at the center of MOR's reform efforts.
The overall thrust of the policy and institutional programs supported by this project are very likely to be
sustained. With the strong encouragement of the State Council, MOR is changing the way China Railways
operates. It is adjusting to the needs of a mnarket economy and "back-tracking" is unlikely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was implemented by a working railway. Most of the components had a degree of ownership by
a part of the organization and are being used effectively. The container component is perhaps an exception.
However, even then, the number of containers carried each year by the railways has increased dramatically
since appraisal given the increasing importance of container traffic in China.
- 13 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank managed project preparation efficiently and effectively, and with the active participation of the
client. However, in responding to reported pressures from senior management to provide a worthwhile
policy framework, the task manager developed an overly complex project Several of the components seem
to have had either marginal impact, for example the manufacturing component, or very limited ownership
by the client, for example the container component. Also, some of the many studies financed by the project
have had only limited impact, either because of a lack of ownership, for example containers, or were in
areas of reform over which MOR had no direct control, for example, accounting and housing reform.
7.2 Supervision:
In the early years of implementation of this project, the Bank put extensive resources into the preparation of
the project. Each component was supervised very diligently. However, once the major studies were
completed in the mid-90s the Bank's attention to these issues waned for several years, with a revival in late
1997. However, since 1999 the Bank has not had to force the client to address reform issues. The
motivation for further discussions on these issues has come from within MOR. The most obvious
manifestation is the two day meeting which the Bank's Railway Advisor had with the Minister of Railways
himself-an almost unheard of event in the Chinese context.
A QAG review of "supervision quality and safeguard oversight" in 2000 rated the quality of supervision as
"marginally satisfactory" because of a lack of attention to the policy components, and inadequate attention
to safeguards in the early years of the project. The reviewers considered that the Bank team was too
patient with MOR as efforts were made to correct issues related to safeguards, and made overly optimistic
assessments of project performance. While the report recognized that supervision quality had improved
recently, it was very critical of the quality of reporting between 1995 and 1997.
It could be argued that, over the whole life of the project, supervision was satisfactory given the
satisfactory project outcomes. However, conservatively, given that there are residual resettlement
problems, project supervision is rated as unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory, despite the lack of attention to the implementation
of some of the policy components in the "middle years" of the project. The project has generally achieved
its objectives and the physical components have all been implemented. More significantly, a decade after
the Bank began preparing the project, MOR is now very serious about reform and some of the tools
developed through this project are key to that effort, especially the TMIS.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
MOR worked very closely with the Bank during the preparation of the project. For each of the policies and
studies, working groups were established to support the preparation of the study TORs.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
No other agency apart from MOR had a significant role in the implementation of this project.
- 14 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, MOR implemented this project satisfactorily. However, there were some significant procurement
delays and perhaps of even greater concern is the lack of recognition of the importance of safeguard issues
during the early years of project implementation. The legacy of this early lack of attention is still with us
since there are some residual resettlement issues associated with the Chengdu to Kunming line which must
still be addressed.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, MOR's performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
On balance, this was a successful project. As noted previously, the physical investment components were
implemented successfully and some of these are proving to be enormously influential as catalysts of
change. Of particular note is the influence the project had on the design and implementation of the Traffic
Management Infornation System. This system is proving to be one of the key tools for railway
restructuring and reform. It came "to life" through this project. Other components such as the track
maintenance component have also been highly beneficial. Also some of the institutional components, such
as the further development of the RIS model and the CETE studies have had important impacts. However,
some of the components were much less valuable. Hence, it is likely that this project could have had a
similar impact with fewer components. There are four important lessons.
Firstly, if the Bank expects to influence reform and change, it must make a long term commitment, and
build a long-term relationship with its client agencies. Genuine railway reform takes time in most countries
(as it also did in the US and Europe). We began working in China in the early 80s, sent the first railway
project to the Board in 1984, initiated the preparation of this project and the related discussions about
reform in 1991, but reform only began to occur in 1999. This is the sixth national railway project in China
and the first completion report in which we can honestly report progress in the area of railway reform. The
previous five had only sketched out the layout of the foundations for the reform effort.
Secondly, we should never lose sight of the fact that factors well beyond the scope of this project can be
major determinants of project success, or failure. If China's economy had faltered or the political
developments had been otherwise, then China could have easily shelved railway reform and the policy
impact of the project would have been minimal, however much money we had invested in supervising it.
The third lesson relates to the excessive complexity of the project. "Christmas trees" are expensive when
too well decorated! If a very large project has many investment and institutional development components,
they will be expensive for both the Bank and our clients to manage and supervise. A project must examine
the costs and benefits of each ornament at the inception stage. There were three categories of components
which this project could have done without:
(i) The first group of components are those over which MOR has little or no policy influence and
where the potential change agents were not in the Ministry of Railways. The accounting, housing and
tariff rationalization studies are examples of these types of components. MOF is responsible for the
first, State Council for the second, and SDPC for the third. However, it may be too early to discount
the potential for positive impacts in the future.
- 15-



(ii) The second group consists of those components which have had limited "value-added" and do not
support the core railway business. The most obvious case is the manufacturing component.
(iii) The last group consists of those which MOR clearly did not want and which have served little
purpose. The most obvious example is the container component. While the Bank and MOR now
belatedly share the belief that the development of container transport services is important for China,
even now we do not share a vision about how to provide them. MOR are still providing these services
through a department within its own organization rather than establishing a commercial line of business
operation. The mistakes embedded in this project were also built into the later Railway VII project
which included an ill-fated container component which was subsequently cancelled.
The final lesson relates to safeguards. It is essential that the client fully appreciates the importance and
value of the Bank's safeguard policies at the inception of the project. However, in this case, the Bank
aggravated the problem by continually "raising the bar".
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1. Capacity Expansion Component:
1.1 Outcome/Achievement of Objective:
1.1.1 Beijing-Zhengzhou Line:
This double-tracked section of line is part of the heavily used Beijing-Guangzhou Line. It passes through
an econornically important area in the north central region of China. It carries both freight and passengers
between Huabei, Dongbei area and Zhongnan, Huanan, Xinan, Xibei area, at relatively high intensities.
The electrification of this line relieved the congested conditions of railway transport form north to south of
China, and accelerated the economic development of the areas along the line. It also reduced the pollution
to the environment, and enforced the sustainable energy strategy of China. Meanwhile, it reduced the
transportation cost of railway enterprises.
The overall perfonnance rating of the project is 100%, and good-quality rating is more than 90%, with
excellent safety during construction and no significant operating accidents even though construction
continued along busy existing lines for long periods. The technical standards used were suitable and the
overall planning and design rational. The overall evaluation of the design and quality is very satisfactory.
The project represents a great improvement in the scientific and technological standards. In respect of
communication, signal, power and so on, a large amount of advanced technologies and equipment have
been imported, which accelerated the research and development of the best domestic equipment and the
modernization of China' electrified railway system.
To increase the loadings of the trains and to speed-up transportation and reduce waste, some matching
projects were implemented at the same time as the electrification: the sidetracks of stations have been
expanded 1500 m; at grade crossings have been changed into flyovers; new high-speed switches have
replaced the old ones.
- 16 -



While electrifying the busy main line, the problem of managing the interference between construction and
running trains has been managed well. This experience can be applied during the electrification of other
busy main lines in the future.
The environmental protection measures introduced at the Zhengzhou Railway No. 1 Middle School were
important and were highly praised by the School.. Also, tests were made on a 24-hour basis to monitor
noise levels at sensitive spots before and after construction, according to the requests of MOR and the
World Bank.
1.1.2 Chengdu-Kunming Line:
The improvements along this line included the following:
*   After completion of the project, all receiving and departure tracks of stations have been expanded
from 650 m to 850 m, the 50 kg tracks of main line have been changed into 60 kg rail, and the 43
kg tracks of departure tracks have been changed into 50 kg rails. All the tracks of this line were
continuously welded which will allow for increases in speed along this line.
*   The signal equipment along this line (north section) have been interlocked together and more
powerful electric/hydraulic switches introduced to ensure the safe transportation.
* Optical fiber communication and wireless networks have been provided alongside the line.
* The technologies and equipment for the overhead electric system were imported from France, and
those of traction substations were imported from Japan, both using advanced technology, and will
ensure the reliability of traction power supply.
*   The wiring for the signalling and power supply have been updated, which ensures the safety and
reliability of signals, and power supply and also creates favorable conditions for any increase of
power supply.
*   After electrification, the efficiency of the locomotive depots have reached the highest domestic
standards.
*   In 19 stations along the line, the passenger waiting rooms have been updated, which offers safer
and more comfortable conditions for passengers.
In 1999, the converted tumover of this line (north section) was: up-direction 8.981 billion ton/kIn;
down-direction 4.649 bil.ton/lkm. From January to October 2001: up-direction 8.056 bil.ton/km;
down-direction 4.046 bil.ton/km. The passengers originated in 1999: 5.16 million. Form Jan. to Oct.
2001: 4.29 mil.ton/km. Freight originated in 1999: 8.76 rnil. ton; freight delivered in 1999: 9.88 mil.ton.
Form Jan. to Oct. 2001: Freight originated 8.02 mil. ton; freight delivered 9.20 mil. ton. Density of goods
flow in 1999: up-direction 11.97 mil.ton; down-direction 6.24 mil.ton. Form Jan. to Oct. 2001:
up-direction 10.87 mil.ton; down-direction 5.38 mil.ton. Density of passenger wagons: form 27 pairs to
37 pairs. The operating speed rose form 30 km/h to 80 km/h.
- 17-



1.2 Sustainability
Both the Beijing-Zhengzhou Line and Chengdu-Kunming line are main railway lines in the network of the
Chinese Railways. With the rapid economic development of areas along the two lines, the demand for
freight and passenger transportation rose quickly. In the future, not only the local volume but also the
through volume of freight and passenger transportation will increase steadily.
In the "Tenth Five Plan", it is planned to increase the speed of passenger trains. The proposed
improvements will include, adjustment of the curves, strengthening and stabilizing the contact system, and
reinforcement of bridges. Through the increase in operating speed, the runmning time of the project lines will
shortened, so as to satisfy passengers' demand for rapid and convenient transportation.
The two projects were implemented while these busy lines continued in operation. The coordination of
design, implementation, and construction and the high consciousness of the need to maintain quality were
all very important. Advanced and reliable technologies and methods were adopted to ensure the principle
of "first, safety; second, quality; third, speed". There were no accidents during the implementation of the
project.
Under the direct help of experts form the Bank, the environmental protection has assisted the objective of
sustainability.
All the staff had been trained to use the new equipment and new technologies.
All the imported equipment included the required spare parts for more than 2 years of operations.
1.3 The Reasons for Increase of Investments
1.3.1 Beijing-Zhengzhou Line:
The Beijing-Zhengzhou Railway Line was an important project in national "Eighth Five Plan". In the 1993
Staff Appraisal Report of the World Bank, the overall estimated budget of this project was $366 millions,
of which $112 million was to be provided by the Bank. The actual investment is $518 million , including
$102 million from the Bank.
It is more than 10 years since the start of the project the actual costs of the investment have increased. The
main reasons lay in the rapid development of new technologies, change of technical policies, the national
transformation from a planned to a market economy, and rising commodity prices due to domestic inflation.
1.3.2 Chengdu-Kunming Line:
*   According to the records from MOR, the overall budget of this project was 5.702 billion RNMB, 3.252
billion RUB higher than the initial estimate (2.45 billion RMB). The following are the main reasons:
i. An increase of 1.224 billion RMB is due to the difference of cormmodity prices: the initial overall budget
was prepared in 1991. With the rapid development of Chinese economy, because of the national
transformation from a planned economy to a market economy, prices increased rapidly. For example, from
1991 to 1997, the price of cement increased from 180 RMB/ton to 360 RMB/ton, and that of rolled steel,
1200 RMB/ton to 3400 RMB/ton.
- 18-



ii. The initial overall budget was compiled on the basis of Tiejian No. 36 [1991] (an official paper from
MOR). With the continuous evolution of Chinese reform, the Additional Regulation of the Budgetary
Compiling Method of National Railway Foundation Construction Project, Tiejian No. 55 [1997] was
published subsequently. This changed the basis for the calculating the costs and led to an increase of 178
mil. RMB.
iii. Furthermore, part of increase of investment (176 million RMB) was for land expropriation. The local
economy along the line developed quickly, and the number of buildings rose quickly between the initial
investigation to implementation of this project. To protect the benefits of people resettled, and ensure their
living standards, the cost of this item had to be increased.
iv. Chinese loan regulations were changed. The project used a loan from the National Development Bank,
which resulted in additional interest of 349 million RMB.
v. Other additional project items, included:
a. Chengdu Xihuan Center line: to accelerate local economic development and make Chengkun Line more
efficient, a line connecting Chengkun Line and Baocheng Line was added. Cost increased: 274 million
RMB. This included the Chengdu West Goods Yard.
*   b. To perfect the quality of freight transportation and package and parcel service, improve the level of
service and working conditions of staff, and protect passengers' safety, four passenger and freight
transportation facilities were added to the project, which caused additional investment of 98 million
RMB.
*   c. To improve the operational characteristics of the line, some facilities (such as bridge, culvert, tunnel
and so on) had improved, which caused additional investment of 133 million RMB.
d. To ensure the quality of potable water, the water supply facilities of Yangang, Nanchangnan has been
improved, which caused additional investment of 19 million RMB.
e. The cost of using foreign funds, which resulted in a cost increase of 102 million RMB.
f. To ensure the maintenance of this line, new quarries were built, which caused additional investment of 20
million. RMB.
g. To solve the problem of that the down-direction train started from Xichangnan Station crossed the entry
and exit line of depot, a new down-direction connection line was built. This required additional investment
of 142 million RMB.
h. To improve operation conditions, protect the environment, some additional works were added, which
resulted in additional investment of 512 million RMB.
- 19-



1.4 Lessons Learned
1.4.1 Beijing-Zhengzhou Line:
For a variety reasons, (such as the change of technical policies, actual market conditions, the quick
development of new technology, and insufficient up-front preparation), implementation time for Jingzheng
project was a little longer than expected. Also, the cost estimates had to be adjusted several times.
Following completion of the Zhengzhou to Wuhan electrification project, the electrification project for the
Beijing to Zhengzhou line was one of the first construction projects in which the heavy load technology
have been regarded as technical policy for a railway with higher operating speeds. But there were no
suitable technical standards, specifications and mature domestic equipment and this caused delays. Some
of the electrification equipment which it was planned to use originally were not considered suitable for
higher speed railway operations.
Furthermore, the locomotive signal equipment (TVM-300), imported in 1994-1995, has not been installed.
The reason is TVM-300 is not only unsuitable to the data interface of the locomotive monitoring equipment
currently in use, but also not satisfactory for a higher-speed railway. The equipment has been in storage
for 6-7 years, and the electronic components have aging.
1.4.2 Chengdu-Kunming Line:
One of the most important principles of ICB procurement has caused some difficulties--specifically that the
bidder with lowest evaluated price wins the bid. In practice, some bidders reduced the price of their bids
(even lower than the price of materials) in order to win, but could not carry out the contract or provide the
quality of goods specified. This factor influenced the project.implementation time for the project.
The bidding documents were compiled according to the initial design in 1993, but the installation and
commissioning took place in 1998-1999. So the specification, type, and quantity of equipment imported
were not always in accord with actual needs, which caused supplemental procurement, and some surplus
procurement, and influenced the implementation time of the project (waiting for the installation and
commnissioning of additional equipment procured)
The "Three Same Time Project", which means "waitingfor the approval, design at the same time, and
construction at the same time", accelerates the infrastructure investment and project input, but because of
the differences between initial design, bidding documents and construction design, the specification, type,
and quantity of equipment imported were not in accordance with actual need, which caused supplemental
procurement, and surplus, and influenced the actual implementation time.
1.5 Land Expropriation and Environmental Protection
1.5.1 Land Expropriation:
The land expropriation work of Chengkun Line was monitored by Southwest Jiaotong University from
1993. Meanwhile, the resettlement experts from the World Bank guided and checked the work annually.
In 1999, the delegation of the Bank came to Chengkun Line and checked the resettlement conditions, which
it then thought satisfied the Bank's requirements.
- 20 -



The land expropriation work of Chengkun Line involved in 19 cities and counties along this line. Up to
Dec. 2000, 1604 mu land was expropriated, and more than 60,000 square meter of housing were
demolished. These activities were managed by the local governments. There were three methods for
compensating the affected persons: 1. Redistribution of land; 2. Providing alternative development sites: for
example, in cooperation with local government, the Xichangnan Shang District was built to accommodate
the affected persons; 3. Cash compensation. The basic assumption of this method was that all who
accepted these payments would be volunteers.
Beijing-Zhengzhou line was open in 1998. Because of the serious attention of MOR and local
governments, the land expropriation work was fulfilled on time. All the people affected were resettled and
compensated, and both they and local government were satisfied.
Through the above-mentioned policies, the production and living standards of the families affected had been
well taken care of and their living conditions were much better than before. Most of them were satisfied
with their new houses. In respect of arrangement of production, some people got new land, or were found
work after getting compensation. Their incomes generally increased after this arrangement. After getting
the compensation for land expropriation, the villages used the money to improve the welfare of their
villagers, or to improve the conditions for cultivation.
1.5.2 Environmental Protection
Most of the Chengdu to Kunming line passes through a mountainous areas, thus the protection of
environment and vegetation was very important. During construction, the slopes have been stabilized, and
some additional afforestation took place along the line. Some additional protection has also been included
for the trees that have been transplanted during construction.
In E'mei and Xichang locomotive and rolling depot, the discharge of wastewater and waste oil has been
managed more effectively.
Using electric trains, compared with diesel ones, eliminated C02 in tunnels.
Th noise protection measures implemented for the Zhengzhou Railway No. 1 Middle School were much
appreciated
2. Track Maintenance Component:
From 1993-2000, the Engineering & Maintenance equipment procured through the China Railway VI
project included: Insulated Joint and Technology, 1500 sets; Track Stretcher, 20 sets; Longitudinal Power
Determiner, 2 sets; Ballast Cleaner, 6 sets; 08-32 Damping Machine, 18 sets; 09-32 Damping Machine, 9
sets; 08-475 Damping Machine, 7 sets; Stabilizer, 14 sets; Ballast Regulator, 10 sets; Rail Grinder, 1 set;
Rail Welder, 1 set; Inspection Equipment for Large Maintenance Equipment, 3 sets; Demarcating
Equipment of Rail Inspection Car, 1 set; Maintenance component of Rail Inspection Car, I set;
Demarcating Equipment of Rail Detector Car, 1 set; Computer Auxiliary Design Station, 4 sets; Computer
Management System, 1 set, utilizing totally foreign loan 96.5317 mil. USD, and domestic fund 8.086 mil.
USD. The operational results of using this equipment achieved or surpassed the predictions at the outset of
the project.
After the completion of the Railway VI project, there are in total 8 overhaul teams, 26 maintenance teams,
and four switch tamping teams. The teams can over-haul 16,000 km of line, maintain 23,400 km of line,
and 7200 switches, which ensures more efficient overhaul and maintenance of a significant part of the main
- 21 -



lines in China, especially benefiting efforts to increase operating speeds. With the large maintenance
equipment, 26 maintenance teams reduce the closed time by about 10,400 hours per year; the interval
between overhauls is improved from 7 years to 10 years; and, 8 overhaul teams reduce the closed time
about 1,200 hours per year. Meanwhile, the using of large maintenance equipment reduces the labor
intensity of works and makes them more consistent.
Rail Grinders can cover about 600 km of rail per year, expanding the life of the tracks by about 1.5 times,
improving the quality of railway transport, and improving the quality of service for passengers. Rail
Detector Cars can cover detection about 6000 track km per year on average, and detect about 80% of rail
flaws, which raises efficiency and improves the safety of transportation.
With the new track strengthening technologies imported using this foreign loan, the length of the sections of
railway line which are jointless has been extended greatly. The lengths of the sections ofjointless track
vary from 2 km to 144 km. The total length of jointless track now exceeds 10,473 km, which satisfies the
target set in the feasibility report.
A data bank management system was created, which can provide many types of reports, statistics, figures
and drawings, compile lay-out plans and drawings, and prepare bridge drawings. Flood damage
management systems and flood control management system have also been created. Based on the static and
dynamic data bank, track maintenance management, plans and forecasting sub-systems were created. With
the data collected by inspection equipment, such as the Track Inspection Car, it has been possible to
develop statistical models to estimate the deterioration and damage of track components and usable life of
tracks can be predicted, and appropriate maintenance plans can be compiled. The computer system can
collect, transport, store and handle information accurately, and can provide condition and decision making
information on a timely basis. The scientific management of engineering and maintenance department, and
rational allocation of funds, materials, and labor can be achieved steadily, which can reduce investment
needs, maintain in better condition equipment, and ensure the safety of transportation.
The Railway VI Project has played an important role in the improvement of the engineering and
maintenance activities of China Railway. Due to the great benefits from this component, the govenmuent
has developed an additional program for engineering and maintenance work during "Tenth Five Plan". We
hope that special arrangement can be supported by the World Bank.
3. Locomotives and Rolling Stocks
3.1 Project Background
Prior to the Railway VI project, MOR had used earlier loans from the World Bank to improve the
performance of locomotives, freight cars and passenger cars and to improve their design. Through the
Railway VI project, MOR imported equipment to improve the quality of production of key components so
as to improve reliability and extend the life of selected components. MOR's factories that benefited from the
project, included Tianjin Locomotive and Rolling Stock Machinery Factory, Beijing Nankou Locomotive
and Rolling Stock Machinery Factory, Shenyang Locomotive and Rolling Stock Works, Changchun
Passenger Car Works, Meishan Locomotive and Rolling Stock Works and Qishuyan Locomotive and
Rolling Stock Works.
- 22 -



3.2 The Usage of Equipment
a. Changchun Passenger Car Works procured a spot welding machine for use when constructing
stainless-steel wagons. Unfortunately, initially the machine could not be used normally, because of a
shortage of auxiliary equipment. Fortunately, this machine could still be used to help staff learn about spot
welding technology and how to choose the correct technical parameters. Now, this machine is used in a key
segment of passenger wagon production line.
b. Three axis control internal grinding machines and a digital control lathe were procured by Beijing
Nankou Locomotive and Rolling Stock Machinery Factory. They were put into operation without
significant problems. The digital lathe is used to drill inner holes, and chamfering of oil sprinklers. With
its self-diagnosis function, this machine can work in two positions simultaneously, which improves the
speed of operation and improves reliability and the expected working life.
c. The equipment procured by the Shenyang Locomotive and Rolling Stock Works is mainly used to
examine wheel axles. With this equipment, the production rate and repair quality have very obviously
improved, and the number of wheel pairs repaired has increased from 150-160 per day (in 1997) to 200 per
day.
d. In Tianjin Locomotive and Rolling Stock Machinery Factory, the funds were used to purchase a honing
machine and horizontal processing center. These machines are used for producing sliding valves, micro
moving cylinders and some other high-accuracy components. A CNC cold spring coiling machine was also
purchased and is used to produce 240 types of piston springs and other unusual springs.
e. The equipment procured by Meishan Locomotive and Rolling Stock Works are mainly used to improve
the efficiency and quality of the brake systems.
f. The equipment procured by Qishuyan Locomotive and Rolling Stock Works is mainly used in the testing
of 410 traction motors and 3000 main power generators, so as to raise the quality of motor repairing and
checking. It is estimated that the use of this equipment will reduce the economic loss to MOR by about 8
mil. RMB.
3.3 Result of Project
From the above analysis, it is clear that the original objectives of the Railway VI Loan have been fulfilled,
playing an active role in the improvement of the quality of products, efficiency, technologies and lowering
the cost of railway operations. There were some problems with respect to some components-some
equipment can not be used fully or is left unused. The reasons are:
1) the types of equipment purchased were not always suitable
2) the change of agents for particular manufacturers is frequent and the after-sales service is
unsatisfactory.
3) to import of spare-parts takes too long and is expensive, which increases the cost of use and
maintenance of the equipment.
- 23 -



4. Telecommunication and TMIS
4.1 Telecommunication:
4.1.1 General:
This sub-component included the telephone switching network, transmission network, data
telecomrnunication network, satellite communication network, microwave transmission network and
conference telephone network. Through the construction and commissioning of these networks, the
performance of the telecommunication network of China Railways was significantly improved. It now
meets the needs of a modem railway system and is reliable enough to meet the needs of modem railway
dispatching, passenger ticket reservation system, TMIS (Traffic Management Information System) and
DMIS (Dispatch Management Information System).
4.1.2 China Railways Communication Network Study
(l)Background to the project
In support of China's economic reform policies and using the support offered by the World Bank, the
Chinese Ministry of Railways has been making great efforts to improve railway communication network
over the last decade. By the end of 1996, the total length of the optical cables was over 15, 000 kilometers.
This provided digitized connections from the Ministry of Railway to all the railway bureaus and digitized
connections between the railway bureaus and 75% of the railway subsections with the total number of
digital switches reaching 700,000 units. The first phase of the packet-digital switching network covering all
14-railway bureaus has been put into operation. The first video-conferencing facilities have been
constructed using optical and satellite connections.
(2)Preparation of Inception Report
In accordance with a contract between the Ministry of Railway and America AT& T Solution, the project
included 5 sub-items: network optimization, clock synchronization, No.7 signaling, teleconmnunication
management network, and the provision of access networks. The project was divided into three parts,
beginning in 1997 and ending in 1999. In 1997, experts from AT&T made a field survey and conducted
research, discussed with China's experts a working outline and report framework, listed key technologies
for each sub-item, held discussions with railway communications departments, and completed some initial
studies with China's experts. In 1998, China technology experts went to America AT&T Bell Lab and the
AT&T network operation department so as to get to learn about America's telecommunication networks,
and studied the key technologies in collaboration with AT&T Bell Labs, completed key sections of the
report, and provided a final report to the senior management of the Ministry of Railway. In 1999-2000,
additional training was provided for communications personnel within the Ministry of Railway, network
optimization software was installed and network management technology experiments were undertaken.
- 24 -



(3)Application
The recommendations of the Inception Report have been applied in the railway communications' projects in
recent years.
i. Network optimization
A transmission network was implemented using a SDH technical system and network hierarchic structure,
composed of trunks, local relay networks and user access networks. The allocation and protection of
networks adopted self-healing ring DXC protection and select modes, which have been widely used in the
construction of main trunks of railway communications networks, with a total length of 30,000 kilometers.
The structure of telephony networks had been optimized from 6 ways to 4 ways (2 ways respectively for
long distance and local, reducing the need for nodes, thus facilitating unified management and software
development). At present, the total capacity of the telephony networks constructed in this way has exceeded
10 million lines.
ii. User access networks
Adopting optical access mode, using local central nodes as concentration points, taking advantage of
railway stations as network elements, adopting V.5 digital interfaces to connect switches and meeting basic
station-sections' digitalization requirements, the access network, at present, boasts of the total length of
over 10,000 kilometers.
iii. Clock synchronization networks
The inception report recommended changing the previous master-slave synchronization mode between the
railway clock synchronization networks and ground clock infornation transmission to the current
synchronization networks featuring combination of GPS clock and ground clock. The railway networks
synchronized in this way have been constructed to support 1 master clock (caesium clock + GPS) and 60
slave clock (Gallium Clock + GPS), addressing all service networks requirements for clock.
iv. No.7 Signaling networks
The TA report recommended changing the previous 3-leveled signaling networks organized through the
independent signaling transition equipment which were all set up in pair for path stations and substations
(different nodes set up in one city) to the current 3-level or 2-level hybrid signaling networks structure set
up in part of the path stations and substations (one pair of equipment are set up in 510 cities). Currently, 6
pairs of HSTP have been installed, and A and B surfaces have been organized, to support voice services as
well as other value-added services.
v. Telecommunication management networks
In the previous plan, the telecommunication management networks set up two-level management centers,
the Ministry of Railway and Railway Bureaus. Now, it has been changed to set up one management center,
that is the Ministry of Railway, enabling centralized dispatching and full-network management.
- 25 -



In accordance with the inception report, the Ministry of Railway has implemented the first phase of the
railway telecommunication management network (transmission fault management system TFMS, network
management data transmission system DCN), and established a long distance railway switching network
management system (fault management section). Meanwhile, it is undertaking the preliminary preparation
works for the network management project with the Railway 7 loan. According to the feasibility report,
railway communications have network management system, introduced sub network management system
(SNMS, e.g. Lucent ITM-NM , MARCONI MV 38), and implemented full-network and unified circuit
management for the transmission equipment from the same vendors.
(4) Conclusion
It can be concluded that some valuable instructive suggestions had been brought forward in the technical
assistance report and adopted, with remarkably beneficial effects.
4.2 TMIS:
4.2.1 Execution of project
(1) TMIS Central Processing System
The procurement of TMIS central processing system started in 1994. The Borrower published the
procurement notice in the newspaper and held the bid opening on May 31 and August 1, 1994 respectivelv.
The evaluation lasted for more than 2 years. In August 1996, the World Bank approved the proposal. Two
large sets of IBM main system for TMIS arrived on site in 1996. The installation of the hardware and
software was completed in December 1996. At the beginning of 1997, the system was tested. Since April 1,
1997, it has been formally operating on a 24-hour basis. Up to now, the operated main projects for Central
system are as follows:
(a) The first phase of the project for the dispatching system for the Ministry and Bureau was put into
operation in July 2000. Manual operations have been stopped totally after adopting the new system.
(b) The automatic recognition system for wagon number began tests on a trial basis on March 1, 2001.
This system is an important tool for tracking freight wagons. At present, the number of freight wagon,
the locomotive number, the freight wagon number and other information can be identified and
confirmed in real time at the request of the owning administration and records are kept in the central
data base of TMIS.
(c) The container tracking system was put into operation fully on March 1, 2001. This system provides
real time information about the location of each container. This not only raises the efficiency of
management of the containers, but also allows the owners of cargo to check the location of their
shipments.
(d) The actual report information system has been fully implemented. This system has fully replaced
the old telecommunication sending and receiving system. In most branch bureaus, the effective
reporting rate is 100%.
- 26 -



(e) The application of ticket & freight waybill analysis system. Currently, this system provides a
information data base for the Ministry, the railway administration and sub railway administration.
When fully developed this system provide information a full set of transport and finance statistics for
each administration.
Judging from the results of the operation of Central system, the resources of system satisfied the
requirements of MOR. The equipment procured is in good working condition. IBM gives satisfactory
technical support and provides good quality service.
4.2.2 Consultant's service for the central system
CANAC, Canada was awarded the contract for the consulting services associated with the development of
the central system. It provided these services between March 1994 to July 1998. The TMIS system was
designed to meet the special needs of China Railways with the help of the staff from CANAC. The
achievements of MOR and CANAC were as follows:
*   Design of the TIvUS system, after studying the TRACS system in depth and analyzing the needs of
Chinese Railways;
*   Completing the modifications of the TRACS system;
*   Building interfaces with the communication network;
*   Building the required data-bases and developing application software;
*   On-line testing, in 1997, of the TMIS central system and the interface with the station system
information,
*   The implementation of a pilot was held in the Shanghai Railway Administration in 1998.
*   Based on the above experience, the software of TMIS Central System has been made amended,
improved and the functions enlarged.
*   The tracking and information systems for freight wagons and container has been set up and put
into operation in 1999.
The current system has a major problem because of the fact that the basic unit for the information is the
station. The TMIS center system adopted the original 80 row input format for TRACS. This is different
from the information exchange format for train formation schedule. Hence, the information about the train
composition has to be transmitted twice, once for sub-administration, and then to the center mainframe
IBM/ES9000 via the server in the sub-administrations. Therefore, the information is transmitted repeatedly
and there is congestion on the network. On the other hand, the way that the basic station and depot is
reported to the center was inefficient and does not ensure that reports were timely, complete and accurate.
So, the method of collecting the information for center system will be changed. The information will be
reported from the sub-administration, to the railway administrations and then on to MOR, instead of getting
reports from the stations directly. The required 80-row format of TRACS system will be generated in MOR
and entered into the TMIS central mainframe.
- 27 -



4.2.3 Procurement of small machines in container station and UPS
The project procured UPS (Uninterrupted Power Supply) equipment which was installed and utilized in
selected container stations. Performance was generally good but in a few stations less than satisfactory.
The stations where the machines perform satisfactorily are the following: Guanganmen, Fuzhoudong,
Yantai; The stations with fairly good performance of main machine are following stations: Manzhouli,
Binjiangxi, Nanjingxi, Lanzhoubei, Tongliao, Dalianbei, Siping; The stations with worse performance are:
Liuzhounan, Shenzhenbei, Alashankou.
There were some technical problems. Also, in some cases, the end-users do not have confidence in the
performance and stability of locally manufactured machines. Further, the time required for bidding is long
and tedious, which is not suitable for technologies development of IT. Finally, the guarantee time for the
equipment should be expanded, and the technical training should be strengthened. However, despite these
difficulties the usage of the UPS is good.
4.2.4 Conclusions:
In a word, the TMIS components in the Railway VI project have been implemented satisfactorily. Through
competitive bidding, MOR got low priced goods. Furthermore, MOR imported advanced technologies,
trained many railway computer skilled staff, and improved the whole level of our technological teams. Due
to the complicated processing for procurement and the length of time this took, there were problems. The
technology for IT develops very fast and it is inappropriate to spend one or two years preparing the bid
documents, bidding and then taking delivery of the goods. During this time the design of the equipment
changes very fast so MOR would like to propose that faster procurement procedures should be introduced.
5. Pilot Container Transport Component:
This component initiated the modernization of China Railways container transportation. It included to
purchase the standard containers, flat wagons dedicated to container transport and some of advanced
container loading/unloading equipment and monitoring system.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None to add
- 28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatoriMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
CAPACITY EXPANSION COMPONENTS. See text and economic evaluation            See text and economic evaluation
TRACK MAINTENANCE COMPONENT.
Number of locations that exceed       51 (in 1992)                         24 (in 2000)
emergency repair values per 1 00km of track.
LOCOMOTIVE & ROLLING STOCK            (In 1991)                            (In 2000)
COMPONENT.
DF4 looDmotives Upgraded              0                                    550
Wagon Upgraded                        0                                     22,000
Ineffectives(%)
DF4 locomotives                      11.0                                  7.0
Wagons(in comercial use only)        3.2                                   2.2
Availability (%)                      89.0                                  94
DF4 locomotives                      78.6                                  80
Reliability (%)                       99.6                                  99.7
DF4 locomotives                      9.
Absolute ReliabUity
(failures/l 00,000 bco-km)           2.75                                  1.8
DF4 locomotives
Productivity (km/day)                 478                                  495
DF4 locomotives
TELECOM AND TMIS COMPONENT.
TELECOM:                              (In 1998)                             (In 1999)
Transit Switch Cap. (trunks)          230,000                               300,000
Local Switch Cap. (000 lines)         1,500                                 1,500
Connected Subscribers (000)           1,050                                 1,100
O.F. Tran. Syst. 140Mb/s (km)         8,110                                 8,110
O.P. Tran. Syst. 8Hb/s (km)           4,200                                4,200
Satellite Earth Stations              15                                    15
Mobile Sat Earth Stations             1                                     1
Data Telecom Network Nodes            6                                     9
Data Telecom NetSubnodes              42                                   45
Data Telecom Intel. PAD (No.)         111                                  431
Data Telecom Term. PAD (No.)          110                                  431
Data Telecom Net Man. Ctrs.           2                                     2
Conference Network Locations          15                                    15
TMIS: no required.
PILOT CONTAINER TRANSPORT             The data below for the year 1992      (in 2000)
- 29 -



COMPONENT.
Intl. ISO Containers Handled         0.5                                  330
(000 TEUlyear)
Total Container Throughput           45                                   2209
(000 TEU/year)
1/ PSR: Project Status Report
- 30 -



Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
CAPACITY EXPANSION COMPONENTS.
Beijing-Zhengzhou; Chengdu-Kunming   Beijing-Zhengzhou; Chengdu-Kunming
(in 1992)     (in 1992)              (in 2000)     (in 2000)
annual traffic volume                 28.7 ML.Trips  5.59 MIl.Trips       35.56 MiI.Trips:  6.27M.Trips
218.56Mil.Ton.  12.46Mil.Ton         186.96 Mil.Ton.  16.55Mil.Ton
annual throughput (tumover' in ton-km and  19972Ml.Pkm;  3513 Mil.Pkm     24712 MiI.Pkm;  4437 Ml.Pkm
pass.-km)                            56792Ml.Tkm.    15516Mil.Tkm         33142 Mil.Tkm.  20998Mil.Tkm
types of service offered             Passenger and Freight Transport      Passenger and Freight Transport
average speed for trains on the line by  (Passenger)50km/h;  52.5km/h;    (Passenger)66.4km/h; 56.3km/h;
serv%o type                          (Freight) 29.6km/h;  24.3km/h.       (Freight) 41.9kni/h. 26.8kmlh.
service reliability (on-time performance by  (Passenger)96.1 %;  93.8%;   (Passenge098.9%;   95.9%;
service type)                        (Freight) 92%.   99.9%               (Freight) 94%.   99.9%
accidents by type                    0;        1.611time/Mil.km           0;        1.639Ume/Mil.km
percent of freight wagon requests granted  65%     60%                    75%            75%
average unit operating costs (Yl1 0,000
combined ton-km) for each year of operation. 105.45;  359.3               471.115;         540.78
(excludes repair cost)               (includes repair cost)
TRACK MAINTENANCE COMPONENT.         (in 1994)                            (in 2000)
staff savings for track maintenance crews  6,686                          2,627 (increased again to increase in track
(cumulatve);                                                              lengh in service)
staff savings for track rehablitaton crews  1,735                         7,488
(cumulatve);
rail failures due to maintenance;    0.70/1 00km                          0.61/100mn
accidents due to rail defects        83/per year                          65/per year
delays due to accidents. (Beijing to  64hrs in total                      2hrs and 45rnin in total
Zhengzhou and Kuming to Chengdu)
LOCOMOTIVE & ROLLING STOCK           (In 1996)                            (In 2000)
COMPONENT.
average number of kilometers between  260,000 km                          300,000 km
scheduled maintenance
delays due to DF4 locomotive failures  3.2                                0.9
(hours/failure);
number of DF4 locomotive failures    133                                  7
44 1km/hr                            50.5km/hr
average train speed (freight and passenger)
DF4 locomobve fuel consumption;      25kg/1 Othousand ton                 24.6kg/i Othousand km
average unit wagon Maintenance costs  38,000 RMB Yuan                     35,000 RMB Yuan
average unit coach mintenance costs.
350,000 RMB Yuan                     320,000 RMB Yuan
TELECOM AND TMIS COMPONENT.
TELECOM:                             (In 1998)                            (In 1999)
Long Distance Automabon (%)          90                                   95
Intemal Effectve Call Completion Rate (%)  60                             80
Speech Satisfacton Degree (%)        99                                   99
- 31 -



No. of Faults/1 00 DELe/Month        55                                   30
Average Duration of Fault (hrs)      1.28                                 0.3
No. of staff/l,000 DELs              50                                   35
No. of staff/i 00 km Cable           104                                  90
No. of staff (000)                   52.592                               69.168
TMIS:                                (In 1999)                            (In 2001)
loaded wagon kilometers;             284km/per day                        266km/per day
empty wagon kilometers;              189km/per day                        191km/per day
wagon tumaround time;                5.48 days                            5.09 days
average time to obtain a wagon;      15days                               1 day
staffing level (information system activities).  1600(in 1995)            2000(in 2000)
PILOT CONTAINER TRANSPORT            (in 1992)                            (in 2000)
COMPONENT.
number of unit trains operated in each  Harbin-Beijing-Zhengzhou-Guangzhou(H-B- Harbin-Beijing-Zhengzhou-Guangzhou(H-B-
corridor;                            Z-G):8                               Z-G):30
Shanghai-Zhengzhou-Xi'an(S-Z-X):3    Shanghai-Zhengzhou-Xi'an(S-Z-X):9
number of container wagons provided by  H-B-Z-G: 1600                     H-B-Z-G: 4100
corridor (flat care and gonddas);    S-Z-X: 500                           S-Z-X: 1200
sta on-to-station tme between major O-D  H-B:7days;B-Z:3days;Z-G:8days    H-B:6days;B-Z:3days;Z-G:6days
S-Z:5days;Z-X:3days                  S-Z:4days;Z-X:2days
percentage of on-time service (percent of unit
train service arriving within the 12 hour  H6B-Z-G: 74%                    H-B-Z-G: 78%
service window)                      S-Z-X: 72%                           S-Z-X: 77%
End of project
1/ PSR: Project Status Report
- 32 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActualULatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
BEITING-ZHENGZHOU LINE                            327.00         518.49
CHENGDU-KUNMING LINE                              363.00         597.12
TRACK MAINTENANCE                                  45.40         103.30
LOCOMOTIVES & ROLLING STOCK                        23.60          20.59
TELECOMMUNICATIONS & TRANSPORTATION               246.40         194.66
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM(TMIS)
PILOT CONTAINER TRANSPORT                          50.70          31.02
POLICY & TECHNICAL ASSISSTANCE(TA)                  9.30           8.05
Total Baseline Cost                              1065.40        1473.23
Physical Contingencies                            47.80           0.00
Price Contingencies                               70.30           0.00
Total Project Costs          1183.50        1473.23
Total Financing Required           1183.50       1473.23
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB          Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00        560.50      560.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    399.90        0.00         14.00       186.30       600.20
(399.90)      (0.00)       (10.00)      (0.00)     (409.90)
3. Services                  0.90         0.00         9.20         1.30        11.40
(0.90)       (0.00)       (9.20)       (0.00)      (10.10)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         11.40       11.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    400.80        0.00         23.20        759.50      1183.50
(400.80)      (0.00)       (19.20)      (0.00)      (420.00)
2/ Local shopping and consultants services.
- 33 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
_  _   _  Procurement Method            _      _
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB          Othod         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          0.00         900.51        900.51
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      397.64          0.00         0.00         167.03        564.67
(397.64)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (397.64)
3. Services                    3.50           0.00         3.95          0.60          8.05
(3.50)        (0.00)        (3.95)        (0.00)       (7.45)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00).       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       401.14         0.00          3.95        1068.14       1473.23
(401.14)       (0.00)        (3.95)        (0.00)      (405.09)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt      CoP.     Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
BEIJING-ZHENGZHOU       112.00   254.40     0.00     101.58    416.91    0.00    90.7   163.9   0.0
LINE
CHENGDU-KUNMING         90.00    317.20     0.00     60.52     536.60    0.00    67.2   169.2   0.0
LINE
TRACK MAINTENANCE       47.80     0.20      0.00     95.22      8.08     0.00    199.2  4040.0  0.0
LOCOMOTIVES &           22.00     3.40      0.00     17.56      3.03     0.00     79.8   89.1   0.0
ROLLING STOCK
TELECOMMUNICATION       120.00   152.50     0.00     102.74    91.92     0.00    85.6   60.3    0.0
S & TRANSPORTATION
MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION
SYSTEM(TMIS)
PILOT CONTAINER         19.00     35.30     0.00     20.02     11.00     0.00    105.4  31.2    0.0
TRANSPORT
POLICY & TECHNICAL      9.20      0.50      0.00      7.45      0.60     0.00     81.0  120.0   0.0
ASSISSTANCE(TA)
TOTAL                  420.00    763.50     0.00     405.09   1068.14    0.00     96.5  139.9   0.0
- 34 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Introduction
This Annex presents the economic reevaluation of the Capacity Expansion subcomponent of the Sixth
China Railway project. Specifically, these include the electrification and modernization of (a) the 699-km
double-track Beijing-Zhengzhou line and (b) the 1,094-km single-track Chengdu-Kunming route. Based on
the analyses that follow, the reevaluation concludes that based on a discount rate of 12 percent the net
present value (NPV) for the Beijing--Zhenzhou project is Yuan 4.1 billion and the economic rate of return
(EIRR) is equal to 21.9 percent -- slightly higher than the 19.8 percent figure reported in the SAR. For the
Chengdu-Kunming component, the NPV is just under Yuan 1 billion and the economic rate of return is
15.1 percent, lower than the 28.7 percent derived in the SAR. See SAR, Sixth Railway Project, Report
No. 11357-CHA (February 25, 1993) Table 4.1 and Supplementary Volume (February 25, 1993) Working
Paper No. 23 [hereafter Working Paper No. 23] Tables 3 and 4.
While these reevaluated results are within the range of acceptability, it should be noted that since the
preparation and implementation of this project, China railways has been undergoing a major shift in its
traffic mix whereby passenger volume has assumed greater significance than heretofore had been the case.
To illustrate: following several years of decline, railway passenger volume in absolute terms has been
growing. Compared with 1996, for example, railway passenger km in the year 2000 was up by 36.3
percent. Reflecting these increases, the railway share of total passenger traffic (all modes) rose from 35.5
percent in 1998 to 36.6 percent in 1999 and to 37.0 percent in 2000. In the context of the last three
decades, these year-to-year increases in railway passenger modal share are unprecedented. National
Bureau of Statistics of China, China Statistical Yearbook 2001, Table 15-7. At the same time, railway
freight traffic has not expanded as rapidly. Since 1996, railway freight tkms are up by just 7.2 percent - or
only about a fifth as much as the passenger increase. As a consequence, the railway share of total freight
traffic has declined from 35.6 percent in 1996 to 31.3 percent in 2000. Id, Table 15-9.
In part, the growth in railway passenger business is consistent with the Ministry of Railways (MOR) recent
emphasis on this sector. Over the last several years, there has been a concerted effort to attract passengers
through such service improvements as raising the speed of passenger trains, putting in place more
air-conditioned rolling stock, and instituting reliable ovemight service between major cities.
This increased emphasis on passenger transportation is reflected in the history of both of the Railways VI
line capacity expansions. At the time of project preparation, it was assumed that the growth in freight and
passenger traffic would be comparable. Thus, for the Beijing-Zhengzhou line, the SAR anticipated that
between 1992 and 2005 freight tkms would increase by 68.3 percent, while passenger traffic on the line
would grow by 64.6 percent over the same timneframe. Similarly, on the Chengdu-Kunming route, the SAR
assumed that freight and passenger volumes also would rise at similar rates, 108 percent and 122 percent
respectively. Working Paper No. 23, Table 1.
Nonetheless, consistent with the recent national trends noted above, the contemporary estimates for the two
lines that are utilized in this analysis reveal that the growth in passenger traffic will substantially exceed the
increases expected in freight traffic. On the Chengdu-Kunming line, passenger-kms between 2000 and
2015 will increase by 53 percent according to MOR -- far faster than the 38 percent expansion estimated
for freight tkns (see Tables 4 and 5). The story is the same for the Beijing-Zhengzhou route. Compared
with 1998 levels, passenger volumes here are expected to rise 73 percent by 2015, but freight traffic will
increase only by a modest 12 percent (see Tables I and 2). In the wake of the completion of the parallel
Beijing-Kowloon line in 1996, MOR concluded that the existing route between Beijing and Guangzhou (of
- 35 -



which the instant Beijing-Zhengzhou line represents the northernmost portion) should become a primary
artery for passenger traffic. See, China: Seventh Railway Project Loan (Loan No. 3897-CHA) Proposed
Restructuring and Amendment to Loan Agreement, R99-2 (January 13, 1999) [hereafter Railways VII
Restructuring] p. 3, para 9. Consequently, freight traffic that had been anticipated to flow via
Beijing-Zhengzhou-Guangzhou would be diverted to Beijing-Kowloon as that line would become the chief
freight route for this north-south corridor. The markedly greater growth of passenger traffic for
Beijing-Zhengzhou that is now forecast by MOR is consistent with this post-project functional
differentiation.
Despite this major change in traffic assumptions, the capacity expansion of these two routes continues to be
justified from an economic standpoint.
THE BEIJING-ZHENGZHOU LINE
Direct Project Costs
On a financial basis, the total direct outlays of the Beijing-Zhengzhou electrification and modernization
project amounted to Yuan 3.9 billion (see Table A). Direct project costs on an economic basis were
derived from the financial costs by shadow pricing the labor component of local costs. According to MOR,
about 11 percent of local costs were classified as labor expenses. This amount (Yuan 359 million) was
shadow priced at a rate of 1.6 reflecting the factor employed in the SAR. Working Paper No. 22, Table 1.
TABLE A: ICR Financial and Economic Direct Project Costs
(Yuan million)
Local                Foreign              Total
Financial            3,344.4              556.7                3,901.1
(current)
Economic             3,742.2              513.3                4,255.4
(constant, 2000)
The resulting local costs plus foreign outlays were then transforned into constant 2000 Yuan using the
annual overall Gross Domestic deflator and the annual Imports of Goods and Nonfactor services deflator
respectively. With these adjustments, the economnic direct costs of the project in constant 2000 values are
equal to nearly Yuan 4.3 billion as detailed in Table 3.
By restating the economic costs of the SAR in 2000 Yuan, it is possible to compare the direct project costs
of the ICR and the SAR. The results are shown in Table B. The annual economic costs presented in the
SAR are apportioned into local and foreign categories on the basis of the designations presented therein.
SAR, Table 3.1, p. 2.
Table B: Economic Direct Project Costs
(Yuan millions, 2000 prices)
ICR                  SAR                  ICR/SAR
1992                 n.a.                 2,171.4              n.a.
2000                 4,255.4              3,423.4              1.24
Source: SAR, Working Paper No. 23, Table 3 and Table A.
- 36 -



Employing the same domestic and foreign deflators referenced above, these outlays were converted into
constant 2000 Yuan. As can be seen in Table B, the ICR direct project cost figure of Yuan 4.3 billion is
24 percent higher than the comparable 2000 Yuan 3.4 billion derived from the SAR.
Complementary Costs
Several types of complementary expenditures should be included in the overall cost stream of the project.
These include capital outlays for railway equipment and the incremental electrical generating capacity
necessitated by changing the line from diesel power to electric traction, as well as an annual operating cost
for catenary maintenance. Each is quantified in Table 3 and discussed in turn here.
Additional Railway CapitaL MOR provided an annual schedule of locomotives and passenger
coach acquisitions required to handle the incremental traffic made possible by the project. For the period
1996-2015, these include 273 electric locomotives and almost 4,600 passenger coaches. Based on the
economic unit prices provided by MOR (Yuan 8.4 million per electric locomotive and 1.83 million per
passenger coach) and allowing for the retirement of diesel locomotives no longer required, the total net
amount of additional investment required for railway equipment was derived for each forecast year.
New Electrical Generation Costs. In the SAR, the capital cost of the additional electrical
generation capacity needed to supply power to the line also was included as a complementary cost. At a
unit cost of Yuan 5 rnillion per MW and an estimated 101 MW of new capacity required, the total outlay
for this investment is Yuan 505 million. For the unit cost of electrical generating capacity, see Project
Concept Document for China National Railways, Annex 4 [hereafter National Railways]; for the capacity
needed for the line, see Working Paper No. 23, p. 2.
In Table 3, this amount is allocated in equal amounts over the two-year period immediately preceding
operation of the new line.
Allowance for Catenary Maintenance. Because MOR's costing system does not fully cover the
operating expense associated with maintenance of the electrical catenary, the SAR included an annual
amount of Yuan 48.9 million as a complementary cost. This was based on a unit cost of Yuan 70,000 per
track-kilometer. Updating this figure to a year 2000 value (Yuan 112,000) and utilizing the same 699-km
distance, yields a cost of Yuan 78.2 million per year.
Project Benefits
The benefits of the project fall into three categories (see Table 3). For both passenger and freight traffic,
respectively, there are two types of cost savings. One relates to the lower operating cost of electric as
contrasted with diesel power, while the other is associated with the modal cost savings achieved by using
railway rather than highway transportation. The third benefits category concerns the value-added obtained
from the induced traffic made possible by the project.
Operating Cost Savings. MOR estimates that the cost savings achieved by converting from diesel
to electric traction are Yuan 0.005 per km. Applying this amount to the 50.4 billion tkms of annual volume
"base" freight traffic (that is, the amount of traffic that would use diesel power in a "without project"
scenario) results in a yearly benefit of Yuan 252 million. For the "base" passenger traffic (18.7 billion
pkms), the comparable figure is Yuan 93.5 million per year.
- 37 -



Modal Cost Savings. For freight traffic, MOR indicates that the unit cost of electric traction is
Yuan 0.04 per tkm. The analysis for Railways VII indicated that the unit cost of highway transportation is
about three times that of railway electric traction, or about Yuan 0.12 per tkm here. Railways VII
Restructuring, Annex 4, p. 22.
The difference in these amounts - Yuan 0.08 per tkm - applied to the annual incremental
freight volume, yields the year-to-year modal savings benefits for freight.
For incremental passenger traffic, the SAR assumed that the portion that was local and
involved comparatively shorter distances was diverted from the highways. In its current
projections, MOR indicates that about 25 percent of the incremental passenger traffic is local.
With respect to passenger locomotives, the unit cost for electric traction, according to MOR, is
Yuan 0.06 per pkm. Utilizing the same three-fold highway multiple noted above, a
conservative estimate of the unit cost of bus and automobile transport is Yuan 0.18 per pkm.
Thus, the unit cost savings for railway is equal to Yuan 0.12 per pkm.
Value-Added. In the SAR, a benefit was also calculated for "induced" freight traffic -- i.e., "new
freight traffic that would not have taken place without the project." Working Paper No. 23, p. 4.
In light of the transformation of the traffic mix that has occurred on the project line, this category of
benefits is more properly attributed to passenger traffic. Consistent with the SAR, it is assumed here that
portion of the incremental traffic not already assumed to be diverted (75 percent) should be regarded as
induced. To produce an annual benefit, this volume is multiplied by the Yuan 200 value-added per
passenger developed for National Railways.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
For the economic reevaluation, net benefits are calculated for the 24-year period 1992-2015 to derive
estimates of the NPV (a discount rate of 12 percent was used) and the economic intemal rate of return
(EIRR) . As reported in Table 2, the estimated NPV is Yuan 4.1 billion and the EIRR is 21.9 percent.
Adjustments were made in three of the base case assumptions in order to test the sensitivity of these results
(see Table C).
Table C. Sensitivity Analysis
NPV                         EIRR
(Yuan millions, 2000 prices)  (%)
Base Case                   4,125                       21.9
Reduce operating cost
savings by 50 percent      3,491                        20.4
Reduce modal cost benefit
by 50 percent              3,567                        20.9
Reduce value-added
Benefit by 50 percent       1,071                       15.2
- 38 -



Operating Cost Benefits. The base case postulates the unit operating cost benefit for both freight
and passenger traffic at Yuan 0.005. If this value is reduced by half, the NPV falls to Yuan 3.5 billion and
the EIRR declines to 20.4 percent.
*      Modal Cost Savings. With this benefit, the base case assumes that the unit cost savings for
freight traffic is Yuan 0.08 and for passenger traffic Yuan 0.12. If these values are adjusted downward by
half, the NPV amounts to Yuan 3.6 billion and the EIRR is equal to 20.9 percent.
*      Value-Added for Passenger Traffic. The sensitivity of this benefit was tested by lowering the
unit value-added from Yuan 200 to Yuan 100. This yielded an NPV of just under Yuan 1.1 billion and an
EIRR of 15.2 percent.
All of these adjustments result in acceptable NPV and EIRR outcomes.
THE CHENGDU-KUNMING LINE
Direct Project Costs
Table D presents the financial and economic direct project costs for the Chengdu-Kunming line. The
sources and methodology supporting these calculations are identical to those employed for the analysis of
the Beijing-Zhengzhou line described earlier. Compared to a current financial cost of Yuan 4.7 billion, the
project after shadow pricing of the labor costs (about 10 percent of overall local expenses) and conversion
to constant 2000 values is equal to Yuan 5.0 billion.
Table D: ICR Financial and Economic Direct Project Costs
(Yuan million)
| Local               Foreign              Total
Financial            4,409.4              292.4               4,701.8
(current)                                                               . .
Economic             4,724.4              287.4               5,011.8
(constant,2000)
When translated into constant 2000 Yuan, the direct project costs estimated in the SAR amount to almost
Yuan 3.7 billion. Thus, the comparable ICR figure is about 36 percent higher than the restated SAR value
(see Table E).
Table E: Economic Direct Project Costs
(Yuan million, 2000 prices)
ICR                  SAR| ICR/SARP
1992                 n.a.                2,354.6              n.a.
2000                 5,011.8              3,698.7             1.36
Source: SAR, Working Paper No. 23, Table 4 and Table D.
- 39 -



Complementary Costs
The categories of complementary costs are the same as those described earlier for the Beijing-Zhengzhou
line (see Table 6). There are only modest changes in the calculations. Since no additional freight wagons
or passenger coaches are anticipated for the Chengdu-Kunming route, the only additional equipment
involves the substitution of electric for diesel locomotives. This results in a minimal net impact on
economic costs. In the SAR, the incremental electrical capacity required for the Chengdu-Kunming line
amounted to 380 MV. Using the same unit cost of Yuan 5 million per MV in the prior discussion of
complementary costs, the total amount here is equal to Yuan 380 million spread over the two-year period
immediately prior to the commencement of electrical operations. Catenary maintenance is again valued at a
unit cost of Yuan 112,000 per track-km or a total of Yuan 122.5 million per year for the 1,094 km
Chengdu-Kunming route.
Project Benefits
Again the methodology for categorizing and calculating project benefits accords with the approach
described for Beijing-Zhengzhou. The operating cost savings for both freight and passenger operations
stemming from the conversion to electric traction is Yuan 0.005 per freight or passenger km. This unit cost
is applied to the volume of traffic that would have traversed the line in a "without project" scenario.
Similarly, the modal unit cost savings from diverting traffic from the highway to the railway are the same
as described earlier: Yuan 0.08 for freight and Yuan 0.12 for passenger. These values are applied to 20
percent of the incremental freight kms and to 40 percent of the incremental passenger kms.
For the remaining 60 percent of the passenger traffic, it is assumed, as in Beijing-Zhengzhou, that this is
"induced" and the unit figure of Yuan 200 per person is again used. In contrast to Beijing-Zhengzhou, the
amount of "induced" freight business is significant for Chengdu-Kunming, and therefore merits being
regarded as a project benefit. The 80 percent of the incremental freight volume not already categorized as
being diverted from the highways is considered to be "induced," and the unit amount ascribed to the
value-added freight traffic is Yuan 400 per ton as developed most recently in National Railways. Ibid.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
For the economic reevaluation, net benefits are calculated for the 23-year period 1993-2015 to derive
estimates of NPV (a discount rate of 12 percent was used) and the EIRR. As reported in Table 6, the
estimated NPV is Yuan 881 million and the EIRR is 15.1 percent.
Adjustments were made in the base case assumptions in order to test the sensitivity of these outcomes. The
results are reported in Table F.
When the unit modal cost benefit is reduced by half, the NPV declines to Yuan 739 million and the EIRR
falls to 14.7 percent. Similarly, cutting the operating cost savings benefit by 50 percent reduces the NPV
to Yuan 724 million and lowers the EIRR to 14.6 percent. If the value-added benefit associated with the
passenger traffic is only half of that in the base case, the NPV drops to Yuan 832 million and the resulting
EIRR is 15.0 percent. Should the freight value-added benefit decline by half, the NPV would be equivalent
to Yuan 606 million and the EIRR would be 9.2 percent.
- 40 -



Table F: Sensitivity Analysis
NPV                         EIRR
(Yuan mnillions 2000)       %
Base Case                   881                         15.1
Reduce modal cost benefit  739                         14.7
By 50 percent
Reduce operating cost      724                         14.6
Savings by 50 percent
Reduce value-added pass.   832                         15.0
Benefit by 50 percent
Reduce value-added freight  606                         9.2
Benefit by 50 percent
With the exception of the last adjustmnent, these NPV and EIRR outcomes are satisfactory.
- 41 -



Table I
Beijing-Zhengzhou Line Freight Traffic, 1990-2015
ons (thousands)      .           Ton-kilometers (mi lions)
_ ________ Without   With                       Without    With
Year           Proiect   Proiect  Increment          Project   Proiect  Increment
1990           215,379    215,379     -               53,391    53,391      -
1991           219,735    219,735     -               54,641    54,641      -
1992           218,560   218,560      -               56,792    56,792      -
1993           222,219   222,219      -               57,478    57,478     -
1994           218,437   218,437      -               58,429    58,429      -
1995           223,762   223,762      -               59,320    59,320
1996           222,598   222,598      -   ___         56,403    56,403      -
1997           218,562   218,562      -               50,400    50,400      -
1998           218,562    184,523  (34,039)           5 50,400  41,190   (9,210)
1999           218,562    185,028  (33,534j           50,400    33,035  (17,365)
2000           218,562    186,958  (31,604)           50,400    33,142  (17,258)
2001    _      218,562    209,605  (8,957j            50,400    49,544     (856)
2002           218,562    213,794  (4,768)            50,400    50,005     (395)
2003           218,562    218,112    (450j            50,400    50,471      71
2004           218,562    222,564   4,002             50,400    50,941     541
2005         . 218,562    227,161   8,599             50,400    51,415    1,015
2006           218,562    230,826  12,264             50,400    51,892    1,492
2007           218,562    234,555  15,993           _ 50,400    52,373    1,973
2008           218,562    238,346  19,784             50,400    52,859    2,459
2009           218,562    242,203  23,641             50,400    53,349    2,949
2010           218,562    246,130  27,568             50,400    53,850    3,450
2011           218,562    250,191  31,629             50,400    54,350    3,950
2012           218,562    254,324  35,762             50,400    54,855    4,455
2013           218,562    258,528  39,966             50,400    55,364    4,964
2014           218,562    262,807  44,245             50,400    55,878    5,478
2015           218,562    267,174  48,612             50,400    56,394    5,994
-42 -



Table 2
Beijing-Zhengzhou Line Passenger Traffic, 1990-2015
Tri )s (thousands)             Pass-kilometers (millions)
Without    With                  Without    With
Year           Prolect   Proiect  Increment     Proiect   Proiect  Increment
1990             24,116    24,116                 16,783    16,783      -
1991             26,527   26,527           _      18,462    18,462      -
1992             28,701    28,701       -         19,972    19,972      -
1993             30,151   30,151           =      20,982    20,982      -
1994             30,085    30,085          _      20,936    20,936      -
1995             28,166   28,166           =      19,592    19,592      -
1996             25,306   25,306                  17,574    17,574      -
1997             26,932   26,932           _      18,691    18,691      -
1998             26,932   27,891      959         18,691    19,355      664
1999             26,932    31,152   4,220         18,691    21,632     2,941
2000             26,932    35,557   8,625  =      18,691    24,712     6,021
2001       _     26,932    36,518   9,586   _     18,691    25,377     6,686
2002             26,932    37,503   10,571        18,691    26,061     7,370
2003             26,932    38,524   11,592 -      18,691    26,766     8,075
2004             26,932    39,573  12,641         18,691    27,491     8,800
2005             26,932    40,652   13,720        18,691    28,238     9,547
2006             26,932    41,761   14,829        18,691    29,008    10,317
2007             26,932    42,900   15,968  =     18,691    29,799    11,108
2008             26,932    44,071   17,139        18,691    30,613    11,922
2009             26,932    45,274   18,342  _     18,691    31,447    12,756
2010             26,932    46,511   19,579  =     18,691    32,306    13,615
2011             26,932    46,511  19,579         18,691    32,306    13,615
2013             26,932    46,511   19,579        18,691    32,306    13,615
20 13            2692      46,511   1 9,579       1 8,691   32.306  1 3,15
2014             26,932    46,511   19.579        18,691    32,306    13,615
2015             26,932    46,511   19,579        18,691    32,306    13,615
- 43 -



Table 3
Beijing-Zhengzhou Electrification
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
COSTS                                                BENEFITS
Additional Electric  Electric          Operating Cost  Modal Cost Savings  Value-  Total    Net
Savings                         Added            Benefit
Year     Direct  Rwy Equip. Genera-  Cat.     Total   Freight  Passenger Freight Passenger Passenger Benefits  Cash
Project             tion    Maint.   Costs                                                           Flow
1992       57.1                                57.4                                                         (57.4)
1993      406.                                406.4                                                        (406.4)
1994      700.q                               700.9                                                        (700.9)
1995      587.1 _                             587.1                                                        (587.1)
1996      935.s     554.4  252.5             1,742.E .      ._                          _                 (1,742.8
199       683.     (141.1  252.5              795.                                                .         (795.3)
199       835.      1305.             78.    2,219.    252.        93.5             19 .     143.S  509.2 (1,709.8
1999       48.'      42.1             78.     169.i    252.C       93.    '-        88.      633.C 1.066.j   897.1
2000                (70.5             78.3      7.     252.        93.             180.6    1,293.E 1.819.8  1,812.1
2001                (10.0.            78.      68.     252.        93.             200.4    1,437.5 1,983.9  1,915.
2002                  54._            78.      133.1   252.(       93.'            221.1    1,585.-, 2,152.2  2,019.1
2003                  64.        -    78.      143.2   252.(       93.' _          242.3    1,738.  2.326.5  2,183.3
2004        .        112.' _          78.3     191.    252.(       93.5    5.7     264.0    1,896.2 2,511.3  2,320.1
2005                 455._            78.     533.     252.        93.    43.3     286.    2,058.C 2,733.1  2,199.6
2006                 170.(            78.     248.     252.        93.    81.4     309.    2,224.4 2,960..  2,712.3
2007                 214.(            78.3    292.3    252.(       93.   119.      333.4   2,395.2 3,193.3  2,900.9
2008                 262.'            78.3    340.     252.        93.   157.      357.,   2,570.S 3.431.   3,091.
2009                 299.             78.      377.    252.        93.   196.,     382.1   2,751. . 3,676.2  3,298.5
201C                 327.             78.3    406.1    252.(       93.'  235.      408.'    2,936.S 3,926.7  3,520.6
2011                 319.z            78.     397.     252.        93.   276.      408.'   2,936.5 3,966.   3,569.
2012                 319.z            78.3    397.     252.C       93.'  316.(     408.'   2,936.S 4,006.   3,609.(
2013                 311.(            78.3    389.3    252.(       93.5  356.i     408.     2,936.S 4,047.  3,657,8
201                  311.             78.3    389.3    252.        93.   397.1     408.'   2,936.S 4,087.   3,698.
2015 _      . .      3 1 1L.(         78.3     389.    252.(       93.   438.2     408.     2,936.S 4,129.C  3,739.,7
Total    4,255.4   5,214.5 505.00(  1,409.2  11,384.1  4,536.C  1,682.2 2,623.1  5,336.    38,349.5 52,528.8 41,144.7
.________          ___     _ _______          ________               68     22;    _________          ____
_NPVC    4,125
_____  ____  _____                  ____                  ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~ ~~ ~~~~120/c _ _   _ _
_  44IRR                                             21.9/
-44 -



Table 4
Chengdu-Kunming Line Freight Traffic, 1990-2015
Tons (thousands               Ton-kilometers (millions)
Without    With  |               Without    With
Year           Project   Proiect  Increment     Proiect    Proiect  Increment
1 990            10,880   10,880      -           15,385    15,385     -
1991             11,220    11,220     -           15,290    15,290     -
1992             12,460   12,460      -           15,516    15,516     -
1993             13,340   13,340      -           15,718    15,718     -
1994             13,140   13,140      -           15,633    15,633
1995             13,190   13,190      -           17,750    17,750     -
1996             13,470   13,470      -    _      19,206    19,206     -
1997             14,100   14,100      -    _      19,327    19,327     -
1998             14,210   14,210      -    _      19,375    19,375     -
1999             14,710   14,710      -           18,998    18,998     -
2000             16,550    16,550     -           20,998    20,998     -
2001             17,000    17,200     200  =      21,000    21,600     600
2002             17,000    17,900     900         21,000    22,200    1,200
2003             17,000    18,600   1,600  =      21,000    22,900    1,900
2004             17,000    19,400   2,400         21,000    23,600    2,600
2005             17,000    20,000   3,000  _      21,000    24,300    3,300
2006             17,000   21,000    4,000         21,000    25,000    4,000
2007             17,000   21,800    4,800         21,000    25,800    4,800
2008             17,000   22,600    5,600         21,000    26,600    5,600
2009             17,000    23,500   6,500  =      21,000    27,400    6,400
2010             17,000    24,500   7,500         21,000    28,200    7,200
2011             17,000    25,000   8,000         21,000    29,000    8,000
2012             17,000   25,000    8,000         21,000    29,000    8,000
2013 _           17,000   25,000    8,000         21,000    29,000    8,000
2014 _           17,000   25,000    8,000         21,000    29,000    8,000
2015 5           17,000   25,000    8,000         21,000    29,000    8,000
- 45 -



Table 5
Chengdu-Kunming Line Passenger Traffic, 1990-2015
TrT Ds (thousans)   ____     Pass-kiometers_ (illions)
Without   With                  Without    With
Year __    _   Proiect  Project Increment =_ Project     Project Increment
1990             5,590    5,590      -            2,967    2,967
1991             5,200    5,200      -            3,145    3,145
1992             5,590    5,590      -            3,513    3,513      -
1993             6,790    6,790      -       _    3,692    3,692
1994 __  __      7,030    7,030      -    =       3,940    3,940
1995             6,370    6,370      -   _        3,773    3,773
1996             5,990    5,990      -            3,673    3,673
1997             6,610    6,610      -            3,978    3,978
1998             6,540    6,540      -            4,123    4,123
1999      _      6,570    6,570      -            4,720    4,720
2000             6,270    6,270      -            4,437    4,437      -
2001             6,300    6,330       30  =       4,500     4600      100
2002             6,300    6,400      100  _       4,500     4800      300
2003             6,300    6,460      160          4,500     5000      500
2004             6,300    6,500      200          4,500     5200      700
2005             6,300    6,590      290          4,500     5400      900
2006             6,300    6,650      350          4,500     5600    1,100
2007             6,300    6,700      400          4,500     5800    1,300
2008             6,300    6,790      490    _     4,500     6100    1,600
2009             6,300    6,850      550  =       4,500     6300    1,800
2010             6,300    6,900      600 _        4,500     6500    2,000
2011             6,300    7,000      700          4,500     6800    2,300
2012             6,300    7,000      700          4,500     6800    2,300
2013             6,300    7,000      700          4,500     6800    2,300
2014             6,300    7,000      700          4,500     6800    2,300
2015             6,300    7,000      700          4,500     6800    2,300
-46 -



Table 6
Chengdu-Kunming Electrification
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
COSTS                                                      BENEFITS
Additional Electric  Electric           Operating Cost   Modal Cost Savings  Value-Added     Total    Net
_______                           Sa vings                                                Benefit
Year    Direct  Rwy Equip. Genera-    Cat.     Total   Freight  Passenger Freight Passenger Passenger Freight Benefits Cash Flow
Project               tion   Maint.    Costs
1993       145.                                  145.7                                                                (145.7
1994       196.      -                          196.3                                                                 (196.3
1995      259.7      -                          259.7                                                                 (259.7)
1996      241.5      -                          241.-                                                                 (241.5
1997      471.       -            _             471.                                                                  (471.7
199E      1069.      -       190.(             1259.-                                                                (1259.8
19        1563.1      77.    190.C              1830.7                                                               (1830.7
2000      1063.       729.0            122.     1915.3                                                               (1915.3
2001               (1090.0)            122.    (967.51    105.       22.      9.        4.       3.<    64.(  209.     1177.(
2002                 -                 122.      122.5   105.        22.     19.       14.4     12.(   288.(  461.1     338.
2003                 -                 122.      122.5   105.(        22.    30.       24.C     19.:   512.(  713.1     590.
2004                 -                 122.      122.5    105.(       22.'   41./      33.(     24.(   768.(  994.      872.2
2001                 -                 122.      122.5    105.(       22.    52.1      43.2     34.    960.q  1218.:   1095.8
200                   118.3            122.     240.8     105.1      22.     64.       52.      42.( 1280.   1566.     1325.5
200                  -                 122.      122.1    105.(      22.!    76.0      62.1     48.( 1536.( 1850.'     1728.2
200                  -                 122.      122.     105.        22.    89.       76.      58.   1792.  2144.     2022.
200                  -                 122.      122.5    105.(       22.   102.-      86.4     66.( 2080.( 2462.:     2339.q
2010                  155.1            122.1     277.1   105.(        22.   1 15.'     96.(     72.( 2400.( 2810.      2533.1
2011                 -                 122.      122.6   105.1        22.   128.      110.C     84.( 2560.   3009.     2887.4
2012                         _         122.      122.5    105.(       22.   128.(     110.4     84.q 2560.( 3099.      2887.
2013                                   122.      122.5    105.(       22.   128.(     110.,     84.( 2560.( 3009.      2887.
2011-                                  122.5     122.f    105.(       22.!  131.~     110.,     84.( 2560.( 3013.1     2890.6
2015                                   122.      122.     105.        22.   128.      110.      84.   2560.  3009.     2887.
Total     5011.      (10.1 380.0_     1960.     7342.1   1575.       337.  1244.     1046.     800. 24480. 29484.1    22142.
_  =  ==   =  =  ==NPV@  =  986
_ _ _ _ _ _   ______   ____  _ _ _ _ _   _____   _ _ _ _   ______   ~~~~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~120/c _ _   __   _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _  IR R :   .  15.10/ _
-47 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/91                        8   1 Railway Specialist, I Railway
Engineer, 2 Financial Analysts, I
Management Information System
Specialist, I Railway Advisor, 1
Transport Specialist, I
Economist
3/92                        11    I Railway Costing Specialist, 2
Economists, 1 Financial Analyst,
I Telecommunications Engineer,
1 Railway Equipment Engineer,
1 Railway Engineer, 1
Management Information System
Specialist, I Railway Advisor, I
Railway Specialist, 1 Transport
Specialist
5/92                         2   2 Resettlement Specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/92                        12    1 Railway Costing Specialist,
2 Economists, 1 Financial
Analyst, I
Telecommunications
Engineer, I Railway
Equipment Engineer, 1
Railway Engineer, 1
Management Information
System Specialist, 1
Container Transport
Customer Service Specialist,
I Container Transport
Specialist, I Transport
Specialist, I Operations
Supervision
3/93                         6    1 Railway Specialist, 4
Railway Engineers, 1
Transport Economist
6/93                         7    1 Railway Specialist, 5 Railway
Engineers, 1 Transport
Economist
6/93                         7    1 Financial Analyst, I Railway     S            HS
Advisor, 1 Management
Information System Specialist, I
Economist, 1 Railway Engineer,
1 Container Transport Specialist
10/93                        5    1 Financial Analyst, 1 Railway     S            HS
- 48 -



Specialist, I Transport Specialist,
1 Economist, 1 Railway Engineer
3/94                         1   Telecommunications Engineer
5/94                         1   1 Railway Equipment Engineer
10/94                       9   7 Railway Engineers, I Railway
Investment Specialist, I Railway
Specialist
12/94                        1  Railway Management Specialist
5195                         1   Railway Management Specialist
6/95                         3   1 Telecommunications Engineer,    S             S
2 Railway Engineers
6/95                         1   Telecommunications Specialist
8/95                        I I  1 Railway Specialist, 8 Railway
Engineers, 2 Transport
Economists
10/95                       J    1 Environment Specialist
11/95                       6    1 Management Information          S            S
System Specialist, 1 Railway
Management Specialist, 1
Financial Analyst, I Transport
Specialist, I Railway Engineer, I
Railway Costing Specialist
3/96                         4   1 Financial Analyst, I            S             S
Economist, 1 Transport
Specialist, I Railway Engineer
5/96                         1   Railway Investment Specialist
6/96                         2   1 Telecommunications Specialist,  S             S
1 Railway Engineer
10/96                       1    1 Railway Engineer                S             S
10/96                       10   1 Railway Specialist, 6 Railway
Engineers, 1 Transport
Economist, I Container
Transport Specialist, I
Operations
3/97                         1   1 Railway Engineer                S             S
5/97                         1   1 Environment Specialist
9/97                         1   1 Environment Specialist
10/97                        1   1 Railway Engineer                S             S
12/97                        1   1 Resettlement Specialist
3/98                         1   1 Railway Engineer                S             S
6/98                         3   1 Environment Specialist, I       S             S
Resettlement Specialist, 1
Telecommunications Specialist
ICR
5/99                        3    Supervision - 1                   S             S
Environment Specialist, 2
Resettlement Specialists
9/99                        5    Supervision - 1 Financial         S             S
Specialist, 1 Railway Advisor, I
Telecommunications Specialist,
1 Operations, 1 Financial
-49 -



Management
11/99                        5    Supervision - 2 Resettlement       S             S
Specialists, 1 Environment
Specialist, I Engineer, I
Operations
12/99                        1    Supervision - I Resettlement       S             S
Specialist
12/00                        5    Supervision - 1 Transport          S             S
Specialist, I Railway Specialist,
I Engineer, 1 Economist, I
Operations
6/01                         1    Supervision - 1 Environmental      S             S
Specialist
11/01                        3    ICR - I Transport Specialist, 1    S             S
Resettlement Specialist, 1
Engineer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  [                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               126.1                       389.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                    127.3                       401.9
Supervision                             250.1                        731.6
ICR                                       9.9                         25.5
Total                                   513.4                      1,548.3
- 50 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                     O H *SUOM       O N O NA
L Physical                            O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
L Financial                           OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
L Institutional Development           0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                       O H OSUOM       O N O NA
Social
O PovertyReduction              OH OSUOM        ON O NA
O Gender                        O H OSUOM O N O NA
f Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Resettlement
Li Private sector development         0 H  O SU O M   0 N * NA
Li Public sector management           0 H  0 SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N O NA
- 51 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
2 Lending                                            OHS Os OU OHU
FX Supervision                                       OHS OS       * U   O HU
fZ Overall                                           OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
* Preparation                                        OHS OS       O  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS OS      O U   0 HU
5J Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS       O  U  O HU
- 52 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, China Sixth Railway Project, February 25, 1993.
The World Bank, Loan Agreement, China Sixth Railway Project Between The People's Republic of China
and Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
The World Bank, Office Memorandum, China: Sixth Railway Project(Railways VI)(Loan 3581-CHA),
Proposal to Use Loan Savings. May 31,2000.
The World Bank, A QAG Assessment, Supervision Quality and Safeguard Oversight in Six Projects in
China, August 25, 2000
The World Bank, No. 1 to No. 19 Project Status Reports for the Sixth Railway Project, from 1993 to 2001
- 53 -



