Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3581 CHA
(Sixth Railway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 15, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3581 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1993, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MOR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Railways or any successor thereto.
 
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of four hundred twenty million 
dollars ($420,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
Page  3
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MOR, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause MOR to carry out the  Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, technology and technical know-how contracts, and consultants' services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause MOR, from time to time to take, or cause to be taken, all such measures 
(including, but not limited to,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs and surcharges) as shall be 
required to produce in 1994, and each year thereafter, funds from internal sources 
equivalent to 80% or more of
total capital expenditures to be made in the following year.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the sum of (a) 
contributions to 
the Capital Construction Fund and the Railway 
Construction Fund, and (b) 
Depreciation.
 
(ii)
The term "net income" means the excess of total revenues over 
total expenses 
and financial obligations.
 
(iii)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of revenues from all 
sources related 
to railway transport operations net of business tax.
 
(iv)
The term "total expenses" means the sum of all expenses relating 
to 
operations, including maintenance, administration, 
and depreciation.
(v)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt, 
repayment of loans (including sinking fund payments, 
if any), all taxes or 
payments in lieu of taxes, allocations 
to special funds and other cash 
distributions of surplus 
Page  5
(including mandatory transfers to the Borrower), and 
any other cash 
outflows (other than capital expenditures) related to 
operations.
(vi)
The term "total capital expenditures" means the annual capital 
investment, 
including investment for equipment replacements.
 
(vii)
The term "Capital Construction Fund" means the fund established 
and maintained 
by the Borrower comprising funds being the difference 
between net income and 
funds deposited in the Special Fund for 
Health, Education and Welfare.
(viii) The term "Railway Construction Fund" means the fund established 
and maintained 
by the Borrower comprising revenues generated from 
the surcharge levied on 
freight transport.
 
(ix)
The Special Fund for Health, Education and Welfare means the fund 
established 
and maintained by the Borrower into which contributions to 
future expenditures 
related to the health, education, and welfare 
of railway employees and their 
dependents are deposited.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINAMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Page  6
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Daniel Ritchie
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)   Goods                    385,800,000     100% of foreign
                                               expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost), and 75%
                                               of local expend-
                                               itures for other
                                               items procured
                                               locally
(2)   Technology and             5,000,000     100%
      technical know-how
      contracts
(3)   Consultants'               9,200,000     100%
      services and
      training
(4)   Unallocated               20,000,000
                               ___________
      TOTAL                    420,000,000
Page  7
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000, may be made in 
respect of Category 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's efforts in carrying 
out: (i) expansion of railway capacity and modernization of railway technology on a 
systemwide basis; and (ii) railway policy, management and modernization initiatives.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
A.
Expansion and Modernization of Railways
 
1.
Expansion of railway capacity by: (a) electrification and modernization of (i) 
about six hundred and ninety-four kilometers double-track railway line between Beijing 
and Zhengzhou, and (ii) about eleven hundred kilometers single-track railway line 
between Chengdu and Kunming; and (b) upgrading of signaling and telecommunications 
installations, technical standards, station layouts, and maintenance facilities on 
both said lines to accommodate longer and heavier trains; lengthening of station 
sidings, works on bridges and tunnels, and modification of locomotive maintenance 
workshops and depots for electric locomotives.
2.
Mechanization of the track maintenance and establishment of computerized 
monitoring systems.
3.
(a) Introduction of modern machine tools for manufacturing locomotive and 
rolling stock parts, and (b) transfer of modern technology for designing and 
manufacturing airbrakes and casting
equipment parts.
4.
Expansion and modernization of MOR's telecommunications network, implementation 
of the first phase of a transport management information system, and institutional 
strengthening of MOR's
telecommunications services.
5.
Establishment of a pilot container transport system with a view to: (a) 
encourage MOR to shift priority from domestic cargo to international cargo; (b) 
upgrade the container handling equipment and container rolling stock; (c) modernize 
container operations by eliminating hump-yard operations and minimizing the number of 
stations to be served; and (d) strengthen the institutional
capability in the marketing and handling of international cargo. 
B.
Technical Assistance and Training
 
1.
Application and refinement of the decision support system developed under the 
Railway Investment Study (RIS) prepared under the Fifth Railway Project (LN. 3406 CHA) 
to strengthen MOR's
investment planning capability. 
Page  8
2.
Carrying out of various studies regarding railway tariffs, accounting, economic 
contracting system and management, container transport, cost-effective technology 
evaluation, and environmental
protection, and formulation and implementation of recommendations and actions plans 
pursuant thereto.
3.
Provision of technical assistance and training in respect of or relating to: (a) 
establishment of new accounting standards; (b) corporate management and planning; (c) 
modernization of information technology; (d) operation of the transport management 
information system; (e) an investigation for the adaptation of foreign technology for 
steel wheel casting; (f) preparation of computerized container information systems to 
support pilot container operations; and (g) a program for adapting, testing, and 
debugging transport management information system software.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
November 15, 1998                           7,850,000
May 15, 1999                                8,145,000
November 15, 1999                           8,445,000
May 15, 2000                                8,760,000
November 15, 2000                           9,085,000
May 15, 2001                                9,425,000
November 15, 2001                           9,775,000
May 15, 2002                               10,135,000
November 15, 2002                          10,515,000
May 15, 2003                               10,905,000
November 15, 2003                          11,310,000
May 15, 2004                               11,730,000
November 15, 2004                          12,165,000
May 15, 2005                               12,615,000
November 15, 2005                          13,085,000
May 15, 2006                               13,570,000
November 15, 2006                          14,075,000
May 15, 2007                               14,600,000
November 15, 2007                          15,140,000
May 15, 2008                               15,705,000
November 15, 2008                          16,285,000
May 15, 2009                               16,890,000
November 15, 2009                          17,520,000
May 15, 2010                               18,170,000
November 15, 2010                          18,845,000
May 15, 2011                               19,545,000
November 15, 2011                          20,270,000
May 15, 2012                               21,025,000
November 15, 2012                          21,805,000
May 15, 2013                               22,610,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Page  9
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  
0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  
0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    
0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 
0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 
0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                  
1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods, technology and technical know-how 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the 
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, 
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful 
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed 
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency 
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an 
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and technology and technical 
know-how shall each be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more respectively.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  10
1.
Items or groups of items of goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$10,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decision
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) implement Part A 
of the Project in accordance with a schedule agreed to by the Bank, (b) monitor 
implementation of the Project and furnish periodic progress reports in respect thereof 
at such intervals and in such form as may be reasonably requested by the Bank, and (c) 
ensure that performance indicators for Part A of the Project will equal or exceed 
their targets agreed to by the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall carry out the technical assistance and training under Part B 
of the Project in accordance with programs agreed to by the Bank.
Page  11
3.
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Bank's policy on resettlement, and, 
to this end, shall: (a) carry out the land acquisition and resettlement activities 
under Part A of the Project
pursuant to the Resettlement Action Plan, prepared by the Borrower, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) monitor, evaluate, and furnish results of the said 
resettlement as reasonably requested by the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and, by October 31, 1993, complete a tariff 
study under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) immediately upon 
completion of the said study, prepare, in consultation with the Bank, a set of 
recommendations and plans to rationalize railway tariffs on the basis of results of 
the costing and other analyses; and (c) thereafter take appropriate steps to implement 
the said recommendations and plans taking into account comments, if any, made by the 
Bank.
5.
The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and, by October 31, 1993, complete a 
rail-based container transport study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank; (b) immediately upon completion
of the said study, prepare, in consultation with the Bank, a set of recommendations 
and plans for expanding and modernizing MOR's container transport services; and (c) 
thereafter take appropriate
steps to implement the said recommendations and plans taking into account comments, if 
any, made by the Bank.
6.
The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and, by October 31, 1993, complete a part of a 
cost-effective technology evaluation study, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank; (b) immediately upon completion of the said study, prepare, in consultation 
with the Bank, a set of recommendations and plans for implementing changes in railway 
technologies; and (c) thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the said 
recommendations and plans taking into account comments, if any, made by the Bank.
7.
The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and, by March 31, 1994, complete a railway 
accounting study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and develop a new 
set of accounting
standards for railways in consultation with the Bank; and (b) thereafter take 
appropriate steps to implement the said standards taking into account comments, if 
any, made by the Bank.
8.
The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and, by September 30, 1994, complete an 
environmental protection study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) 
immediately upon completion of the said study, prepare, in consultation with the Bank, 
a set of recommendations and plans for strengthening MOR's environmental protection 
capability; and (c) thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the said 
recommendations and plans taking into account comments, if any, made by the Bank.
9.
The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and, by June 30, 1995, complete an economic 
contracting system and management study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank; (b) immediately upon completion of the said study prepare, in consultation with 
the Bank, a set of recommendations and plans for improving MOR's internal management 
and its economic contracting system; and (c) thereafter take appropriate steps to 
implement the said recommendations and plans taking into account comments, if any, 
made by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
Page  12
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$23,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
Page  13
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
