Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                   E  COPY
Report No. 2407-YDR
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 23, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Yemeni Dinar (YD)
US$1.00          =   YD 0.345
US$2.90          =   YD 1.000
US$2.9 million       YD 1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)         =   0.394 inch
1 meter (m)               =   3.2808 foot
1 square meter (m2)       =   10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)          =   0.6214 mile
1 kilometer (km)          =   0.54 nautical mile
1 square kilometer (km2) =   0.3861 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)           =   2.2046 pound
1 metric ton (mt)         =   2,204.6000 pound
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
APA    -   Aden Port Authority
APAS   -   Agricultural Projects Analysis System
EEC    -   European Economic Community
MAAR   -   Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MFW    -   Ministry of Fish Wealth
NCSC   -   National Cold Storage Company
PCC    -   Project Coordinating Committee
PCCII  -   Public Corporation for Construction
and Industrial Installation
PIU    -   Project Implementation Unit
SAREC  -   Swedish Agency for Research Cooperation
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
I.   BACKGROUND                                                          Page No.
*                A.  Project Origin ............... *             ..........      .I
B.  Fisheries in the National Economy ........ ..........               1
C.  Government Policy and IDA Lending Strategy .........                I
II.  THE FISHERIES SECTOR
A.  Fish Resources ..... ........................ .......... .          2
B.  Fishing Grounds                   ....... ...... ........           3
C.  Industrial Fisheries ..............................                 3
D.  Traditional Small-Scale Fisheries .............                     5
E.  Marketing ................. . .......................               6
F.  Fish Imports and Exports          ................  ..........      7
G.  Domestic Demand .......         . ....... .................. ........ .  8
H.  Fisheries Administration .......... o...........o....               8
I.  Previous Project in the Fisheries Sector ...........    10
III. THE PROJECT AREA                                                        10
IV.  THE PROJECT
A.  Project Concept and Objectives .....................    12
B.  Detailed Features ..........  o ......        .................    12
C.  Cost Estimates ...#.............. . . ............... .            21
D.  Financing Plan ...... . ..................... ..........           22
E.  Procurement .              .............................. ... ..   23
F.  Disbursement and Retroactive Financing               .............    23
G.  Environment ..*  ..                    .......................  ......  24
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Project Organization During Implementation .... .....    24
B.  Organization and Management of Project Operations  ..    26
C. Studies               ......... 27
D.  Accounting and Auditing ............ ..           ..............    28
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation .........................    28
VI.  PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING PROSPECTS AND PRICES
A.  Fish Production .......         .............................      29
B.  Marketing ....................   o    ....................         29
C.  Prices  *- ......................................                  30
D.  Recovery of Costs .................... .      ............ ..      31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dismcsed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Beneficiaries .      ............................   31
B.  Financial Benefits ............................   32
C.  Economic Benefits  ................       ............   33
D.  Economic Rate of Return ...........................   34
E.  Risks .....................................   36
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                         38
ANNEXES
1.     Project Organization                                         39
2.     Detailed Cost Estimates                                      40
3.     Estimated Schedule of Disbursement                           41
4.     Technical Assistance:  Managing Agency Agreement              42
5.     Schedule of Works                                            43
6.     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File                                                       44
MAPS
IBRD Number 12776R
IBRD Number 12777R
IBRD Number 14053
LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS IN THE MAIN TEXT
TABLE NO.
4.1    Technical Assistance to be Provided under the Project    20
4.2    Summary Cost Estimates                                        22
4.3    Project Financing Plan                                        23
7.1    Sensitivity Analysis                                          36
CHART NO.
20006  Staff Organization Chart                                      39
20007  Schedule of Works                                             43



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin
1.01      The Government of PDRY has requested an IDA credit to assist in
financing the development of the rich fish resources in the Sixth Governorate.
The project was identified by an earlier IDA identification mission and funds
for a feasibility study were included in the IDA credit for the First Fisheries
Development Project which was approved in February 1973.
1.02      Because of difficulties experienced during preparation, which could
not have been foreseen in 1973, the funds provided under the First Fisheries
Project proved to be insufficient. In order to complete the feasibility
study for the proposed project, IDA approved US$300,000 under the Project
Preparation Facility in December 1977. The Scandinavian consulting firm,
Prosjektering, submitted a final preparation report in August 1978. On the
basis of this report the project was appraised during November 1978 by
Messrs. U. Kiermayr, F. Kada, H. Kim (IDA), W. Guckian (FAO/World Bank CP),
M. Gunawardena and S. Widing (Consultants).
B. Fisheries in the National Economy
1.03      Fish wealth is the richest known natural resource of this country
which belongs to the UN-identified group of least developed countries. Gross
value of fish production in 1976/77 fishing season was estimated at YD 15.6
million (US$45.2 million) which was substantially greater than the value of
crops and livestock, the gross production of which was YD 11.6 million
(US$33.6 million) and YD 9.6 million (US$27.8 million) respectively. Fish
exports of YD 4.2 million (US$12.2 million) in 1977 represented 59% of total
commodity exports. Another YD 3.8 million (US$11.0 million) were received in
1977 in royalties under a joint venture fishing operation from the Nichiro
Fishing Company of Japan and the Soviet/Yemeni joint venture. With 10% of GDP
and average annual real growth rates of 8%, fisheries is the most important
productive sector of the PDRY economy where industry contributes 8%, crop
production 7% and livestock 6% to the GDP. Despite the quite impressive
overall performance, the fisheries sector suffers from low productivity and
has so far developed only part of its full potential.
C. Government Policy and IDA Lending Strategy
1.04      Government policy in the fisheries sector has been guided by three
principal objectives: (i) to nationalize the previously privately managed



traditional fishery sector; (ii) to distribute the catch of this sector
efficiently throughout the country in order to increase domestic consumption
of fish and thereby reduce importation of other vital food needs; and (iii)
to increase PDRY's meager foreign exchange earnings as rapidly as possible
through higher exports by building up its own modern fishing fleet, and to
the extent this fleet was not capable of utilizing the fisheries potential of
PDRY, license foreign companies to catch at least the higher valued species
available in PDRY's waters.  These objectives were reflected in substantial
capital outlays for the sector's development under the 1974-78 First Five Year
Plan. With almost YD 23.0 million (US$66.1 million), fisheries received 14%
of the entire development funds spent between 1971 and 1977. This emphasis
on the sector's development will continue under the 1979-83 Second Five Year
Plan during which, out of a total of YD 370.0 million (US$1.07 billion), an
approximate YD 35.0 million (US$102 million) will be spent on fisheries
development. Although the country will continue to give priority to build-
ing a modern, capital intensive fisheries sector, the project will, like
under the First Fisheries Development Project, financed by IDA, balance the
Government's strategy of industrialization through orientation towards the
traditional artisanal fisheries sector whose productivity and development
potential in the past has been underestimated.
1.05      IDA's general lending strategy for PDRY aims at strengthening the
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and fisheries, with provision
for technical assistance as an integral part of each project to develop
human resources and institutions. Of high importance among IDA's develop-
ment objectives for PDRY is the promotion of import-substitution and export-
oriented projects to increase the country's foreign exchange reserves. In
fisheries, IDA aims at improving the sector's uneconomically low productivity
and at supplementing the Government's fisheries industrialization policy
through developing the artisanal small-scale fisheries sector. The credit
will fully meet these objectives.
II. THE FISHERIES SECTOR
A. Fish Resources
2.01      The exploratory fishing and research works carried out in the
past, mainly by the UNDP/FAO interregional Indian Ocean Program, indicate
that PDRY's coastal waters and the Gulf of Aden are among the most produc-
tive fishing grounds in the world. These general indications are borne out
by the more specific data collected on the commercial fishing activities in
PDRY waters. These underexploited fish resources hold substantial develop-
ment potential for this otherwise poorly endowed country; this holds, in
particular, for the Sixth Governorate where the project will be located.
2.02      The continental shelf along the coast of PDRY is mostly narrow.
The widest belt occurs off the Ras Fartak in the Sixth Governorate. The
high productivity of the Ras Fartak fishing grounds and of the area further



-3-
to the east is based on the seasonal changing of monsoon winds and the
system of currents causing pronounced upswelling of the waters along the
coast. This results in an unusually high nutrient and plankton production
which in turn is responsible for the abundance of fish.
2.03      Pelagic species such as sardines, mackerel, king fish, tuna, black
runner and queen fish are the most important commercial species. Estimates of
the pelagic fish stock in the area vary widely. Recent research surveys
place the size of the annual maximum sustainable yield at between 300,000 to
600,000 tons. Biological studies have revealed over 300 dermersal species
inhabiting this area, of which about 100 species of bottom-feeding fish are
important. The principal species of commercial importance are antakh, horse
mackerel, rock cod, sea bream, red snapper, lizard fish, ribbon fish, mormora
and barracuda. The dermersal stock size estimates vary between 180,000 and
380,000 tons with a maximum sustainable yield of between 60,000 and 90,000
tons. The most dense concentration of dermersal species has been found in
areas to the north of Ras Fartak in the Sixth Governorate.
2.04      The invertebrate resource of commercial importance is the cuttlefish
and, among the crustaceans, the deep sea spiny lobster and the rock lobster.
Cuttlefish grounds in the coastal waters of the Sixth Governorate are among
the richest in the world. Large concentrations of the species exist in the
shallow depths of areas north and west of Ras Fartak. The stock size has been
estimated at 100,000 tons with a maximum sustainable yield of 10,000 tons.
The coastal waters of the Sixth Governorate have not been systematically
surveyed to establish the stock size and grounds for rock lobster. However,
local evidence and catches suggest availability of this resource in sizeable
amounts.
B. Fishing Grounds
2.05      The territorial sea limit of the People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen extends two hundred nautical miles seaward from the low water mark
along the shore. Most of the present fishing efforts are concentrated
within the inner 18 miles of this jurisdiction. A three mile fishing zone
is reserved for the traditional small-scale fishermen. No industrial
fishing vessel, domestic or foreign, is permitted to fish within this
three mile zone. There appear to be no disputes over fishing grounds with
countries adjacent to the Gulf of Aden.
C. Industrial Fisheries
2.06      PDRY's strategy for fisheries development over the last six to eight
years was almost exclusively oriented towards the sector's rapid industrializa-
tion. Practically all funds allocated to fisheries development under the
public investment program went into the acquisition of big industrial fishing
vessels and construction of associated marine and shore facilities.



-4-
2.07      The Fisheries Department of the Ministry of Fish Wealth (MFW) pres-
ently owns a fleet of 17 new and second hand trawlers of different types
acquired from Japan, the Soviet Union and the People's Democratic Republic of
China. Two more trawlers are on order from the Soviet Union. Production of
the industrial vessels, consisting mainly of cuttle fish, snapper and deep sea
lobster, is primarily for export. To supply raw material for the country's
floating and shore-based fish meal and fish oil plants, the Yemeni Fish Meal
Company owns a fleet of eight purse seiners with five more on order from Japan.
2.08      Productivity of these industrial fishing fleets is extremely low.
The average total catch of the trawler fleet in 1976 and 1977 was 5,200 tons
against a potential catch capacity of about 25,000 tons. The purse seiners
landed 9,000 tons of sardines to be converted into fish meal and oil which
fell considerably short of a budgeted raw material requirement of 64,000
tons. This low productivity is the direct result of the country's rapidly
implemented policy of industrializing the sector. The industry now is plagued
by severe shortages of trained technicians, fleet operators and managers. So
far the country does not have one single Yemeni skipper, licensed to command
one of the industrial vessels. The situation is further aggravated by lack
of standardization of equipment. With the available manpower and financial
resources for spare parts and ancillary equipment, only about 15-20% of the
vessels are operating at a time.
2.09      The effect of the fleet's low productivity extends into the sector's
forward integrated industries. Fish meal and oil production so far have
never exceeded 15-16% of installed capacities. Fish canning at Shuqra in the
Third Governorate, although in operation since 1976, has never come close to
full production. All cold storage facilities installed along the coast, meant
to absorb fish for domestic supply and export, operate far below capacities.
To improve the utilization of existing capacities and to recover at least
part of the massive investment outlays sunk into fisheries industrialization,
a concerted effort of. technical assistance, training, integration and conso-
lidation will have to be undertaken with overriding priority.
2.10      To supplement revenues from domestic fishing operations and to
more efficiently exploit the country's rich fish resources, the Government
has issued fishing licenses to two Japanese fishing concerns (Nichiro and
Taiyo) and has entered into a joint venture operation with the Soviet Union.
A fourth joint venture operation with Iraq is about to commence. The value
of fish produced by the foreign vessels operating under the joint venture
agreements in 1976 was almost twice the amount produced by the country's own
industrial fishing vessels. The Japanese joint venture vessels only catch
cuttle fish for which there is a high demand in Japan. The Soviet joint
venture operation mainly catches spiny deep sea lobster in waters adjacent
to PDRY. Of the 170,000 tons of fish caught in PDRY waters in 1976 the
share of the MFW's industrial fishing fleet was less than 9%.



-5-
D. Traditional Small-Scale Fisheries
2.11      While the industrialization of the Aden based fisheries sector
has been promoted beyond the system's absorptive capacity, the country's
traditional small-scale sector has received practically no development
assistance. The only major exception was the IDA-financed First Fisheries
Development Project which among other components provided 100 traditional
wooden fishing vessels, which today form the backbone of the traditional
fishing fleet in the western part of the country.
2.12      The small-scale traditional fisheries sector is based on approxi-
mately 40, mainly small, fishing villages scattered along the country's 1,500
km coastline. Compared with the industrial sector, the traditional fisheries
sector is by far the more important and productive means of fisheries exploita-
tion in PDRY. During the 1976/77 fishing season, the traditional sector
landed an estimated 137,000 tons compared with 5,200 tons landed by the
industrial sector. A comparison of the productivity per fishermen engaged in
the two sectors is also more favorable to the traditional sector. Ultimately,
the fishing industry of PDRY would have to undergo substantial modernization.
Viewed, however, against today's available trained manpower resources, the
traditional small-scale fisheries sector is highly competitive in terms
of productivity and efficiency. Investments in the traditional sector have
therefore a much higher and faster pay off than investments in the country's
industrial fisheries sector.
2.13      The traditional fishermen population is estimated at 13,000 with the
biggest concentration around Shuqra (Third Governorate) and Al Gheida (Sixth
Governorate). The sector is organized in 14 cooperatives with a membership
of 4,150 full-time and 1,850 seasonal members. Cooperative membership has
reached now about 50% of the fishermen population, up from 25% five years ago.
2.14      Traditional fishing vessels are of three types:  the inboard sambuk
(large sambuk), the outboard sambuk (small sambuk) and the huri. The inboard
sambuk usually is of 42 to 45 feet in length, has an inboard engine of 22-45
hp and is operated by a crew of between 7-10 fishermen. The catch capacity
per fishing trip is about 0.5 ton. The outboard sambuk is considerably
smaller, its size ranges from 20-24 feet, has an outboard engine of about
6 hp and has a crew of 3-4 fishermen. Per fishing trip it can catch up to
0.3 ton of fish. The hurl is the smallest fishing vessel; it is a canoe type
which is powered by oars or sail and usually requires only one fisherman.
It can catch up to 0.1 ton per fishing trip. There are no accurate figures
available concerning total number, composition and age distribution of the
traditional fishing fleet. In the 14 cooperatives, 864 sambuks of both
types and 542 huris were registered in 1978.
2.15      Under the first IDA-financed Fisheries Development Project, one
hundred 45-foot inboard sambuks were provided, of which 26 were handed over
to the MFW's Small Boats Division, while the bulk of the remaining boats
went to the cooperatives in th'- Fourth and Fifth Governorates. These vessels



-6-
are of traditional design with only slight modifications to accommodate
the 30-40 hp engines and to improve their stability in rough sea. In the
course of constructing the 100 vessels, the two domestic boatyards at Aden
and Mukalla have developed an impressive boat building capability from which
the project will greatly benefit as 35 traditional fishing vessels will be
built and equipped there. The IDA financed fishing vessels known in the
country as "IDA-Sambuks" have been well received by the traditional fishermen
and have substantially improved their catch capacities.  Today most of the
fish supplied to the markets in the main consumption centers in the western
parts of the country are landed by "IDA-Sambuks".
2.16      The most prominent fishing vessel in the project area is by far
the small outboard sambuk, which is well adapted to the prevalent fishing
method of the area. It is sufficiently stable when empty and has good
stability when loaded. Its local method of construction is unique. The
deckless, wooden boat is built without the use of nails. Holes are drilled
into the shell boards, the frame and the stem, which are then bound together
with nylon twine recovered from discarded fishing gear. The boat is made
leak proof by coats of a gel made from shark fat. The catch capacity of the
boat is 200-300 kg per fishing trip. The average age of the fishing boats
in the project area is between 12 and 15 years. No boats were acquired
after 1968, the year most fishing vessels were nationalized-and became the
property of the Eastern District Fisheries Cooperative. The main fishing
gear used are handlines, bottom long-lines and gill nets. During the sardine
and anchovy season, beach seiners and cast nets are used. The mesh size of
the gill nets range from 4-5 inches, the bottom long-line carries up to 30-40
hooks. The catch is mainly comprised of sardines, anchovies, sharks, king
fish, mackerel, rock cod, snapper and lobster. The fishermen usually start
fishing early in the morning around 6 a.m. and return to shore around noon.
No catch data exists for the area, however, estimates indicate that catches
landed in the project area are between 3,800 to 4,000 tons per year. These
low figures are indicative for the depressed state of fisheries in the project
area where the natural and economic conditions keep fisheries at subsistence
level.
E. Marketing
2.17      The fish catch is commonly landed on the beach where it is sold
fresh, dried or smoked. In the First, Second, Third and Fourth Governorates,
fish marketing is handled by the MFW's Internal Marketing Division. This
Division is organized in five branches. It employs a work force of 1,200 who
operate several marketing outlets located mainly in smaller towns along the
coast and in some cases in the interior. For collection and distribution, the
Internal Marketing Division operates a fleet of trucks, some of them with
refrigeration units, and pickups, some with mounted insulated containers.
2.18      All of the catches landed in the First, Second, Third and Fourth
Governorate are sold by the respective cooperative to the Internal Marketing
Division. Purchase and selling prices are fixed by the Presidential Political



Committee. The fish purchased is iced, wherever possible, and sold fresh.
Any excess is transported for freezing and storage to one of the cold stores
to be released when supplies of fresh fish are not sufficient to meet the
demand. The Internal Marketing Division also purchases fish from the MFW's
Small Boats Division, the unexportable varieties from joint venture vessels
and the MFW's industrial fleet. During 1977, the Internal Marketing Division
sold 7,700 tons of fish in the country's first four Governorates, of which 60%
were sold in the First Governorate (Aden and its hinterland). The Internal
Marketing Division's share of fish handling is relatively small compared to
the total national catch. This is because sardines and anchovies which
account for about 60% of all fish landed in PDRY are not handled by that
Division on a regular basis.
2.19      In the Fifth and Sixth Governorates, the Internal Marketing Divi-
sion's role is presently confined to the purchase of lobster and purchase and
distribution of dried fish, mostly shark and some sardines and anchovies.
Responsibility for distributing fresh fish in these governorates lies with
cooperatives and licensed wholesalers and retailers. In contrast to other
parts of the country, fish prices are not fixed but fluctuate freely with
changes in supply and demand. These "free" fish prices are usually much
higher than the prices fixed by the Government in other Governorates. The
difference in fish prices sometimes exceeds 100%.
2.20      Although ice production has been increased lately, the traditional
fishing vessels do not take ice on their fishing trips and fish handling is
very poor.  The landed fish is thrown on the beach and dirty floors with
practically no water available for cleaning. Fish containers such as boxes or
baskets are not regularly cleaned. All this contributes to the usually very
low quality of fish arriving at the retail marketing outlets.
F. Fish Imports and Exports
2.21      Prior to 1975, approximately 1,900 tons of canned fish were imported
annually into the country from Japan. Since then the imports of fish were
restricted to smaller quantities for use by the military forces and the expa-
triate community. In addition to commercial imports, fish products were
brought into the country as part of international aid programs. An estimated
400 tons of canned fish have been provided by the World Food Program during
1978.
2.22      All fish exports are handled by the MFW's Central Marketing Divi-
sion. Ninety percent of the exports consist of high-value species like
cuttlefish, rock lobster tails and deep sea lobster tails. A small quantity
of snapper and shark fins are also exported. Of the dried fish production
approximately 35% are exported mainly to Sri Lanka and East Africa. Total
exports during 1977, excluding the joint venture operations, amounted to an
equivalent of YD 4.2 million (US$12.2 million). PDRY's fish export markets
are still very few. To develop the country's fish export potential, a con-
certed effort will be required to upgrade the quality of fish presently



-8-
exported, promote new exportable species and both intensify and diversify the
country's present export markets.
2.23      Projections indicate that, in the long run, domestic demand for fish
will grow at a lower rate than-projected production targets so that more
emphasis in the future will have to be placed on export development. Export
potential for some of PDRY's traditional products is rather limited while some
of its less developed products hold strong export potential. Salted and dried
fish can only be sold in neighboring countries, while demand in some high
income countries is strong for snapper, rock cod, sea bream, tuna, skipjack
and dog fish. The traditional fisheries sector in PDRY could play a very
important role in exploiting the country's rich fish resources for export.
Major improvements in fish handling during and after fishing are however
absolutely essential to meet the strict hygienic regulations imposed by the
developed countries on imported fish and fish products. The low quality
standards of all landed fish, with the exception of cuttlefish and lobster
tails, and the complete lack of personnel with experience in the international
fish trade are the major constraints for export development.
G. Domestic Demand
2.24      In the absence of reliable fish landing and distribution records,
it is not possible to provide accurate per capita fish consumption figures
for PDRY. The predominant species in the national catch, for domestic con-
sumption, are sardines which are almost all sundried and whose use is almost
exclusively for animal feed and fertilizer. Dried shark and the major part of
the canned fish still being imported are consumed in the interior of the
country, mainly the Wadi Hadramawt area. Fresh fish is consumed only in
coastal regions and frozen fish up until now is only consumed in Aden where it
is released from cold storage during scarcities of wet fish. As soon as the
road connection between Mukalla and Seiyun in the Wadi Hadramawt is completed,
frozen fish will be shipped there from the IDA-financed 800 ton cold storage
at Mukalla. Consumption of wet fish is high in coastal areas as most families
eat three meals of fish daily. The growth of domestic consumption will
primarily depend on the development of the country's transportation network.
H.  Fisheries Administration
2.25      Before 1977, PDRY's fisheries were administered by the Public
Corporation of Fish Wealth (PCFW).  This organization, which came under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR), was responsible for
developing the fisheries industry. In addition to the development of the
country's fishing fleet, it was charged with domestic marketing, research,
training and credit services for fisheries cooperatives. Realizing the
importance of the fisheries sector for the country's economy, the PCFW was
upgraded in 1977 to the rank of a ministry and was named the Ministry of Fish
Wealth. The MFW has, in addition to its administrative, fiscal and regulatory



duties, the responsibility for operation and management of the industrial
fleet, the Small Boats Division, cold stores, fish processing plants, joint
venture operations and domestic and export marketing. Training and research
are also the Ministry's responsibility. Chart 2006 illustrates MFW's orga-
nization. The MFW's planning department is responsible for preparing invest-
ment proposals and supervising all ongoing development projects.
2.26      Until recently, all fisheries cooperatives came under the control of
the Cooperative Department of the MAAR. To improve the coordination between
the fisheries cooperatives and the MFW's operations, responsibility for the
fisheries cooperatives has been recently transferred to a newly formed Coop-
erative Department within the MFW. This department is responsible for reorga-
nizing the cooperatives, providing them with technical and financial assis-
tance and providing training to their technical and administrative personnel.
2.27      All necessary requirements for the establishment of a National Cold
Storage Company (NCSC) have recently been completed and the Prime Minister's
final approval is expected shortly. The objectives of the NCSC will include
the operation and management of all cold stores and ice plants in the country.
The NCSC will sell services to the industrial and the traditional fisheries
sector as well as to other sectors of the economy such as the agency respon-
sible for importing meat, fruit and vegetables. It will also be responsible
for planning and supervising the construction of new cold stores and ice
making facilities.
2.28      To train local technicians in basic fisheries techniques the MFW
operates a small training center in Aden. For training at more advanced
levels, PDRY receives substantial assistance from the Soviet Union which pro-
vides scholarships to Yemeni fishermen, technicians and scientists. FAQ
provides one fisheries advisor to the MFW and the Taiyo Fishing Company of
Japan provides assistance for the operation of the 500 ton fishmeal barge.
To operate the industrial fishing fleet, the MFW has to recruit qualified
personnel from abroad.
2.29      Broad organizational changes are presently being considered for the
MFW to improve its organizational structure. Since the establishment of the
PCFW in 1970, the staff in the country's fisheries administration has increased
from 300 to 2,990, not including the 700 crew members of the industrial fish-
ing fleet. Aside from structural changes, substantial improvements in the
quality and competence of the MFW's staff at all levels is necessary. A wide
discrepancy has evolved over the last seven to eight years between the tech-
nical requirements of the investments made by the MFW and its technical and
managerial capability. To rectify this situation, major training and tech-
nical assistance efforts have to be undertaken with highest priority. A
further overcharging of the country's limited technical, administrative and
managerial resources through investment in a highly mechanized production
capacity with unmanageable requirements would result in substantial losses to
the economy. The rationale for the project acknowledges these limitations.
Wherever possible the project will rely on the traditional and proven fisheries
capabilities. Extension facilities built into the project will lead to higher
productivity in the traditional sector. Where no substitute for modern



- 10 -
technology exists, the project will provide sufficient training and technical
assistance to safeguard the investments from being underutilized or being
rendered inoperational.
I. Previous Project in the Fisheries Sector
2.30      As mentioned earlier, IDA has financed one fisheries development
project in PDRY (Credit 370-YDR). An initial credit of US$3.5 million was
made in 1973, which was supplemented by US$1.6 million in 1975 to cover
increased costs due to foreign and domestic inflation. The project provided
for: (i) construction of shore facilities for processing, freezing and cold
storage at Mukalla and Shihr; (ii) construction of 100 traditional fishing
vessels; (iii) technical assistance and consultant studies relating to shore
facilities, engineering, management of MFW and fisheries development, as well
as agricultural and water supply studies in the country's north eastern
provinces. Although the project has encountered a number of major problems
and implementation was about two years behind schedule, the project has been
very successful. The shore facility built under the project in Mukalla will
be the terminal for all fresh and frozen fish supplies to be shipped to the
main consumption center in the Wadi Hadramawt. Shipments there will commence
as soon as the main parts of the Mukalla-Seiyun road are completed, which is
expected to be by mid-1981. The 100 fishing vessels supplied under the proj-
ect substantially strengthened the productive capacity of the traditional
fisheries subsector, and from the project's institution building efforts
subsequent projects will greatly benefit, particularly in the field of credit
to be supplied to cooperatives for the purchase of fishing vessels, engines
and gear.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area is located in the eastern part of the Sixth Gover-
norate bordered by the Ras Fartak in the west and the Omani border in the
east. Long stretches of sandy beaches backed by deserts and hills up to 800
m in altitude characterize the coastline which is interspersed with sections
of precipitous, rocky cliffs, some of considerable height dropping vertically
into deep water.  The alignment is virtually unbroken by natural coves or
bays except at three locations, of which only the Nishtun bay is deep enough
and sufficiently protected from the NE and SW monsoons to make port construc-
tion feasible. The project area is very much isolated from the western parts
of the country mainly due to a complete lack of transportation infrastructure.
Access by land via Seiyun in the Wadi Hadramawt is possible only over 300 km
of rough vehicle tracks leading over some very difficult terrain causing pro-
hibitive transportation costs. Access by sea is impossible during the monsoon
seasons and otherwise limited because of lack of berthing and unloading
facilities resulting in heavy loss of and damage to cargo. These unfavorable
conditions have been mainly responsible for the slow development of the area
compared to other parts of the country.



- 11 -
3.02      The project area is extremely poor in natural resources except for
fish, of which it has one of the richest underexploited stocks offshore. This
resource is utilized only at subsistence level as no access to outside markets
exists. The only exceptions are shark and rock lobster. Shark is dried
right on the beach and directly shipped into the interior. Rock lobster is
collected in small quantities and stored at the Tabut cold store from where
the entire catch is shipped to Aden at the end of the season. The natural
conditions of the area have developed a self-sufficient, fish-based economic
environment with very little exchange with other sectors of the economy. The
means of production seem to be perfectly balanced with the needs of the local
inhabitants. The only animal protein available other than from fish is camel
milk, the production of which depends heavily on fish, as camels are fed up to
15 kg of dried sardines per day. An estimated 80-90% of the non-protein foods
are imported into the area from western Governorates.
3.03      The project area comprises nine fishing villages dispersed over
approximately 150 km of coastline with a total population of about 10,000.
The fishermen population consists of 440 full-time and about 500 seasonal
fishermen. The seasonal fishermen leave their inland villages and come to
the coast during the main fishing season, after which they return to their
villages, being paid mainly in the form of dried sardines which they feed to
their animals and use as fertilizer. The fishing fleet of the project area
consists of 26 huris, 122 small sambuks and 7 large sambuks.
3.04      The project area's potential for fisheries development is substan-
tial. The area has abundant resources of high value species in nearby fishing
grounds, a community of skilled fishermen and reasonable means of production.
Major exploitation of the areas fish resources requires the establishment of
a fish delivery system which will link the area's production with the country's
main consumption centers and export markets.
3.05      The necessary link to the outside world will consist of a complex
of facilities which will be able to handle fish collection, processing,
storage and transshipment. Nishtun Bay, because of its protection and water
depth, has been chosen as the location for the proposed fisheries base.
Nishtun is located east of Ras Fartak, 1,500 km by land and 500 nautical miles
by sea from Aden. The village consists of about 50 houses and has a total
population of about 500. Although Nishtun Bay lends itself ideally to the
construction of a port, the area is difficult to reach by land, as it is
surrounded by mountain ridges and has no fresh water resources. To tap the
rich fish resources in the eastern part of the Sixth Governorate, substantial
investments in infrastructure and service facilities will be undertaken. The
marketing prospects for the area's fish wealth are, however, excellent, which
will make it possible to recover the necessary investments within an acceptable
period of time.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Objectives
4.01      The project is designed to assist in developing the efficient
exploitation of the abundant stocks of dermersal and pelagic fish in the
waters off the coast of the Sixth Governorate. Because of the lack of access
to any outside market, the project area's enormous productive potential is
presently being utilized only for the local population's subsistence require-
ments. The project will provide the infrastructure facilities and the tech-
nical and managerial capability that are necessary to overcome the project
area's physical and economic isolation.
4.02      The project will be based primarily on the traditional small scale
fisheries potential of Nishtun and the eight fishing villages located to the
east, towards the Omani border. By means of a land-based collection system,
the fish landed in these villages will be delivered to the fish processing
and storage facilities to be established within the port to be built at
Nishtun from where the fish will be directly exported or transshipped to the
main consumption centers in the western part of the country. The facilities
at Nishtun will also be utilized by traditional fishing vessels migrating to
the project area during the main fishing season and during the monsoon, as
well as on occasion by foreign and domestic industrial fishing vessels.
4.03      The emphasis of the project will be to gradually upgrade the
area's age-old fishing technology to higher levels of productivity and to
provide more productive employment for the local labor force for whom no
alternative employment opportunity exists in the area. The project will be
by far the largest development effort ever undertaken in the area east of
Mukalla and, because of its infrastructure components, the project's scope
will not be limited to the exploitation of the fish resources of the area,
but it will act as a focal point for the development of the entire region.
B. Detailed Features
4.04      The project's objectives will be achieved by providing and imple-
menting the following components:
(a) a fisheries cum general cargo port;
(b)  fish receiving, processing and storage facilities;
(c)  fishing vessels, outboard engines, fishing gear, repair and
maintenance facilities;
(d)  road improvement and fresh water supply;



- 13 -
(e) technical assistance and training; and
(f) studies.
Fisheries Cum General Cargo Port
4.05      To accommodate the projected pattern of usage and the projected fish
and general cargo handling, the following facilities and capacities will be
installed:
General Marine Facilities for Both Fisheries and General Cargo Usage
(a) A breakwater approximately 290 m long, in depths from 1 to
7.5 m, designed for a wave of 3.9 m. Armor of requisite size
rock or concrete units of dolos or tetrapod-type construc-
tion will be provided. Rock material excavated from the
area of the shore facilities will be used for the construc-
tion of the breakwater.
(b) Reclaimed area of approximately 36,000 m2 from depths of
0 to 6 m maximum with rip-rap protection.
(c) Rock filled groyne, 100 m long to be constructed in the
inner basin to cut off sand intrusion by sea action into
the harbor basin.
(d) Quays of the following dimensions constructed of mass
concrete blocks placed on specially levelled foundations
underwater on the sea bed:
Length             Width           Depth at Low Tide
…--------------------…meters…---------------------
45                20                 2.5-4
45                20                   4-6
110                20                   6-7.5
In addition, a sambuk landing and berthing facility of
140 m in length and 2 m in depth alongside, backing onto
the fish unloading and processing area, will be provided.
(e) Small boats' repair yard with ramped winch system.
(f) Navigation aids.
(g) Appropriate fender system, quayside ladders, bollards and
ducting for services.
General Cargo Handling Facilities
A covered storage area will be provided for the projected 75,000
tons of general cargo per year. To handle this traffic 4 to 5 3t



- 14 -
mobile cranes, 6 tractor trailer units and 4 forklifts will be
provided.
Service Facilities
(a) Sea water. Sea water will be supplied for cooling of con-
densors in the cold store and diesel engines in the genera-
tor building, as well as for cleaning of fish and for cleaning
up purposes.
(b) Power generation. Electric power will be provided for the
entire port and fish processing and storage facilities.
Three diesel-driven generators, each of 625 KVA output will
be installed, Two units will meet the designed load and the
third is for standby.
(c) Oil products. Diesel oil and petrol will be provided from
3,300 m3 and 100 m3 tanks respectively, to meet the projected
18,000 tons annual requirement. The system is designed to
supply diesel oil to sambuks, trawlers and small coastal
vessels, as well as for power generating. Petrol will be
provided for the outboard engines of the traditional fishing
craft. Other oil products such as lubricants, kerosene, etc.,
will be available from drums to be stored in a fenced area.
(d) Repair and maintenance. A central mechanical workshop and an
associated boat repair yard will provide repair and mainte-
nance services for engines and hulls of traditional vessels.
Project trucks and other vehicles will also be serviced by
this facility. A store will maintain a stock of all neces-
sary spare parts.
Fisheries Facilities
4.06      Nishtun Port will be the location of the terminal facilities for
the project's fisheries system. The capacities of these facilities are laid
out to receive, clean, process, pack and store a projected 6,800 tons of
fresh fish per year or about two-thirds of the fish landed in the nine pro-
ject villages. Fish delivered at the terminal will be cleaned, sorted,
graded and weighed in a special fish receiving area from where it will be
moved to the respective processing line for deheading, gutting, tailing, etc.
Before freezing to minus 30 degrees C the packed or bulked fish will be
precooled to below 5 degrees C.  The frozen fish will be stored either in
cartons on pallets or in bulk in one of the four 200 ton cold rooms where it
will await shipment directly for export or for domestic consumption. Within
the processing and storage complex an ice factory will produce up to 40 tons
of flake ice every 24 hours. To guarantee a continuous supply of ice for the
nine fishing villages and ships calling at Nishtun Port up to 150 tons of ice
uill be in store.  For administration of the terminal's activities the
necessary facilities will be provided on the premises.



- 15 -
4.07      The intensive heat in the project area and the rough fish handling
by the local fishermen will demand particular efforts to protect the catches
from perishing rapidly. The land-based fish collection system is designed
to meet this requirement effectively. As soon as the fish is landed it will
be placed on ice in insulated boxes and loaded on insulated trucks to be
shipped to one of the two fish receiving stations strategically located at
Muhayfif and Feidami. There the fish arriving from various villages will
be collected and transshipped onto larger refrigerated trucks to be hauled
to the terminal in Nishtun Port.
Fisheries Cooperative Development
4.08      By far the most popular fishing vessel in the project area is the
locally built 20 to 24 foot outboard sambuk. For replacing the oldest ves-
sels in the project area and for a modest expansion of the traditional fleet,
this vessel type will be recommended to be provided under the project. It
has evolved as the one best adapted to the local marine conditions and fish-
ing practices. One of the major successes of the first IDA-financed Fisheries
Development Project was the procurement of a locally well-proven traditional
fishing vessel which was readily accepted by the local fishermen. A total
of 35 new fishing vessels will be provided under the project, of which 27
will replace old vessels and 8 will add to the existing fleet. As a pilot
operation, the suitability and acceptability of more advanced fishing vessels
will be tested under the project to identify a type of fishing vessel that
could at a later stage replace the traditional fishing vessel. For that
purpose the fisheries advisor (para 4.16) will recommend the procurement
of three to four small modern type fishing vessels which will be integrated
into the local fleet to be tried out by the local fishermen under realistic
conditions.
4.09      As most of the outboard engines now in use in the project area have
long passed their economic life and consequently cause long delays between
fishing trips due to frequent breakdowns, the better part of the entire fleet
will be re-equipped with new 6 to 8 hp outboard engines. A total of 100
engines will be supplied under the project. Since adequate and timely supply
of spare parts will be essential for an uninterrupted supply of fish from
the villages, adequate supplies of the most common spare parts will be made
available under the project. Repair and maintenance assistance for the fish-
ing fleet will be provided by a mobile workshop which will operate on demand
in the nine project villages along the coast.
Road Construction and Fresh Water Supply
4.10      To facilitate a land-based fish collection system which is designed
to process fish collected several times a day from the eight villages east of
Nishtun, 19 km of hard surfaced road will need to be constructed to Tabut
from thereon eastwards adequate tracks exist. The road will be built to the
standards prevailing in the country for roads of this type. The entire cargo
traffic from and to Nishtun Port will be accommodated by this road.
4.11      The supply of fresh water to Nishtun Port and the shore facilities
will pose the most difficult problem project implementation will have to



- 16 -
overcome. The only proven source of fresh water known at present is located
in the Wadi Fuari some 40 km away from Nishtun. The problem of distance is
aggravated by the very difficult terrain which separates the well at Wadi
Fuari from Nishtun. Several options for making fresh water available at
Nishtun from this source have been carefully investigated. The most obvious
choices are trucking the water, bringing it via pipeline, or producing it
through desalinization, including any combination of the three. The appraisal
mission has been informed of a small well drilling program the Governor's
office in Al Gheida is conducting to relieve the area of its severe shortage
of potable water. As this program could produce a more suitable source of
fresh water than presently known, it is proposed to keep the designs for the
fresh water supply component of the project as flexible as possible until the
program's final results become available or the project implementation schedule
requires a final decision. As only improvement over the present situation is
expected from the well drilling program, all new design alternatives could be
accommodated within the present cost calculation.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.12      Technical assistance will be provided during three phases of
the project, that is: before implementation, during implementation and dur-
ing initial operation. In addition, the project will provide technical
assistance directly to the MFW to help improve the Ministry's operations in
three critical fields.
4.13      Technical Assistance before Project Implementation.  A firm of
engineering consultants will be appointed to prepare detailed designs for
the project's civil works facilities, to prepare tender documents and to
evaluate the bids for the Government to award contracts. To finance this
activity before the credit becomes effective, IDA has approved an advance
of US$550,000 under the Project Preparation Facility.
4.14      Technical Assistance during Project Implementation.  To implement
the project a well qualified expatriate ports engineer with experience in
building fishing ports and related shore facilities will be appointed as
project manager. Together with two local counterparts, one from the Aden Port
Authority and one from the MFW, the project manager will plan, coordinate
and supervise the implementation of the various project components.
4.15      A firm of consulting engineers will be appointed and assign two
experts as Government representatives to directly supervise all civil works
carried out by the contractors at the construction sites at Nishtun. Prefer-
ably the same consulting firm, which prepares the detailed designs, will be
retained for construction supervision.
4.16      Two years before the project will become operational, a fisheries
advisor will be appointed. He will have a wide range of responsibilities.
His prime concern will be to prepare the fishermen in the nine project
villages for their participation in the project. The fishermen will have
to modify their fishing habits and traditions which are well-suited for a
subsistence-oriented production system but will not quite meet the require-
ments of a commercial system intended to maximize production. The fisheries



- 17 -
advisor will introduce the necessary changes into the fishermen's approach
towards size and composition of catches, treatment of fish after catch, etc.
For the proposed pilot operation intended to upgrade the traditional fishing
vessels in the future, the fisheries advisor will select and introduce the
three to four advanced fishing vessels to be tested by the local fishermen.
In addition to these defined functions, the fisheries advisor will provide
any assistance and advice related to the fisheries aspects of the project
during its implementation phase.
4.17      Technical Assistance During Initial Operation.  For the successful
operation of an integrated fisheries scheme as proposed under the project,
an innovative and efficient management is critical. As the success of the
project will primarily depend on the commercial performance of its fisheries
operation, technical assistance will have to be provided in a form which
goes beyond a mere advisory function. Those in charge of the operation
of the project will have to get directly involved in mobilizing the produc-
tive resources of the area to assure the utilization of the installed capa-
cities at economic levels. Under these conditions, the most suitable way of
providing the necessary technical assistance will be in the form of a man-
agement agency agreement with a successful ongoing fisheries concern with
international experience. The selected fisheries concern will provide a team
of three experts: one dealing with the general and commercial management and
administration of the Nishtun shore facilities; one handling the processing
and storage of fish delivered to Nishtun; and one organizing the timing and
logistics in the villages for the daily procurement of fish to the Nishtun
facilities.   The remuneration package for such an agency would be structured
so that the expatriate personnel's salaries, as well as an adequate company
overhead, will be guaranteed. To provide an incentive for the management
agency to maximize production and quality, the remuneration package will
provide for payment of a production commission arranged on a sliding scale,
i.e., increasing with higher quantities of fish collected and processed. The
productive potential of the project and its self-sufficient logistical,
processing and services systems will make it highly suitable for a management
agency agreement as proposed. A detailed description of the proposed manage-
ment agreement is provided in Annex 4.
4.18      Technical Assistance to the MFW.  Although a major technical assis-
tance effort has been proposed by IDA to be included in a possible Third
Fisheries Project, some technical assistance to the MFW will be included
in the present project. The areas as described in paras 2.08 and 2.09 where
assistance is considered most critical and where it should not be deferred,
concern the MFW's industrial fishing fleet, its chain of cold stores and the
export of fish. The project will provide as a first step one expert each for
these three sectors for an initial period of three years totalling nine
man-years. The experts will be stationed in the MFW in Aden and be given
operational responsibilities and be recruited as a team from an experienced
consulting firm, specializing in fisheries operations and management. An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that these three experts with
qualifications satisfactory to the Association would be employed not later
than June 30, 1980.



- 18 -
4.19      Training.  Because of the country's extreme shortage of technically
qualified personnel, the project will make provisions to fill key operational
positions with staff who underwent specialized training overseas arranged
for by the project. During project implementation, well before it becomes
operational, the project manager together with representatives from the MFW
will recommend promising candidates to be sent to specialised fisheries
training institutions and/or be seconded to work in fisheries corporations.
A total of seven candidates will be sent abroad to receive training in fish-
eries administration (two candidates), fisheries extension (two candidates),
fish processing, cold store management and refrigeration engineering. On
average each candidate will receive two years of training overseas adding
up to a total of 14 man-years of operational training. Similarly, together
with representatives of the Aden Port Authority (APA), the project manager
will select two candidates to receive training in fisheries harbor operation
and management for an average of two years. The project will provide for a
total of 18 man-years of training, all of which with special emphasis on
practical operations. The objective is to have a core of well-trained opera-
tional staff available when the project becomes operational. The trainees
will receive further training on the job by working together with the team of
expatriate experts who will operate the project's facilities and manage its
commercial operations during the initial phase of the project's life until the
Yemeni staff are experienced enough to take over. During negotiations an
assurance was obtained that the proposed training program would be carried
out and completed prior to the project becoming operational.
Studies
4.20      Nutrition Survey.  The project will provide funds for a second
phase national nutritional survey in PDRY. This survey will complement an
earlier study, entitled the "Growth and Nutrition During the first Three Years
of Life in South Yemeni Children," which was carried out jointly during 1977
by the Swedish Agency for Research Cooperation with Developing Countries
(SAREC) and the Swedish Save the Children Federation. These two groups have
expressed their interest in conducting the proposed IDA-financed second phase
survey which will help to formulate a strategy for the improvement of health
and nutrition conditions in PDRY. A total of about 10 man-months will be
required to complete the survey. The cost of the survey has been estimated
at US$70,000.
4.21      Miscellaneous Occasional Studies.  Some funds will be set aside for
the financing of small occasional studies which might become necessary during
the four-year implementation period or during early operation of this highly
complex and integrated project. One of the project components for which an
additional small study might prove desirable is the fresh water supply com-
ponent if a new source of groundwater is discovered in the course of the
drilling program (para 4.11). Provision for about 12 manmonths and associated
travel will be included to cover the costs of occasional small studies.
State of Engineering
4.22      The Scandivanian consulting firm, Prosjectering, has prepared the
feasibility study for the project, including all preliminary designs and bills



- 19 -
of quantities on the basis of which present costs have ben calculated. To
allow project implementation to begin shortly after credit effectiveness,
detailed designs and the necessary tender documents are presently being
prepared and are being financed through the Project Preparation Facility (para
4.13). The consultants will also prequalify contractors, supervise tendering
and evaluate the received bids.
4.23      The following table provides a breakdown of the technical assis-
tance provided under the project:



- 20 -
Table 4.1: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED UNDER THE PROJECT
Project Phase                       Assignment in Project Year        Duration
Beginning           Ending       man/years
Before Implementation
Type of Expert
Consulting engineers
(detailed designs)               0                  0              4
During Implementation
Type of Expert
Project manager                     1                 4              4
Consulting engineers
(two, construction
supervision)                     1                  4              8
Fisheries advisor                  3                  4              2
During Initial Operation
Type of Expert
Industrial fisheries manager       5                  7              3
Fish processing engineer           5                  7              3
Fish procurement advisor           5                  7              3
Miscellaneous Technical
Assistance
National Nutrition Survey                                              0.8
Occasional Studies                                                     1
Total Man/Years/or Project                                            28.8
Technical Assistance to MFW
Type of Expert
Industrial fishing fleet
manager                                                           3
Fish export marketing
specialist                                                        3
Cold store chain manager                                            3
Total Technical Assistance
to MFW                                                            9
Total Technical Assistance
provided under the project                                            37.8



- 21 -
C. Cost Estimates
4.24      Total project cost is estimated at YD 11.03 million (US$32.0 mil-
lion equivalent) including contingencies. The foreign exchange component
is YD 7.7 million (US$22.4 million equivalent) or 70% of the total project
cost. Annex 2 shows details of the cost estimate and a summary is given in
Table 4.2.
4.25      The civil works cost estimates have been prepared from information
obtained from the feasibility study prepared by Prosjektering A.S. in 1978,
and from prices given by local and foreign contractors working on the port
under construction at Mukalla/Khalf. They reflect prices current during the
second half of 1978. Equipment costs are based on quotations from foreign
suppliers at the end of 1977, and adjusted to end 1978.
4.26      The physical contingency applied is 20% on the marine works and
water supply, 10% on other civil works and 5% on equipment and other project
components. These are considered adequate since there are no major uncertain-
ties regarding soil and other construction data. An average price contingency
of 20% of total project cost including physical contingencies has been allowed
for expected inflation; this is based on an annual rate of inflation of below
6% during the previous three years and 6% that has been projected for PDRY
throughout 1981, applicable to local components, 6% for foreign procured
equipment and 7% for foreign contracted civil works.
4.27      Since the PDRY Government exempts import components of development
projects from import taxes, the cost estimates exclude such taxes.
4.28      The project contains an estimated 454 man-months of consultancy
services. The estimated cost of these services, including travel, company
overheads and provision for inflation is about US$3.0 million, equivalent
to about US$6,600 per man-month.



- 22 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
Foreign
Project Component       Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
YD million------  -----US$ million-----  % of Total
Port Facilities           1.00    2.14    3.14   2.90       6.20   9.10         68
Fisheries Facilities    0.28    1.18    1.46   0.82         3.42   4.24        81
Fisheries Cooperative
Development              0.16    0.30    0.46   0.46       0.88   1.34         66
Fresh Water Supply
& Road Construction   0.62    0.89    1.51   1.80         2.60   4.40        59
Technical Assistance/l  0.15    1.09    1.24   0.43         3.18   3.61         89
Working Capital           0.07      -      0.07   0.20        -    0.20          0
Base Cost           2.28    5.60    7.88   6.61    16.28  22.89
Contingencies
Physical                 0.43    0.83    1.26   1.26        2.42   3.68        66
Price                     0.61    1.26    1.87   1.76       3.67   5.43        68
Subtotal         1.04    2.09    3.13   3.02       6.09   9.11         67
Total            3.32    7.69    4.75   9.63    22.37  32.00           70
/1   Includes US$850,000 that have been advanced under the Project Preparation
Facility (paras 1.02 and 4.13).
D. Financing Plan
4.29      Financing for the project will be arranged in the following way:
an IDA credit of US$10.0 million, a credit of US$3.0 million from the EEC
Special Action Account, a US$16.0 million parallel loan from another external
source, most likely Libya and a contribution of US$3.0 million from the PDRY
Government.
4.30      The IDA credit will be on standard terms.  The credit from the EEC
Special Action Account will have the same financial conditions as the IDA
credit. The co-financing agreement is expected to be either a loan or a
grant.
4.31      The IDA credit will finance 45% of the foreign exchange costs of
the project. The remaining 55% of the foreign exchange costs will be fi-
nanced from the external loan which also will finance 38% of the local cost.
The entire amount of the EEC Special Action Account credit is expected to be
used for local cost financing (31% of local cost) which is justified because



- 23 -
of PDRY's especially tight foreign exchange conditions. The Government's
contribution will cover the balance of the local cost financing requirement
of 31%. The financing plan, which is subject to final agreement between the
Government and the other external financier participating in the project is
expected to be as follows:
Table 4.3: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
IDA     EEC        Cofinancier          Government
Project Component           ----------US$ million------------------
Port Facilities                      2.4            6.7
Fisheries Facilities        3.4                                          0.8
Fisheries Cooperative
Development               0.9                                         0.4
Fresh Water Supply
and Road Improvement                              4.4
Technical Assistance        3.2                                          0.4
Working Capital                      0.2
Base Cost                   7.5      2.6           11.1                  1.6
Contingencies               2.5      0.4            4.9                  1.4
Total Cost                 10.0      3.0           16.0                  3.0
% of Total Cost            31.2      9.4           50.0                  9.4
4.32      Condition of effectiveness of the IDA and EEC Special Action Account
credits will be the signing of a co-financing agreement with the other external
financier for the balance of the required project finances.
E. Procurement
4.33      Procurement under the credit will be by international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Local goods and services financed
from the EEC Special Action Account credit will be procured in accordance
with Government procedures which are acceptable to the Association. Procure-
ment of items financed by the other external financier will be on a parallel
basis following its procurement procedure. Bidding documents for civil works
will permit bidding either for the entire work or for separate groups of items.
F. Disbursement and Retroactive Financing
4.34      Disbursements under the proposed credit will cover 100% of foreign
exchange for the fisheries facilities, 100% of the foreign exchange of the



- 24 -
fisheries cooperative development and 100% of the foreign exchange of all
technical assistance. The costs of the national nutrition survey of approxi-
mately US$70,000 will be payable retroactively as the survey will most likely
be undertaken before credit signing. The total IDA credit is expected to be
disbursed over seven years. The estimated disbursement schedule is in Annex
3.
4.35      The proceeds of US$3.0 million of the credit from the EEC Special
Action Account have been allocated to finance part of local costs of the port
facilities and the working capital for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
Financing for both these components are expected to be committed within six
months of credit effectiveness and be fully disbursed within two years there-
after. These arrangements meet the quick disbursing requirement of the
EEC Special Action Account.
G. Environment
4.36      Development of the multipurpose port at Nishtun does not interfere
with any known plans for the respective area. None of the activities in
and adjacent to the port site will be detrimental to the existing environment.
Sanitary sewerage water from the facilities of the harbor site will be dis-
charged together with sewerage water from trashing and cleaning into a slurry
separator. After sedimentation, the sewerage water will be pumped to an
outlet on the northern side of the peninsula which will prevent pollution of
the Nishtun Bay.
4.37      The Aden Port Authority (APA), which will be responsible for operat-
ing the Nishtun Port, has laws and rules providing satisfactory procedures,
requirements for safeguards, and inspections against oil and other pollution.
These laws and rules are backed by provision of a system of fines, impounding
of vessels, and imprisonment of the master.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization During Implementation
5.01      As a project with a number of distinct development components,
responsibility will fall into the spheres of several ministries. The MFW
will be responsible for the fisheries related activities, the Ministry of
Communication through the APA for the Nishtun Port, the Ministry of Construc-
tion for the Nishtun-Tabut Road, the Ministry of Health for the national
nutrition survey and the Ministry of Planning for general coordination and
evaluation. To implement a project with such diversified responsibilities,
a PIU will be set up to be charged with the organization, coordination and
supervision of all project activities during the implementation stage. Once
the project has been implemented, the respective ministries will handle the



- 25 -
operating and maintenance functions falling into their respective spheres of
responsibility.
5.02      The PIU will be set up under the Planning Department of the MFW.
In charge of the PIU will be an expatriate project manager who will be a
ports engineer with experience in building fishing ports and shore facilities.
The project manager, acceptable to IDA, will be given appropriate power to
execute the implementation of the project effectively. An experienced staff
member of the MFW will be assigned to the project as project co-manager. Once
the construction of the marine works and related facilities are fully underway,
the APA will also assign an experienced staff member to the project. His
responsibility will be to represent the APA and to liaise with the senior
staff of the APA during project impelementation. In addition an accountant,
two administrative support staff, and a driver will be assigned to the PIU.
The PIU will have its main office in Aden and will have a sub-office at the
construction site at Nishtun. Employment of a qualified expatriate project
manager, acceptable to IDA, of the co-manager and the establishment of the PIU
is a condition of effectiveness.
5.03      Two years prior to the project becoming operational, an expatriate
fisheries advisor will be appointed and assigned to the PIU. This expert
will have multifold responsibilities such as advising on the procurement of
fishing vessels, outboard engines and fishing gear; organizing fishermen
communities in the nine project villages to participate in the project;
initiating the pilot project for introducing small modern fishing vessels; and
general extension work among the local fishermen. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that a fisheries advisor, acceptable to IDA, will be
appointed two years before the project becomes operational.
5.04      A firm of consulting engineers will be appointed to directly
supervise construction of all civil works to be carried out under the proj-
ect.  The engineering consultant will be an integral part of the PIU.  An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that a firm of consulting engineers,
satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed.
5.05      For planning and coordinating all aspects of this rather complex
and integrated project, a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) at ministerial
level will be established. This body will be composed of representatives from
the Ministry of Planning, the MFW, the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry
of Communications (the APA) and the project manager. This committee will meet
at least once a month, or more often whenever considered necessary, to estab-
lish general policies, take corrective action, evaluate progress and assist
the project manager in executing the project expeditiously. The PCC will be
chaired by the Deputy Minister of the MFW and the project manager will act as
coordinator. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that such a
committee will be established at the start of project implementation with
membership as outlined in the foregoing.



- 26 -
B. Organization and Management of Prolect Operations
Fisheries Operations
5.06      To assist the MFW in operating the facilities during the first
three years, a successful ongoing fisheries company with international fish
marketing experience will provide a management team consisting of a general
manager, a fish processing specialist and a fish production specialist. This
team will take active part in mobilizing the fisheries communities in the
area and will organize and manage the collection, processing and marketing
of the fish landed in the project area. This management team will report
directly to the Deputy Minister of Fish Wealth. In its day-to-day operations
it will, however, operate along the Ministry's established departmental
structure. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Govern-
ment will enter into a management agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
with a suitable fisheries company for the first three years of project opera-
tion.
5.07      The fisheries facilities at Nishtun, which will become part of the
MFW's assets, are expected to become a highly profitable operation (see para
7.07). No net financial obligations are expected to be incurred by the MFW
from operating the Nishtun facilities.
Credit Scheme for Fishing Vessels
5.08      The MFW will provide fishing vessels, outboard engines and fishing
gear on credit to the fisheries cooperatives in the nine project villages.
The Department of Fisheries Cooperatives in the MFW, in consultation with the
Central Cooperative, the coordinating body for all specialized cooperatives
in the project area, will evaluate the needs for vessels, outboard engines
and gear in each of the participating villages. Taking into account the state
of current fishing operations in each village, recommendations for the supply
of equipment will be drawn up and submitted to the Deputy Minister of Fish
Wealth for final approval. The Deputy Minister's approval will be passed on
to the PIU, which will draw up the necessary loan documents and hand over the
respective equipment to the recipient village fisheries cooperative. Technical
appraisal will not be necessary since all types of equipment are well-proven.
Credit for fully equipped fishing vessels will carry an interest rate of 8%
and will be repayable over eight years without grace period. Credit for
outboard engines and fishing gear will be repayable over four years with 8%
interest. An interest rate of 8% is a positive rate, as inflation on average
over the last three years was below 5% and has been projected at 6% through
1981. The 8% is well above the current interest rates for 6% and 5 1/2% for
short-term and medium-term agricultural loans. The lending mechanism to be
used will be similar to the one successfully applied under the First Fisheries
Development Project in which 100 fully equipped fishing vessels were procured
on credit to the MFW's Small Boats Division and fisheries cooperatives in the
western governorates. As under the first project, the PIU will keep the
accounts of the credit scheme and keep records of the payments as they are
effected through withholdings by the Ministry's Internal Marketing Division



- 27 -
from the borrowers' fish sale proceeds. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that loans for vessels, outboard engines and gear will carry an
interest rate of not less than 8% and that the above described lending
mechanism will be applied.
Port Operations
5.09      The Nishtun Port will handle fisheries and general cargo activi-
ties. Due to the different requirements in fish and cargo handling, it will
be important to keep them as separate as possible. For fisheries, the
port will provide berthing and landing facilities as well as services for
the fishing vessels, their crews and the landed products which have to be
handled with minimum delays because of their perishability. Commercial cargo,
whether bulk or unitized, will have to be handled efficiently once unloaded,
otherwise the facilities could be easily immobilized.
5.10      For the management of a port of this dimension, a port manager
will be appointed who will be responsible to the APA for the efficient
management of all port operations and for all maintenance and repair works
to the harbor facilities. The control and discipline of vessels entering,
leaving and berthing at the port and the enforcement of safety rules at sea
and in the harbor will come under the jurisdiction of a harbor master. In
addition to these principal staff, who will be appointed six months before
the port becomes operational, a number of support staff such as accountant,
cashier, etc., will also be engaged. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that a port manager and a harbor master would be appointed six months
before the port becomes operational.
5.11      The assets of the Nishtun port, once established, will be trans-
ferred in the form of equity to the APA. Projected pro forma profit and loss
statements for the Nishtun Port indicate that the port's operating costs will
be fully covered from the proceeds of its sale of services. The APA will
therefore not incur any financial losses from taking over the Nishtun Port.
The transfer of the Nishtun Port to the APA will be consistent with the
agreements reached between the Association and the Aden Port Authority con-
cerning the Aden Port Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit 584-YDR).
C. Studies
National Nutrition Survey
5.12      The Government of PDRY has turned to the Association for assistance
in carrying out a country-wide nutrition survey to determine deficiencies and
recommend corrective measures. The preliminary results of a pilot nutrition
survey, carried out during 1977 in PDRY by the Swedish Save the Children
Federation in collaboration with the Swedish Agency for Research Cooperation
with Developing Countries, indicate that nutritional deficiencies may be more
common than had been expected. The two Swedish agencies which were involved
in the pilot survey will carry out the recommended national nutrition survey.
Such an arrangement is acceptable to the Association, as the terms of reference



- 28 -
for the survey submitted by the Swedish agencies have been found in full
agreement with the Association's policies in the field of nutrition. During
negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the proposed national nutrition
survey will be carried out in accordance with the terms of reference as
submitted by the two Swedish agencies and approved by the Association.
Occasional Studies
5.13      For special unforeseen problems that could arise during project
implementation or early operation for which a satisfactory solution can only
be expected from a detailed investigation, for which the regular project
staff does not have the expertise, a special study will be undertaken. Terms
of reference for such a study will be prepared by the project staff and
submitted to the Association for approval. An assurance to that effect was
obtained during negotiations.
D. Accounting and Auditing
5.14      Separate accounts will be kept for the project by the MFW and
the Ministry of Health. By law, all accounts of public organizations are
audited by the Central Board of Audit. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that: (a) separate accounts will be kept for the project by the
two said Ministries, with an overall separate account for the project to be
set up by the MFW at the time of establishing the PIU; and (b) the project
accounts, audited annually by the Central Board of Audit, will be submitted
to IDA not later than four months after the closing date of the Government's
fiscal year.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.15      The project manager will be responsible for monitoring the project.
Baseline data for fish catches, fishermen's income and cargo landings in the
project area have been established during project preparation and confirmed
during appraisal. These baseline data will be used for monitoring the
various project activities.  The staff of the PIU will collect and analyze
sufficient technical and analytical data on the project's major components
to properly evaluate the effects of the project and to follow its progress
against the project implementation schedule as shown on Chart 20007.  In addi-=
tion to special monitoring records, routine records on all project actions,
programs, budgets and expenditures will be kept.
5.16      The project manager will submit quarterly progress reports, includ-
ing a summary of the project account to IDA through the MFW. The reports
will be received by IDA within two months from the end of the report quarter.
In addition to the quarterly progress reports, the project manager will
prepare a draft completion report for submission to the Association within
six months after the closing date of the project. An assurance to this effect



- 29 -
was obtained during negotiations. The leader of the management team, who will
be in charge of operations during the project's first three years of operation
will prepare quarterly reports on the operational progress of the project.
Three months before the end of the management team's assignment, the team
leader will submit a completion report covering the project's initial operat-
ing phase.
VI. PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETING PROSPECTS AND PRICES
A. Fish Production
6.01      At present total fish landings in the project area are estimated at
between 3,800-4,000 tons annually. Existing marketing facilities can only
accommodate dried fish and small amounts of smoked fish. No regular market-
ing procedures exist for the distribution of fresh fish which is caught only
in quantities sufficient for immediate consumption by village populations.
Because of these marketing constraints, more than 70% of the fish landed
consists of sardines, anchovies, and shark which is all sundried. Shark is
dried and sold in the interior, and sundried sardines and anchovies are used
as animal feed and fertilizer. Spoilage of fish after landing and during
subsequent processing is high (about 25%) due to the intensive heat and poor
conditions of handling and processing.
6.02      With the project, total fish production is expected to reach 11,300
tons at full development which will mean an increase of almost 200% over
present production. The composition of the catch will change substantially
as the fishermen will shift to catching more high-value assorted fish at
the expense of sardines and shark. The catch at full development is expected
to consist of 60% assorted high value fish, 29% sardines, 10% shark and 1%
lobster and shrimp. Of the total catch, about 6,800 tons, or about two-
thirds, will be processed for export at the Nishtun shore facilities. The
balance will be consumed locally or channelled into the domestic marketing
system. Drying of sardines and shark will continue, as local demand for these
products is well established, while the curing of high value fish is expected
to disappear when fishermen find it more profitable to sell fresh fish for
processing to the Nishtun fisheries facilities. The total value of the area's
annual fish production at full development has been estimated at YD 0.9 mil-
lion (US$2.6 million) annually, based on 1978 prices for fish landed on the
beach.
B. Marketing
6.03      No change is expected in the quantity of fish consumed by the
village population in the project area nor in the way fish is distributed
there. The Al Gheida market, once properly organized, is expected to absorb
1.5 to 2 tons of assorted fish daily for consumption by the civil population,



- 30 -
the hospital and the army. For dried sardines and shark, an established
marketing system exists. Dried sardines are shipped mainly into the interior
by bedouins for feeding their animals while dried shark is mainly consumed in
the Wadi Hadramawt.
6.04      Market prospects for the project's major products are excellent.
A growing demand for fish and shellfish exists in the neighboring Arab coun-
tries which have no import quotas and which do not impose special duties;
their quality standards are not yet as high as those of developed countries.
Those countries will therefore offer adequate markets for the project's
output during the initial operating period when the system is broken in and
the high quality standards of the developed countries cannot readily be
achieved. Countries like Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait offer
very attractive markets for assorted fish. Demand in these countries is
particularly high during summer when fishing in the Gulf area is curtailed.
A concerted export promotion effort in the Far East could develop major
demand for some of the products produced in the project area.
6.05      Because of over-exploitation of the herring resources in the North
Atlantic, catches there have diminished and fishing has been restricted.
Experts familiar with the fish markets in Northern Europe have indicated that
the larger sardine varieties caught off the coast of the Sixth Governorate
could well be used as substitute raw material for herring products. The
sardines' principal characteristics would be acceptable to the consumers.
It is intended, under the project, to select sardines according to specifica-
tions, freeze them in 10 kg blocks and export them to the European markets
where they will be further processed by the industry's underutilized pro-
cessing equipment. These exports will supplement the already established
markets for sardines in Egypt, Libya and Jordan. For processed shark (dog
fish), Italy offers a ready market. Lobster, shrimp, sea bream and shark fin
have excellent marketing prospects in Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, the USA,
and Europe. Transshipment poses no problem as Nishtun Port will provide
berthing facilities for both foreign and domestic fish carrier vessels which
presently call regularly at Aden Port for frozen fish and shellfish.
C. Prices
6.06      Compared to properly adjusted border prices, domestic fish prices
are very low. Although this large difference constitutes a fairly heavy ton
burden on the fishermen, the Government uses it to mobilize funds, mostly in
foreign exchange through the export of fish, for its rapidly expanding develop-
ment expenditures. Domestic prices are also kept low because of Government's
general price policy which is oriented towards low consumer prices. Nominal
protection coefficients for assorted fish and shark are 0.4 and 0.35, respec-
tively. Prices are reviewed from time to time to reflect major changes in the
cost of production and in inflation. Present fish prices have been in effect
since early 1977. In the Fifth and Sixth Governorates, where the MFW's system
of compulsory fish marketing and its fixed price systems are not yet fully
established, fish prices on the "open" market of the bigger consumption



- 31 -
centers are up to 100% above the officially fixed prices. From the prices
paid by the MFW's Marketing Division, the cooperatives retain between 11 and
27% to cover their overhead costs, for fishing gear and make contributions to
the fishermen's welfare fund. The appraisal mission was informed that the
entire fish pricing system, including its structure and levels, is presently
under review as it has become obvious that the present system is not suffi-
ciently flexible to provide the incentives necessary for a more intensive
exploitation of the country's fish resources. As part of the review consider-
able fish price increases have been recommended by the MFW. Approval of this
recommendation by the political authority is expected soon.
6.07      For analyzing the financial aspects of the project, which include
financial cash flows for the fisheries facilities at Nishtun, project fishing
vessels and fishermen's cooperatives, the ex-vessel fish prices prevailing in
the country at this time of appraisal have been used.
6.08      For the economic analysis fish prices have been based on estimated
FOB export prices at Nishtun. These prices have been adjusted for handling,
processing, storage, freezing, packing and local transportation.
D. Recovery of Costs
6.09      The project provides measures for recovering the various project
costs. The cost of fishing vessels, outboard engines and fishing gear will be
fully recovered directly from the recipients through the credit scheme. The
investment, operating and maintenance costs of the fisheries facilities will
be recovered from the difference between world market fish export prices and
the domestic Government regulated prices. The operating and maintenance costs
of the Nishtun Port will be recovered directly through the various port
charges. The port's investment costs will be recovered indirectly through
savings in transport costs which the Government fully assumes for nationally
traded commodities in pursuing its uniform price system. The Government's
subsidy for covering these costs will be reduced considerably due to the
Nishtun Port, which will fully compensate for the port's investment costs.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Beneficiaries
7.01      An estimated 1,350 traditional fishermen and their 8,500 family
members will benefit directly from the project. The number of full and part
time fishermen in the project area has been estimated at 940; these will be
joined in project operations by 150 fishermen belonging to the MFW's Small
Boats Division, with home ports outside the project area and 150 fisher-
men who traditionally migrate to the area during the main fishing season. The
project area seems to have a fairly well-balanced economic environment with-
out signs of major open unemployment. However, the area's subsistence level



- 32 -
economy holds substantial manpower reserves in the form of underemployment.
The project will mobilize and develop these underemployed resources rather
than try to increase the number of fishermen. It can reasonably be assumed
that the number of fishermen migrating to the project area will increase from
present levels once the port and shore facilities become operational and offer
their services; this can however not be quantified.
7.02      Nishtun Port and the related shore facilities will provide an
estimated 200 new employment opportunities. For those jobs which require
trained and experienced personnel, people will be brought in from other
governorates in addition to those being trained overseas under the project.
During project implementation, there will be great demand for construction
workers of all levels of experience and qualification. To the extent possible
these will be hired locally.
7.03      As the project's infrastructure investments in port and road facili-
ties will considerably improve the accessibility of the eastern part of the
Sixth Governorate, it can be reasonably assumed that the entire population of
60,000 living in the Sixth Governorate will benefit at least indirectly from
the project.
B. Financial Benefits
7.04      The financial aspects of the various project components have been
analyzed, using the Agricultural Projects Analysis System (APAS). A detailed
documentation of computer printouts are contained in the Project File.
7.05      Fishermen Income.  The traditional Yemeni fishermen are well-known
as skillful, industrious and responsive to economic opportunity. The proj-
ect's investments, its organization and management will create an environment
in which they can fully develop and utilize their potential. The project
will provide a fish collection, processing and marketing system which the
traditional fishermen will find profitable to adjust to because it offers
them the opportunity to more than double their income through higher and
more valuable catches. At full development, a fisherman working on a small
sambuk will increase his annual income from YD 366 (US$1,061) to YD 805
(US$2,334), and for those working on a large sambuk, income will increase from
YD 262 (US$760) to YD 598 (US$1,734). Similarly, income of a fishermen
cooperative will rise from YD 141 (US$409) to YD 310 (US$900) per small sambuk
and from YD 251 (US$728) to YD 563 (US$1,633) per large sambuk. The average
fisherman's income in the project area at full development will be YD 701
(US$2,033) compared to YD 314 (US$911) without project. If we assume that the
average family size is six, then the average per capita income at full develop-
ment will be YD 117 ($339), an increase of 125% over the without project
average of about YD 52 ($151); the latter figure is considered to be similar
to current fishermen's per capita incomes in real terms. While the without
project per capita fishermen's income in the project area is only about 47% of
the present national average of YD 110 ($320), the average per capita income
of the beneficiaries at full development in 1986 will be more favorable rising



- 33 -
to about 64% of the estimated national average per capita income of YD 184
($534) in that year. If fish prices are raised as a result of the Government's
presently conducted fish price review, fishermen's income will increase
accordingly over present estimates.
7.06      Aggregated for the nine project villages, the incremental net income
will be about YD 0.7 million (US$2.03 million) per year which represents
an increase of more than 400% over present net income. Accordingly, these
high net income gains will yield a highly satisfactory financial rate of
return of 41% on the investments made at village level.
Fish Processing, Storage and Marketing Development
7.07      The investment in the fisheries complex at Nishtun will also have
an attractive financial rate of return of 30%. Any increase in fish price
as a result of the Government's present fish price review will lower the
financial rate of return accordingly. However, even a fish price increase
of 20% will result only in reduction of the financial rate of return to
23.3%. At present prices the income of the fisheries complex at Nishtun at
full development has been estimated at YD 0.9 million (US$2.6 million).
General Cargo Port
7.08      The Nishtun port will cover its direct operating expenses from
charges for various services and will earn an estimated net income of YD 0.1
million (US$0.29 million) annually. The financial rate of return on the port
investment will however be very marginal. The port investment is justifiable
primarily on economic grounds as it will save the economy more than YD 3.0
million (US$8.7 million) annually in transportation costs and reduced losses
and damages.
C. Economic Benefits
Direct Benefits
7.09      Due to the project's multipurpose design it will produce several
distinct forms of economic benefits. The principal economic benefits will
be in the form of annual incremental value of fish production with related
foreign exchange earnings, savings in transportation costs and reduced losses
and damages to goods shipped to and from the project area. The project's
annual incremental production of fish would be 7,500 tons, valued at YD 1.9
million (US$5.5 million), at full development. An estimated 90% of the
incremental production, or about 6,800 tons valued at YD 1.8 million (US$5.2
million) would be exported, and the gross foreign exchange earnings from fish
will be YD 1.9 million (US$5.5 million) annually. These estimated net foreign
exchange earnings will pay for about 7% of the food import bill projected for
the country for 1986. The project will allow a change in the mode of trans-
portation from by land to by sea. This shift to a more reliable, efficient
and considerably less expensive supply line will stimulate cargo shipments



- 34 -
into the project area which suffers from chronic shortages of supplies due to
inadequate transport facilities. It is expected that shipments of general
cargo will increase from presently 55,000 tons annually to 75,000 tons annually.
The incremental cargo shipments will consist primarily of building materials
which are required for various development projects that the Government has
continuously deferred because of severe shortages in transport capacities and
excessive transport costs. The supply of the area with food-stuffs and other
necessities will also improve because of the port and related handling and
storage facilities. As the proposed transport infrastructure will remove the
area's most limiting development constraint, that of inaccessibility, the
project will generate an incremental annual cargo traffic into the project
area of 20,000 tons by 1984, and will reduce transport cost by YD 1.6 million
(US$4.6 million) per year. An additional YD 0.9 million (US$2.6 million) will
be saved annually by shifting the transportation of all oil products to the
Sixth Governorates from the road to the sea. Under the price equalization
policy, the Government covers the transportation costs involved in shipping
essential commodities throughout the country. A shift from land to sea
transportation will result in lower Government subsidy payments. The savings
to the economy in terms of reduced losses, spoilage, and damage due to improper
loading, handling and storage facilities have been estimated at YD 0.7 million
(US$2.0 million) annually. Thus, the project's infrastructure investments
will result in total cost savings of YD 3.1 million (US$9.0 million) annually.
Indirect Benefits
7.10      The project will also have major indirect benefits which cannot
be quantified. The long distances of very difficult terrain which separates
the project area from the western parts of the country and the complete lack
of port facilities are responsible for the area's depressed economy and low
state of development. The project will change this, as its infrastructure
investments will help to break down the natural barriers and will link the
area closer to the rest of the country. This in turn will stimulate devel-
opment, lead to more economic activity, intensify commercial exchange and
provide the entire population with more and better opportunities to develop
their own and the area's potential.
D. Economic Rate of Return
7.11      The rate of return to the economy has been calculated separately
for the project's fisheries component and the Nishtun Port facilities and
jointly for the entire project. Supplementary components like fresh water
supply, electric power supply and the Nishtun-Tabut road are integral parts
and interdependent elements of both the fisheries aspect and the port facili-
ties. No seprate rates of return have therefore been calculated for these
components. The investment costs for the supplementary investments have been
pro-rated and allocated accordingly to the fisheries and port components.
7.12      Key assumptions as well as detailed input-output data, used in the
economic analysis, are contained in the Project File. Based on these assump-
tions and data, the economic rate of return for the overall project, is esti-
mated at 27%. The rate of return for the fisheries component and the port



- 35 -
component are 24% and 29%, respectively. The sensitivity of the rates of
return to variations in some key assumptions has been tested. In addition,
the switching values of certain key variables have been calculated and have
been arranged in the table below in order of declining sensitivity. The
switching value of a variable is the lowest value to which this particular
variable can decline before the project becomes unacceptable.
7.13      The calculations and tests of its economic feasibility show the
project as a sound investment which can withstand a number of unfavorable
developments affecting its key assumptions and parameters. Fish production
for example could fall 55% short of projected targets and the project would
still yield a rate of return comparable to the country's opportunity cost of
capital. Cost overruns of 121% and 229% for the fisheries component and the
port respectively would still leave the project marginally acceptable. The
project's rates of return contain a sufficiently high "risk premium" to
protect it against most calculable risks. These rates of return can be
considered conservative, as no allowance has been made for future fish
price development. According to recent OECD investigations fish prices will
most likely increase considerably faster than general inflation.
7.14      Rates of return for each separate component are shown in Table 7.1
below, together with the results, the switching values and other sensitivity
tests which are all acceptable.



- 36 -
Table 7.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Switching Values of Key Variables
Variable                                        Switching Value
1.   Fish production                                                 -55%
2.   Savings in transportation cost
and port charges                                             -70%
3.   Investment and operating cost of
fisheries component                                         +121%
4.   Investment and operating cost of
Nishtun Port                                                +229%
Sensitivity Tests on Economic Rates of Return
Fisheries      Nishtun       Total
Component         Port      Project
1.   Base case                               24.1           28.9         27.6
2.   10% cost increase                       22.1           27.1         25.7
3.   10% benefit decrease                    21.9           26.9         25.5
4.   Combined effect of 2 and 3              20.1           25.1         23.7
5.   10% benefit increase                    26.2           30.8         29.6
6.   10% decrease of benefits                                            27.0
from fish
7.   10% increase of benefits
from fish                                                         28.2
8.   10% increase of benefits
from port                                                         29.0
9.   10% decrease of benefits
from port                                                         26.1
E. Risks
7.15      This project, because of its scope, its location and its social
setting could, however, be faced by a number of exogenous factors that
could affect its success. The following three risk elements can be clearly
identified: risks affecting project implementation, project operation and the
preservation of the fish resource.
7.16      Many difficulties of various nature could result from the location
of the project area. The area is very remote, it is sparsely populated,
has severe climatic conditions and is scarce in vital resources, such as
fresh water. This set of rather unfavorable natural conditions is aggravated
by the country's weak institutional infrastructure. The first problem facing
the project would therefore be to get competent and experienced contractors
interested in implementing the works and to award a contract at a reasonable



- 37 -
price. Although project costs have been carefully estimated and reviewed in
the light of the most recent experience with a similar project presently
being implemented in the country, there are, however, not sufficiently large
cost experiences to arrive at a cost estimate within an acceptable margin of
error. The project will be by no means easy to implement. The country has,
however, a record of a number of major projects which have been successfully
implemented under not much more favorable conditions; among them the 800 ton
IDA-financed cold storage at Khalf and the first section of the IDA-financed
Mukalla-Wadi Hadrawawt road. To reach as many potential contractors as
possible the project will be widely advertised and in addition, individual
contractors with experience in implementing projects under similar conditions
will be approached. One general reason for contractors' reluctance to accept
bigger civil works contracts in PDRY are the uncertain and limited prospects
for continuing projects in that country.
7.17      Once the project works have been completed, the project could be
faced with the risk of uneconomic utilization of its investments. The proj-
ect concept is based on highly commercialized operations which require full
participation and cooperation of the area's traditional fishermen and experi-
enced and efficient management. Participation and cooperation of the fishermen
will depend on sufficient financial incentives and an uninterrupted functioning
of the fish collection system. For financial incentives, government price
policy will be responsible. However, even if present fish prices remain
unchanged, fishermen income will at least double under the project. The
traditional Yemeni fishermen are known to be responsive to economic incentives.
The exposure to higher levels of living, demonstrated by villagers returning
from working in the Gulf States, has created in the area a demand for consumer
goods which can only be obtained with higher incomes. To attain these higher
levels, the project area's fishermen will have the incentive to go for higher
and more valuable catches.
7.18      Without an efficient and innovative organization and management, the
success of the project will be highly doubtful. As these are among the most
scarce resources in the country, the project will safeguard against shortfall
in this respect. It will provide the necessary management capability through
a management agreement with an experienced and succesful fisheries company. A
management team seconded by such a company will manage the project's opera-
tions for three years so that enough Yemenis can be trained to take over.
The management team will be given a package of fair incentives to motivate
them to work towards maximization of project output. Demand for high value
fish is increasing in high income countries, while resources of many varieties
are increasingly depleted. If properly managed, the project's operations
could become financially highly attractive. Therefore, no major problems are
foreseen in engaging a management team of the required caliber.
7.19      The third major risk which could affect the success of the project
would be a threat to the fish resources in the project area. These resources
presently are plentiful in varieties and quantities and are underexploited.
However, as highly productive fishing grounds become very scarce around the



- 38 -
world and as more and more countries claim larger and larger territorial
sea limits, areas still rich in fish and open for uncontrolled fishing are
threatened to become rapidly overexploited by highly efficient commercial
fishing operations. The project area is not facing an immediate threat to its
fish resources, however, if the number of foreign industrial trawlers fishing
for cuttlefish off the coast of the Sixth Governorate is further increased and
if these vessels are not effectively prevented from entering the three-mile
fishing zone reserved for the traditional fishermen, the fish resources of
the area could be endangered in the future. The Government will have to
exercise constraint in exploiting its valuable fish resources by following a
prudent long-term oriented fisheries policy.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement having been reached on the various issues referred to
in Chapters II-VII of this report, and subject to the conditions of effective-
ness in paras. 4.32 and 5.02, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of the
equivalent of US$10.0 million and a credit of US$3.0 million from the EEC
Special Action Account to the Government of the People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen on standard IDA terms.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHERIES 11 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF ORGANIZATION CHART
I Ministry of Communication |         |    Project       |                        MminV of Fiih Ith
z
l CoStittee lt
0
*_           | A<taMenPornAuthority|            _ _           _    _-                                                                                                              -|Dnco
u Ci t H Yemen ishmeal Compan
I- ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~              -
NO     h    P.r                                         rPh    F,Ihc  u
Direcor OeratinsCpnsleetants                            Plnnn
I.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     ~       -
Prjc Sob
0                          cl
P erso n nel Pnternal        NtpG          rt                         Fi sh eingtOnanesand                                          e-
Nieun Fiheris                                                                                                 B.   -
Nisirtun ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~       z Porttr 
no ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ te Portnen Ports Cag  Apypuntan  AdministrativeAFlF
E : 3  1 0 3  1 <   1         E       C                                            |    Flsh ng~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~   Qoalisys       Fis       Fishd Bkoeni-adt



-40 .ANNX 2
POPLE 'S DOOC UATIL REPUBLIC OP YIEBN
SECOND FISHERIES DEVELOPE9NT PROJECT
Detailed -rolCt Cost Estinata
Year 1                  Year 2                   Year 3                   Year 4                Year.  5-7                  Total           Foreign Eachkaga
Pro-ect Conponant           Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Fo-ig   Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreigr  Total   *t 7. of Totol
----------___---------------------------------------- --------- US$  millio ------------ ----- ----- ------- ----- -----  -------  -----------
Fort Focilitieo
Macice coke                     0.60   2.50      3.10   1.50   1.00       2.50   0.10   0.40      0.50    -         -       -       -       -        -     2.20   3.90       6.10          64
General cargo handling
and etora-g  fecilition        -       -        -        -      -         -    0.10   0.25      0.35    -        -        -       -       -        -     0.10   0.25      0.35          71
Mochanical workehop              --                               -         -    4.05   0.25      0.30    -         -       -       -       -        -     0.05   0.25       0.30          83
Hloolgo ranp                     _       _        -     0.10   0.05       0.15    -       -        -       -       -        -       _       -        _     0.10   0.05       0.15          33
Electricity *upply               --                               -         -    0.05   0.15      0.20   0.10   0.50       0.60    -        -        -     0.15   0.65       0.a0          81
Oil prodact eapply               -        -       _        _      _         -    0.05   0.25-    0.30   0.05   0.40        0.45    -        -        -     0.10   0.65       0.75          87
Office boilding
ond oqoipmont                  -       _        -        _      _         _    0.05   0.15      0.20    -        -        -       -       -        -     0.05   0.15      0.20           75
Rosidontial bkildings           0.10   0.25      0.35   0.05   0.05       0.10    -       _         _      _       _         _      _       _        -     G15   0.30        0.45          67
Sobtotol                  0.70   2.75       3.45   1.65   1.10      2.75   0.40   1.45       1.85   0.15   0.90       1.05     _       -        _     2 90   6.20      0.10          68
Fih-eriao Facilities
Fish receiving rt-ti-na          -        -       -        -     -          -    0.05   0.15      0.20    -         -       -       -       -        -     0.05   0.15       0.20          75
Fish procain, cold
storage ond ice noking
focilitier                     -       -        -       -      -          -    0.35   1.40      1.75   0.35   1.40       1.75    -        -        -     0.70   2.80      3.50          80
Trt-port-tion equipment         0.01   0.04      0.05      -     -          -    0.01   0.09      0.10   0.01   0.19       0.20    -        -        -     0.03   0.32       0.35          91
Office obilding and
equipment                      -       -         -       -     -          -    0.04   0.13      0.17    -        -        -       -       -        -     0.04   0.13      0.17           76
C-osnicationo quipment           -     0.02      0.02      --    -                                                                          --                     0.02      0.02         100
SOotbtal                  0.01   0.06       0.07     _      _         -    0.45   1.77       2 22   0.36   1.59       1.95    -       _         -     0.82   3.42      4.24          81
Fleherios Coeovr-tive
Develeopment
Fishing veele                    -        -       _        _     _          _    0.20   0.05      0.25   0.20   0.05       0.25    -        -        -     0.40   0.10       0.50          20
Octbcord enginca                 -        -       -        -     _          -    0.05   0.45      0.50    -         -       -       -       -        _     0.05   0.45       0.50          90
Flahing gear                     -        -       _        -     -          _    0.01   0.29      0.30    -         -       -       -       -        -     0.01   0.29       0.30          97
Mohile nochanicel
oorkehcF            °                °        O               i -         -     -      0.04     0.04    _         -       -       -       -        -      -I0.04C0.04 O                100
Subttotl                    -      -         -       _      -        -      0.26   0.83      1.09   0.20   0.05       0.25             - _      _    0.46   0.08       1.34          66
Freh Water SUDY
.nd Rood Inerovodsnt
Fresh vate- eupply               -       -        -        -     -          -    0.20   0.30      0.50   0.20   0.30       0.50    -        -        -     0.40   0.60       1.00         60
Road inpr-veoeat                 -       _        _        -     -         _     0.70   1.00      1.70   0.70   1.00       1 70    -                 -     1.40   2.00       3.40         59
Sobtot1l                                            -       -         -    0.90   1.30       2.20   0.90   1.30       2.20    -      _          -     1.80   2.60      4.40          59
Technical Aceitonce
_ogioeariog S_roicee            0.10   0.85      0.95   0.03   0.15      0.18   0.03   0.15       0.18   0.03   0.15       0.18             -        -     0.19   1.30       1.49          87
Project ..noge-ont              0.01   0.06      0.07   0.01   0.06      0.07   0.01   0.06       0.07   0.01   0.06       0.07   0.10   0.53       0.63   0.14   0.77      0.91          85
T_choicol  uppFort to MFW       0.03   0.18      0.21   0.03   0.18       0.21   0.03   0.10      0.21      -       -        -      -       -        -     0.09   0.54      0.63           06
Training                         -        -       -        -    0.10      0.10    -      0.10     0.10      -    0.10      0.10    -        -        -       -    0.30       0.30         100
Nutrition sorocy                0.01   0.07      0.08      -      -         -     -       -        -        -       -        -      -       -        -     0Ot    0 07       0.00         07
Mircelloneou- oco-tional
rtodies                        -       _        -       _      _         _      _     0.10      0.10      -    0.10      0.10     _      _         -      -      0.20     0.20         100
Sobtotl                  0.15   1.16       1.31   0.03   0.49      0 56   0.07   0.59       0.66   0.04   0.41       0.45   0.10   0.53      0.63   0.43   3.18       3.61          89
Worki-c Ca-ital
Incremental working c-pitol   0.20    -          0.20    ---                                                                               - _    -        0.20    -        0.20           0
Subtot-l                  0.20    -         0.20     _      _         _      -      -         _       _       -         -    -_       _                0.20    -       0.20           0
Bose Coat                         1.06   3.97      5.03   1.72   1.59       3.31   2.08   5.94      8.02   1.65   4.25       5.90   0.10   0.53       0.63   6.61  16.28    22.89            71
Centinge nies
Phyei-al continge-cy            0.20   0.70      0.90   0.45   0.30       0.75   0.30   0.90      1.20   0.30   0.50       0.80   0.01   0.02       0.03   1.26   2.42       3.68          66
Prico contingency               0.15   0.40      0.55   0.42   0.30       0.72   0.60   1.50      2.10   0.55   1.25       1.80   0.04   0.22       0.26   1.76   3.67       5.43          68
subtotal                  0.35   1.10       1.45   0.87   0.60      1.47   0.90   2.40       3.20   0.85   1.75       2.60   0.05   0.24      0.29   3.02   6.09       9.11          67
TOTAL PROJECT COST         1.41   5.07      6.48   2.59   2 19      4.78   2.98   0.34    113       2.50   6.00        .60   015   077        0.92   9.63  22.37    32.00            70



- 41-                      ANNEX 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements-l
IDA Fiscal Year                 Disbursed                     Cumulative
and Semester               During Semester                 Disbursements
__…US________---- US$ '000…
Fiscal Year 1980
First                              850/2                         850
Second                             200                         1,050
Fiscal Year 1981
First                              350                         1,400
Second                             400                         1,800
Fiscal Year 1982
First                              500                         2,300
Second                          2,200                          4,500
Fiscal Year 1983
First                           1,700                          6,200
Second                          1,800                          8,000
Fiscal Year 1984
First                           1,400                          9,400
Second                            100                          9,500
Fiscal Year 1985
First                              100                         9,600
Second                             100                         9,700
Fiscal Year 1986
First                              100                         9,800
Second                             100                         9,900
Fiscal Year 1987
First                              100                        10,000
/1 Assuming that the loan would become effective about October 1979.
/2 Disbursement would be under PPF.
March 1979



-42 -                     ANNEX 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Project Operations
Managing Agency Agreement
1.        To assure the efficient utilization of the project's commercial
fisheries investments it would be necessary to employ technical and mana-
gerial expertise from an internationally experienced fisheries consulting
firm or an ongoing fisheries company. A team of three experts would be
required, consisting of: (a) a general manager in charge of the entire
operation, administratively, commercially and technically; (b) a fish
processing and storage expert responsible for all fish handling operations
at the Nishtun plant; and (c) a fisheries advisor and supply specialist
who would work together with the fishermen in the villages and organize
the supply of the required quantities and qualities of fish for the Nishtun
plant.
2.        The agreement to be concluded between the MFW and the managing
agency would be designed to benefit the country to the highest degree pos-
sible and to maximize the team's rewards for good management performance.
The structure of the proposed remuneration package for the management team
would consist of three principal parts:
(a) A relatively small fixed fee, intended to cover the team's
salaries plus a relevant overhead charge. Any additional
expert that should become necessary would be seconded at
cost to the project. This fee would be indexed to the
retail price index of the country from where the experts
are recruited.
(b) A production commission based on revenues from fish sold
from the Nishtun plant. This commission would be arranged on
a sliding scale to give the team an incentive to maximize
output.
(c) A percentage of net profits of the Nishtun fisheries opera-
tions would be paid to the management team as an incentive
to operate the project as efficiently as possible.
3.        Both the production commission and the participation in the net
profit would direct the fisheries operation towards exploitation of high-
value species.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISHER IES II DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF WORKS
Actwity                  ~ ~~1979                1980                  1981                 1982                 1983                 1984                 1985                 1986                  198
1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4        1  2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4        1    2    3    4    1   2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1   2    3    4
Works by Consulting Fi-ns
Preparation of Tender Docu,ments
Tendering Process
Evaluation of Tenders                                               
Contract Award
Miscellaneous Additional Studies                             III      I ofIII
Construction Supervision                                                       -                                                                            N             III
(inc. guananty periodsf
lrtipl.,enetati-n
Mobilization by Contractors
Site Preparation and Temporary
Structures and Housing etc.
Construction Nishtun
Harbour Marine Facility-- -                                                                                         - m       -     -     -
lBreak.ater, Keys etc.)
Roadway, Tubal-N ishtna-                                                                      -     -     -          - -
Water Supply System
Harbor Shore
Facilities and Services                                                                                                  lii I  lhhIll so
Fish Processing plants                                                                              Il I                    
fisc. Ice Plant andc Store)
Miscellaneous Plant & Machinery-                                                                                                                          - -       -
finc. Oil Supply, Vehicles etc.)
Miscellaneous Buildings
Internal Roadways and Paved Areas                                                I        I                      II             I   I
Clearance of Site
Demo.bilizatio
Village Fish Receiving StetionIwwwli
Vessel Hull Constructio
Engines und Gear Procurement
Technical Assistance
Project Manager
Fisheries Advisor
Management Teamn
General Manager
Fish Processing Specalist
Fish Production Specialist
Advisors to the Ministry of                                                               -    -     -    -    -    --                    -
Fish Wealth
Continruous Customner Work
1 urn  Intermittent Work
w      Guarantee Perods where indicated                                                                                                                            World Bank - 20007                  U



- 44 -                         ANNEX 6
PROJECT FILE
SECTION C
Working Tables Prepared by IDA Staff and Consultants
Cl Table 1 - Fish Production in PDRY in 1976/77
Table 2 - Exports of Fish and Fish Products
C2 Table 1 - Fish Production in the Project Area
With and Without Project
Table 2 - Daily Catch Rate per Boat
Table 3 - Disposition of Total Fish Catch
C3 Table 1 - Number of Boats and Fishing Periods
C4 Table 1 - Financial Fish Prices at Beach, Cooperative Charges
and Fishermen's Prices
Table 2 - Economic Prices of Fish and Fish Products
Table 3 - Financial and Economic Cost of Oil Products
C5 Table 1 - Income Statement -- Fisheries Complex
Table 2 - Gross Revenue from Fish, Fish Products and Ice Sales
Table 3 - Purchase Cost of Raw Fish
Table 4 - Estimates of Fisheries Plant Operating Cost
Table 5 - Fish Processing Plant Operating Cost Salaries
and Allowances
C6 Table 1 - Income Statement -- Port Authority
Table 2 - Estimates of Port Revenue, Assumptions on Port Earning
Estimates
Table 3 - Estimates of Earnings from Stevedoring and Temporary
Storages
Table 4 - Port Authority Operating Cost
Table 5 - Salaries and Wages of Port Authority Staff
C7 APAS Documentation for Economic and Financial Analysis
(Available in EIIENA Regional Files Separately)
C8  Table 1 - Fishing Vessel Financial Model
Table 2 - Input Requirement per Boat per Day
C9 Table 1 - Incremental Village Earning
C10 Table 1 - Estimates of Transport Cost Savings
Cll Table 1 - Assumptions Made for Economic Analysis
C12 Table 1 - Economic Analysis of the Project and its Subcomponents
C13 Table 1 - Financial Analysis of the Project and Subcomponents



- 45 -
Terms of Reference
C14 Project Manager (Project Implementation Unit)
C15 Fisheries Advisor (Project Implementation TUnit)
C16 Export Marketing Specialist (Ministry of Fish Wealth)
C17 Cold Store Management Expert (Ministry of Fish Wealth)
C18 Fleet Manager (Ministry of Fish Wealth)






IBRD 12776.
44'                  45                   45                    A7'                   48-                  49.                   50                   5i                    52' sz                53      o o            I R               MARCH 1979
-19.      People's Democrotic Republic of Yemen                                                                                                                                      -                                                                         I R AN
FISHERIES PROJECT If
LOCATION                                                                                                                          _i                                               M A N   EGY.1 PT4443
Fi\Fsher es Project I areas                                                                                             _         _-                                                                                        SAUDI  ARA8IA
* Project stes-shore facilites                                S  A  U  D  I        A  R  A  B  I A                                                                          _0 _-- 
0    Project sites - smoll facilities                                                                    /                                                                                            IS: SUDAN\S.o  \
L    Detalied area maps of Fisheries ProjectII:                                                        /SUDa
ISRD 12777, 14053                                                                                                                                     , .P .EOPLE!nc
Sanaw                   Shihaen                                      R V   'PEMPcRAtIc
4.   Fisher es port and protected anchorage                                                                                                   /-0 ,   P                                                                                               .=
*    Fhsher es landing sites                                                                 /EH OPIA                                                                                                                                     )  -
A    Boatyards                                                                              '    ,                                                                                                           o-e   A I  'M
V    Ice plnts/                                                                                                                       Thamud                                                           17/
Asphalted roads                                                                  /
17'         ----O----  ther roads or tracks                                                        /                                                                                                                                          W d F.M I
F    National capital                                                                                                                                                       rRD12777 /6-6f-dI
- 2000 Bothymetric conto.rs in meters                  1                                                                                                                                                                          t 40 -
- Cliffs or hills                                                        /Y1amib                                                                                                                                                                 -W -
The Governorates                                Ia/                                                                                                                            Monakh                       _- 1   Y a      r      u      ot
Governorate boandaries                                           /                             ------
- -Interrtionol bo.adornes                                                                                                                                     - AlAh- Markaz A:Har--'
| 16  i    /     'Hayr ¢ian                               m H   -; r                                                                                                                    /
j    /                    ~~~~~~~~~~---- ---<yD                                 '          w     ;    s    7     k           AFRTAK
I            oif                  _ _                                   \                                                  Zishn/iibanO   o                           Ar ebian    Sea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arbin  e
-Y E M E N   A R A B                                                                                                                                                                       p -/                         )g
Al Mghfidb~                                                                                                                                isf
tj 00  5&-                         -t   4£    -                                                                        XJ4Cs.Owlf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-3
Lpwdv          ud, Y           r PI,-                                              -                va                                                                                                    s
-                                                                                                                                                                                           hd el K0~~~~~~~~~E K,s
a   25  So  75  10  125  Ir150 75  200                                                         0          i.'
Oil   TI                                                                                                                                                                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~       soo~~~~~~ot. ~~~~~~~DaroaL                  A?1  5  7  lo  2
4e              ~~~~47'40                                     40'                   50          75                                  0                      3'                     4






I BRD 12777R
50431                                      5100                                      O1 30'                                     5AU                                        52n0ob5 334                                             MARCH 979
ro Nshtun- Tobut IFrom N/shfun- Tbut HuX AN
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen                                                     efm srares                                                  tovilloges*
~~ t~~~~'   -- ~~~      Fresh Fish in ce,   Water, oil, ice, repoir
FISHERIES  PROJECT  II                                                             f                                   engines for repair, etc. trucks, gear, etc.
SIXTH GOVERNORATE                                                                                                                            \
Proposed  Traffic Flows, Project Sites and  Elements
dSea route traffic                     &  Fish receiving stations
---Periodic sea route trOffic            RI Insulated bos for ice and fish                                                                                                  do
I Rood traffic                       V  Ice plants                                                 T     to -E,ysul
__    Periodic road traffic                                                                            Hadro w,
Project road upgrading            0 Tanks for fuel and woter                                    Dry goods orly
Project water supply or improvements   O Workshops and stores
Eisting tracks:                                                                                           '                                                                                                /  /lore
-___- Poor quality                       A Main radio stations             -                                                                         Al-         j |                                            trfi/
…----  Almost impass.ble
iRil,er                                                           ,               From Tabut        From N,nhfur t,                         7         I      "
Water courses, usually dry                            -6oNshfurr    toTobut, w/oges                                                  '        /                                         A   r  o  b  i a  n
:  -coothymetric contour in meters                                            Frozen fish, fresh fish   Ice, fuel oil
Y-VI The Governorates
Governorate boundaries                                                                         \ut                                                                                             5  e  a_
)International boundaries                                                                                              N SHORE/
:          a       to      20      30     40      00      60      7o      to
|                            KaL~~~~~IO4OmEC5                                                        "'-O,,  _                                                                                           lecy eopo;t.-
j   o       lo          20           30           40           50                                                                                                                                      Frozen fishJ
I '     LES                                                                                                   tHAROR AND SHnE BASE
.    . \:,?1                                                                                                        f -VOE)
t    \    /    <    t    *   -   ;   --'i   \>  >  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - \ \ | EarJe fishmg ve55rs1 |~~~~~~~~~tr-g  ft/ingeeoe
/                                 o~~~~~~~~~evcr-,iig and emerge,cy1
)t\o                                                                                                                                                               , /7 Iso<SAUDI ARABIlA                            _ ..  /   (            . OMAN
'K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'h
--------------                                                                                                                                                                                            >(l.A.e<
Y , I. / i / } Ssiyun i 3itS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i.                                                                                                  W       t
/DEMEN ARAB  ,*                 r'RXPUBLIC OF YEMEN
'> ~~~ | No Mukr-711a an~~~~~~~~~dAden:  IFron7 Adenarnd Mukoillo. F'   
Fresh fish in ic, frozen|    General cargo, oil  ls*: /        )
--                                                                                  ||--  3t30  5200  ojisoTi           Ga/f of Adan                2  no  IU2 157 tosernoew.E
I    tgCr   s OV .R                            51-13C                                     52wj0V  |NJI30NVTI 54'  46'  4,E'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i1.i






IBRD 14053
JANUARY 1979
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
FISHERIES PROJECT II
/0                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nishtun  Port Facilities
Oil and water hydrants
-~Roads and embankments
30~ ---Elevation contours in meters
GENERAL CA    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-5------Bathymetric contours in meters
tchman's  sTOOING Y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 00 20                 30    O
Gen,cia ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~f
A  40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



