DLcument of
The World Bank
FOX OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE  C Opy
Repor No. P-2571-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TIE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND
EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
SEOCND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 30, 1979
This doement ba a rucfted iblbutlin mm may be _e by rewipiets e.y in the perfonmance of
their e       dties lb eontents ma   Omehww  be dslod withou Word Ba  anthr6aon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978                April 1979
Currency Unit        -         Yemeni Dinars (YD)              YD
US$1        =        YD 0.345                         0.345
YD1        '        US$ 2.90                         2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31 (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31 (1975)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1976)
ABBREVIATIONS
APA           -           Aden Port Authority
EEC           -           European Economic Community
MAAR          -           Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform
NFW           -           Ministry of Fish Wealth
NCSC          -           National Cold Storage Company
OECD          -           Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development
PCFW          -           Public Corporation for Fish Wealth
PCC           -           Project Coordination Committee
PIU           -           Project Implementation Unit
PPF           -           Project Preparation Facility



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (E'DRY)
Amount:                $10.0 million in various currencies (IDA)
$3.0 million in various currencies (EEC)
Terms:                 Standard
Pro)ic t
Description:          The project seeks to increase  income ancl economic well-
being in the Sixth Governorate, which is one of the
pooresL and nost remote regions of PDRY, and to improve
access to it. The project consists of the construction
of a fisheries cum general cargo port together with
supporting infrastructure at Nishtuni; the construction
of fish receiving, processing and storage facilities
together with the development of an efficient system for
exploiting fish, which is about the only major and
abundant resource in the Sixth Coverniorate; and the con-
struction of a 19 kin road to provide a link between the
new port and the nine fishing villages which would
supply fish under the project.  The project also includes
technical assistance comprising 454 man months of consul-
tants' services to assist with project implemnentation and
operation of the completed  facilities for the initial
years; services ,t experts to assist the Ministry of Fish
Wealth in fleet mrianagement, cold store operations and
export marketing; and a national study to assess nutri-
tional. deficiencies anid recommend remedial measures
for possible inclusioni in a subsequent IDA-financed
project. The principal beneficiaries would be the area's
small--scale traditional fishing population whose annual
per capita income on the average would more than double
from about $151 t:o $339 whien the project is fully developed
in 1986.  The major risks facing the project are:  (i)
imnpleinentatiorn delays; (ii) inefficient. operation of the
facilities once completed; and (iii) possible overex--
ploitation by in(dustrial trawlers of the fishing grounds
in the project area. Provisions have been included in the
project to minimize these risks.
This docuumn li has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                             Local         Foreign          Total
--------$ million -----------
Port Facilities                              2.9             6.2            9.1
Fisheries Facilities                         0.8             3.4            4.2
Fisheries Cooperative Development            0.4             0.9            1.3
Road Construction and Fresh Water
Supply                                     1.8            2.6             4.4
Technical Assistance,
Training & Studies                         0.4             3.2            3.6
Working Capital                              0.2               -            0.2
Physical Contingencies                        1.3            2.4            3.7
Price Contingencies                          1.8_            3.7            5.5
Total Project Cost                         9.6           22.4            32.0
Financing Plan:                             Local         Foreign          Total
…$-------$ million -----
IDA Credit                                    -             10.0           10.0
EEC Special Action Credit                    3.0              -             3.0
Cofinancier                                  3.6            12.4           16.0
PDRY Government                              3.0              -             3.0
Total                                      9.6           22.4            32.0
Estimated IDA   IDA FY    FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86  FY87
Disbursements:              --------  $ million ----------------------
Annual                       1.1    0.7    2.7    3.5    1.5    0.2    0.2   0.1
Cumulative                   1.1    1.8    4.5    8.0    9.5    9.7    9.9  10.0
Estimated Completion Date: June 30, 1986
Rate of Return:               27 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:       No. 2407-YDR of May 23, 1979
Regional Projects Department, EMENA



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN FOR A SECOND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENI' PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $10.0 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, and a
proposed EEC Special Action Credit, expressed in the currencies of the nine
EEC Member States equivalent to about $3 million on the terms agreed with
the EEC, 1/ to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), to help
finance a second Fisheries Development: project in the Sixth Governorate.
The Govermnent of Libya has expressed, in principle, its interest in co-
financing this project together with the Association under parallel financing
arrangements.
PART I - ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen:  Current
Economic Position and Prospects" (2151a-YDR), dated December 28, 1978, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 11, 1979. An economic
mission to review the second Five-Year Plan visited PDRY in March-April 1979
and an economic report is under preparation.  A country data sheet is attached
as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.        Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently
pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context of a socialist
society.  The principal objectives of the Government have been (a) to satisfy
the basic needs of the population for food, essential consumer goods, shelter,
employment, health care and other social ser-vices; (b) to develop the produc-
tion capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture, fisheries, inclustry,
construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the infrastructure sectors, i.e.,
transport, power and teLecommunicaticns; (d) to raise education standards,
emphasizing technical and higher educationi; and (e) to increase exports of
domestic products.
4.        In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily
on a strong publ:ic sector and on cooperatives.  Major institutional reforms
were initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in. 1969 which
brought the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking,
insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent investment
in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities.  Two agrarian
1/   These are standard IDA terms except that currencies would be repaid in
the amounts disbursed.



- 2 -
reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
farm organizations--state farms and production cooperatives--were created to
facilitate the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques.
Fishing and consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two
of the remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refinery (British
Petroleum) and an international communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--.
were transferred by mutual consent to the Government of PDRY.
5.        Private enterprises have been allowed to exist mainly in trade,
manufacturing and construction. But the private sector was given a subsidiary
role and private entrepreneurs are expected to follow the lead of the public
sector. Cooperation between public and private enterprises is encouraged in
some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of joint ventures
are now active. Foreign private investors have been encouraged to participate
in oil exploration.
6.        Increasingly comprehensive economic and social planning is being
used as the principal tool to implement PDRY's development objectives. In
1971 the Government launched its first: development program, covering the
three-year period of 1971/72-1973/74. The program focussed largely on a
nuriber of public sector projects which were to be carried ou.t with the help of
foreign capital and technical assistance.  It was followed by a more detailed
Five-Year Plan (1974/75-1978), which in addition to the invE.stment program,
introduced specific targets for the major economic and social sectors.  At
the beginning of this year, the Governiment started its second Five-Year Plan
(1979-1983). It is based on a macro-economic framework, detailed sector
analysis and consistent investment objectives. In addition to infrastructure
and productive sectors the Plan covers such areas as foreigr. and domestic
trade, manpower development, social sectors, and production planning. While
still relying on technical assistance from foreign experts the Government has
substantially strengthened its own planning capability. Plan preparation and
execution has thus become increasingly the responsibility of Yemeni staff in
the Ministry of Planning, in technical ministries, and in public enterprises
and cooperatives.
7.        The second Five-Year Plan continues to pursue the overall develop-
ment objectives outlined in paragraph 3 above.  It proposes a totai invest:ment
of $1,070 million (in 1977 prices) for 1979-83 of which 32 percent is allo-
cated for infrastructure (including electric power), 29 percent for agriculture
and fishing, 16 percent for industry :including oil and mineral exploration,
and 8 percent for education.  The Plan assumes that about $730 million (68
percent) will be financed through foreign capital, and the remaining $340
million from domestic resources.
8.        In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of constraints,
the most important ones being limited natural resources, insufficient tech-
nical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh climate
severely limits the area available for cultivation, although substantial
increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher yields, and
by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The narrow domestic



market and few known raw materials limit the scope for industrial development.
These conslraints are compounded by the rugged topography which creates severe
difficulties for internal communications resulting in increased domestic
transport cost.
9.        Lack of adequately trained manpower is another major constraint.
The Government has tried to fill the gap with bilateral and multilateral
technical assistance, including UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY.
In addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education
and training program was launched and in recent years has become increasingly
technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher education abroad,
and the establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY the country
is now generating a growing flow of technically trained people who could
gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower.
10.       Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one
of the principal problems faced by the Government. The reasons for this can
be traced largely to inadequate incentive systems, weak management, shortage
of trained manpower, lack of spare parts, and inadequate maintenance. The new
Plan recognizes these constraints and gives high priotity to measures aimed at
increasing productivity. In this conitext, the Government has recently started
to review the structure of domestic prices aiming at selective price increases
as incentives for agricultural producers and fishermen. Changes in the wage
structure are also being considered with a view to establishing a closer link
betweeni productivity and remuneration.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $4 million in 1970 to $174 million in 1978. The allocation of
investment funds appears to have been well chosen:  half of all public sector
investments during the first Five-Year Plan (1974/75-78) went to the commodity
producing sectors with agriculture and fishing receiving 35 percent, and
industry and mineral exploration 15 percent.  A large share (32 percent) was
invested in infrastructure (including electric power) while the remaining 18
percent was spent for education and other social services. The sharp increase
in public investment was accompanied by a major expansion cf current government
spending on education, health and other public services.
12.       High levels of investment and other public spending have accelerated
the rate of economic growth.  GDP at constant prices grew at an annual average
rate of about 7 percent during 1974-77, compared with only 2 percent per annum
during 1970-73. The major growth sectors were fishing, construction, trade,
transport and government services. Agricultural output increased only slowly,
reflecting the productivity problems mentioned above, while industrial produc-
tion was held back by a decline in petroleum refining. GNI' rose at a faster
rate than GDT' (12 percent p.a. during 1974-77) due to a rapid increase in
workers' remittances.



- 4 -
13.       Substantial progress has been made in achieving a balanced income
distribution, and in the development of social services. State ownership of
production facilities and egalitarian wage/salary structures have reduced
income differentials in the growing public sector. Supplies of basic food-
stuffs and other essential consumer goods are readily available to the urban
population. School enrollment has risen sharply, and health services have
been significantly improved. However, large differences still persist in the
standard of living between urban and rural areas. Rural incomes are estimated
to be only about one-third of average urban incomes, although in some regions
rural incomes are supplemented by remittances from family members working
abroad. The basic reasons for rural poverty appear to be low productivity of
the agricultural and fisheries sectors and possibly adverse terms of trade
between these sectors and the rest of the economy.  Solutions to the problem
can therefore only be found in tackling these basic issues.
14.       To sustain the massive increase in public spending for development
(para. 11), the Government had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial
resources. With a low per capita income, there were severe limitations on
raising domestic resources. The principal instrument used in mobilizing
domestic funds was taxation and containment of Government employee salaries.
New taxes were introduced and tax collection improved. As a result, total
government receipts rose from a level of 12 percent of GNP in 1969/70 to 22
percent in 1977. In a country with a large subsistence sector and a per
capita income of about $320 in 1977, this would have been difficult to exceed.
Government employee salaries were reduced twice, in 1968/69 and in 1972/73;
since then they have risen less than the cost of living. Notwithstanding
these efforts domestic resources remained insufficient to cover all public
expenditures.
15.       To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies.  Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries, and
more recently by Arab nations.  In addition, PDRY received support from
regional and international organizations, including IDA and the IMF. The
exact amount of all foreign resources put at the disposal of the country is
not known since some of the commodity aid has not been recorded either in
the budget or in the balance of payments. But, on the basis of identifiable
aid, it is estimated that aggregate disbursements rose fromi an average level
of some  $8 million per annum during 1969/70-1971/72 to about $128 million
in 1978.
16.       The rapid expansion of the! public sector, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports.  The value
of imports has more than quadrupled since the beginning of the decade, from
an average of $89 million per arnum during 1970/71 to an estimated $359 mil-
lion in 1978.  Besides the devaluation of the US dollar, this mainly reflects
price increases for foodstuffs and petroleum products and the growing capi-
tal goods imports necessitated by the country's ambitious developmernt program.
The growth in import value has placed a heavy burden on PDRY's foreign exchange
budget, all the more so as the country exports relatively little and thus bene-
fits only marginally from price rises in the world markets.



- 5 -
17.       Indigenous exports have been able to cover only a minor share of the
import bill. In 1978, they were estimated to be about $19 million or some 5
percent of commodity imports. Much more important than commodity exports are
PDRY's invisible earning which are dominated by workers' remittances. The
latter rose rapidly since the mid-1970's, increasing from $56 million in 1975
to an estimated $258 million in 1978. This has been due to rising wage
levels in the oil surplus countries, to some additional emigration, and to,
new incentives which liberalized "own exchange" imports, allow the construc-
tion of private dwellings, and offer high interest rates to non-resident bank
depositors.
Foreign Aid and External Debt
18.       Fast growing exchange earnings and increasing disbursements from
foreign aid (para. 15) have enabled PDRY in recent years to cover its import
requirements and to strengthen its foreign reserves. The latter rose from $55
mi'Llion at end 1975 to $189 million at end 1978, equivalent to about half of
last year's imports.
19.       The large inflow of foreign resources led to a rapid accumulation
of PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in
the form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of
end 1978 amounted to $753 million, of which $311 million was disbursed.
Bilateral sources account for 73 percent of total commitments with the USSR
providing the bulk ($235 million), followed by China ($132 million), other
Eastern European countries ($102 million) and by Arab countries ($75 million).
Multilateral aid anmounted to $207 million including $154 million from Arab
Funds, and $53 millon from IDA. The average terms of these loans are highly
concessionary giving a grant element of about 54 percent. In addition, PDRY
has received about $148 million (until the end of 1978) in grant assistance,
mostly from Arab countries.
20.       The soft terms of PDRY's external debt has resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1978 were $2 mil-
lion or less than 1 percent of total exchange earnings from exports of goods
and services (including workers' remittances). However, PDRY's debt service
obligations are projected to increase steadily in future years, which will
exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. Therefore, :in view of
the above and the limited resources of the country, the Bank's assistance to
PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms. For the same reason, local cost
financing by IDA is justified.
21.        In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Govzernment nation-
alized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (para. 4).  This law provided
for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing interest of
2 percent.  Twenty-five percent of the net annual prof'its oE all the nation-
alized compan-ies were to be used for servicing these bonds. In response, some
of the foreigni banks which were nationalized froze substantial Yemeni deposits
which they had tranisferred abroad. Immediately after the promulgation of Law
No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of accountants of interna-
tional repute to audit the accounts of all the nationalized companies and



evaluate their assets. The audit report was submitted to the Government in
September 1971. Settlements were reached soon after with three of the foreign
banks involved. Agreements were finalized with three additional banks in
1977, with two oil companies in late 1977 and early 1978 and with a develop-
ment finance company in mid-1978. Negotiations are presently underway with
the two remaining oil companies and contacts with other former owners have
been maintained with a view to reaching mutually acceptable settlements.
Dialogue with debtors have, however, been very slow since they have only
recently responded to the Government's efforts to settle claims. The Govern-
ment professes its desire to reach a mutually satisfactory solution with all
claimant companies, and has expressed its willingness to consider such settle--
ment outside the terms of the 1969 Nationalization Law. The Government has
aLso decided to become a member of the International Center for Settlement of
Investment Disputes and is in the process of completing its application for
membership.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
22.       To date, the Association has 11 operations in PDRY, for a total
IDA commitment of $53.2 million. PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in
1970, but is not a member of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971
and, after a hiatus of about two years (February 1976 to February 1978)
because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for this period had been committed more
rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in 1978. Of the present total IDA
commitment, about $20.3 million was for assistance in building up physical
infrastructure and strengthening institutions in the transportation sector,
through the provision of three highway credits and a credit for the reha-
bilitation and modernization of the Aden port. One of the highway projects
was successfully completed in Decernber 1975. An engineering credit was
refinanced under the credit for the Second Highways (Mukalla-Seiyun road)
project now under way. Agriculture (including fisheries) eraploys about 43
percent of PDRY's labor force and contributed about 20 percent to the coun-
try's GDP in 1977. Although thie cultivable area is severely limited by
difficult terrain and harsh climatic conditions, the potential for increasing
agricultural output through use of improved inputs and modern practices is
considerable.  IDA has assisted in che development of agriculture and fisherias
through the provision of four credits amaounting to $17.3 million. The first -
fisheries project w,ras beset by cost overruns and as a result a supplementary
credit was approved in FY1975 to provide the additional financing needs.
Two agricultural credits approved in FY1976 and FY1978 respectively focus
primarily on increasing yield throughl the introduction of modern inputs and
agricultural practices in Wadi Hadrarnawt and Wadi Tuban.  A credit of $5.0
1/   Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from the previous
President's Report for the Second Education Project (P-2420-YDR),
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1, 1978.



- 7 -
million was approved in FY1978 to help finance a power project in Wadi
Hadramawt which, upon completion, will provide an impetus to agricultural
developmient by providing electricity to drive the ground water irrigation
pumps. An IDA credit of $5.4 million approved in FY1975 for an education
project will assist in alleviating the problems of inadequate facilities
and shortage of suitably qualified teachers. Another credit: of $4.0 million
approved in FY1979 for a second education project will concentrate on train-
ing urgently needed skilled and semi-skilled workers in the agricultural,
industrial and commercial sectors. An engineering credit of $1.2 million was
approved in FY1978 to finance the preparation of a water supply master plan
and feasibility studies for the rehabilitation and expansion of the water
supply systems in the two largest cities of Aden and Mukalla. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA Credits as of April 30, 1979, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       The Association's lending program in PDRY aims mainly at supporting
the Government's long-range economic objective of broadening the base of a
service-oriented economy centered around Aden, by developing the productive
capacity of the other sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the
outlying regions. Efforts have been directed towards projects in the trans-
port sector, which would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of
PDRY, but, more importantly, link production areas with the main markets.
Other sectors where the Association has assisted and will continue to assist,
are in the field of agriculture, including the key fisheries subsector.
Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to be an integral
feature in the Association's projects in PDRY.
24.       Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.  A
follow-up Agricultural project in Wadi Hadramawt is expected to result from
an ongoing stuldy by consultants financed under the first Wadi Hadramawt proj-
ect.  A Third Highway project prepared with funds provided under the Second
Highway project has been appraised. A study by consultants, financed through
bilateral assistance, which could possibly lead to an IDA financed agricultural
project in Wadi Beihan, has been completed and project preparation work
started. As in the recent past, the costs of future projects are expected to
be substantially higher than the funds the Association can provide to PDRY.
Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other development agencies
to join the Association in the financing of suitable projects. The Association
has, between FY1971 and FY1978, successfully played a catalytic role through
its projects in securing about $30 million of cofinancing from other aid
donors (UNDP $0.7 million; Kuwait Fund $15.3 million; and the Arab Fund $13.6
million), thus assisting in increasing the inflow of development aid to the
country. 1/
1/   This excludes $6.1 million to be obtained for the Wadi Tuban project
(CR. 768-YDR) and $20.0 million for the Power project (CR. 829-YDR).



- 8 -
PART III - THE FISHERIES SECTOR
Fisheries in the National Economy
25.       Fish wealth is the richest known natural resource in PDRY which
belongs to the UN defined group of least developed countries. The country's
coastal waters and the wider Gulf of Aden are among the most productive
fishing grounds in the world. Given the extreme scarcity of other known
domestic resources, the development of fisheries holds considerable promise
in alleviating the country's two most critical problems--that of boosting
food production and of increasing foreign exchange earnings. The Association,
from its earliest involvement in economic work in PDRY, has also drawn atten-
tion to the potential of the sector. With a contribution of about 10 percent
to GDP in 1977, fisheries is the country's most important productive sector.
Its 59 percent share in the country's commodity exports in the same year made
it also by far the most important foreign exchange earner. Measured against
the sector's potential, however, these achievements can at best be considered
modest. The sector suffers from extremely low overall productivity and
presently exploits only a fraction of the sustainable yield of its fish
resources (compare the 1976 catch of 170,000 tons with estimated annual
sustainable yields of between 370,000 and 700,000 tons).
Government Policy and Investment
26.       The evolution of PDRY's fisheries sector over the last decade has
been characterized by three major policy measures. Following independence
in 1967 and the Government's decision to direct economic activities within
the framework of social planning, consistent with socialist objectives,
traditional fisheries in the country were socialized and organized into 14
cooperatives. Concurrently, the traditional fish marketing structure was
abolished and replaced by a cooperative marketing system controlled through
Government administered prices. The second po:Licy measure expanded the
fisheries sector by introducing a fleet of large, highly mechanized industrial
fishing vessels and associated shore facilities for processing and storage of
fish, the objective being to more rapidly exploit the country's rich fish
resources, primarily for export, thereby increasing the country's extremely
low levels of foreign exchange earnings. With the adoption of the last
policy measure, PDRY's fishing grounds, three miles beyond the shore, were
opened to foreign fishing fleets which now operate under joint venture
agreements with the Government. As a result of these policies, the fisheries
sector in PDRY is characterized by two modes of operations, traditional and
industrial.
27.       Recognizing the important role of the fisheries sector in the
national economy, the Government has made substantial capital outlays for
its development over the years. About 14 percent of the entire development
expenditures, or about $66.0 million, were accounted for by fisheries between
1971 and 1977.  This emphasis on the sector's development is to continue under
the Second Five Year Plan (1979-83) during which approximately $100 million, or
some 9 percent of the total Plan expenditures of $1,070 million, will be spent



- 9 -
on fisheries development. While the Government through bilateral assistance
concentrates on building a modern, capital-intensive fisheries subsector, the
proposed project would focus on the traditional artisanal fisheries subsector.
This two-pronged approach is expected to strengthen the sector as a whole.
Traditional Fisheries
28.       The restructuring of traditional fisheries into cooperatives and the
introduction of administered prices resulted in a sharp decline in production
and brought investment to a complete stop. Consequently, the present situa-
tion is rather dismal---fishing vessels and engines are old and have long since
passed their useful economic life. In the project area, for example, all
vessels in use are over 10 years old with the fleet's age averaging 15 years.
Vessels which have to be abandoned are not replaced. With a few minor
exceptions, all development resources allocated to the fisheries sector have
been devoted to the development of industrial fisheries. The only major
exception where foreign-provided funds were invested in the traditional
sector was the IDA-financed First Fisheries Development Project (para. 35).
29.       Despite this neglect over the last decade, traditional fisheries
in PDRY remain the more important and more productive force in fisheries
exploitation. During the 1976/77 fishing season, the traditional sector
landed about 140,000 tons of fish compared to the 5,000 tons caught by the
industrial sector. Also, in terms of production per fisherman employed, the
traditional sector compares favorably with the highly capital intensive
modern sector. The fisheries sector in PDRY would ultimately have to undergo
substantial modernization to achieve production targets beyond the reach of
its present traditional fishing fleet. However, the development potential of
traditional fisheries has been greatly underestimated and even without under-
going extensive modernization it still holds substantial promise for further
expansion.
Industrial Fisheries
30.        Industrial fisheries was introduced in PDRY only about 10 years ago,
at which time the Government decided that traditional fisheries alone was not
capable of exploiting the country's fish resources at attainable levels.
Within a short period thereafter, 17 new and used trawlers ranging in size
from 150 to 1,500 gross tons were acquired from Japan, the Soviet Union and
the People's Republic of China. Eight purse seiners were later purchased from
Norway and Spain to catch sardines and anchovies and orders for yet another
five purse seiners have been placed recently in Japan. The establishment of
the industrial fishing fleet has been accompanied by a rapid buildup of fish
processing and storage facilities some of which are still under construction.
31.       The imposition on the traditional fishing community of this rapid
expansion and diversification of industrial fisheries, together with a weak
and inexperienced administrative structure lacking the rudimentary technical
and managerial capability, has resulted in poor functioning of this highly
mechanized industry.  Measured against the country's trained manpower
resources, there appears to have been overinvestment in the industrial



- 10 -
fisheries sector, and this is clearly demonstrated by the low plant utiliza-
tion rate which is around 20 percent. No major improvement in performance
can be expected in the near future, as the key element, manpower can only
be trained over the longer term. For the present, expatriates are used
extensively to skipper the fishing vessels.
Fisheries Administration
32.       In 1977, the importance of the fisheries sector was administratively
recognized by elevating the former Public Corporation for Fish Wealth (PCFW),
which operated under the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR),
to the ministerial level. The Ministry of Fish Wealth (MFW') as it is now
known has, in addition to its administrative, fiscal and regulatory duties,
the responsibility for operation and maniagement of the industrial fleet, a
fleet of small boats, a chain of cold stores and fish processing plants, joint
venture operations and domestic and export marketing. Recently the MFW's
responsibility was further enlarged by transferring to it jurisdiction over
all fisheries cooperatives in the country from MAAR, the objective being to
improve coordination between the sect:or's basic productive units and its
national administrative and policymaking body. The Government has recognized
the need to strengthen and streamline MFW's operations and its administrative
structure which are basically weak (para. 31).  A step taken in this direction
was to establish the National Cold St:orage Company (NCSC) which would operate
the chain of cold stores on a commercial basis and plan future expansions.
The proposed project would also provide assistance to strengthen MFW's
operations (para. 46).
Constraints to Fisheries Development
33.       Severe shortage of adequately trained technicians and administrators
is undoubtedly the major constraint to the development of the sector. Besides
concentrating on increasing the pool of skilled manpower, the Government needs
to adopt a more commercial approach to the sector's operations to avoid under-
utilization of its expensive facilities. Better incentives to traditional
fishermen in the form of higher prices are also needed to substantially
increase fish production. The Government recognizes the need to provide
higher incentives and is presently considering the adoption of a new scale of
prices (para. 58).
IDA Strategy and Past Lending
34.       IDA's strategy for fisheries development in PDRY is primarily
oriented towards the traditional small-scale sector. The traditional sector
is composed of about 13,000 fishermeni living in approximately 40 villages
scattered alc.ng the country's 1,500 lkm coastline. Most of these fishing
communities are poor and lack many of the essential facilities to meet their
basic needs.  The fishermen, although skillful and hardworking, are greatly
underemployed and have no productive alternative to fishing.  Thus, invest-
ments in traditional fisheries reach a large segment of the impoverished
rural population and have a widespread development impact. IDA's assistance
in the development of this sector, therefore focuses on improving income and
economic well-being of the traditional fishermen through strategic investments



- 11 -
in infrastructure and adapted production technology suited to the country.
Technical assistance and training will also be included as integral components
of IDA financed projects to assist in alleviating the acute shortage of trained
manpower needed for the development and efficient management of the sector.
The selection of components for the proposed project reflects this strategy.
35.       IDA's assistance to the fisheries sector in PDRY began with a
credit for $3.5 million in 1973 to develop the traditional coastal fishing
subsector.  The principal components of the project provided for the:  (i)
construction of shore facilities for processing, freezing and storage of
fish at Mukalla and Shihr in the Fifth Governorate; (ii) construction of
100 traditional fishing vessels; and (iii) provision of technical assistance
and consulting services. The project is now nearing completion but is about
two years behind the appraisal estimate primarily because of the delays
encountered in locating a suitable expatriate project manager and the cost
overruns experienced almost immediately after the credit was declared effec-
tive in 1974. To assist in meeting the increased costs of the project, IDA
approved a supplemental credit of $1.5 million in 1975.
36.       In order to avoid similar difficulties that could result from
delays in the start of implementation of the proposed second project, IDA
has advanced an additional $550,000 from the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) 1/ to enable work on detailed engineering to begin in mid-May 1979,
and to have Lhe tendering phase completed by the time the credit is expected
to become effective around October 1979. Project implementation could start
sometime thereafter, thereby reducing the risk of possible cost overruns. The
Government, recognizing the need to recruit the project manager at an early
date, has already begun looking for a qualified port engineer.
The Project Area
37.       The project area is located in the eastern part of the Sixth
Governorate, bordered on the west by the Ras Fartak mountain range which ends
precipitoLsly in the sea and the Omani border on the east.  The coastline is
characterized by long stretches of sandy beaches, backed by ,deserts and hills
up to 800 in in altitude, and interspersed with sections of rocky cliffs.
A complete lack of transportation infrastructure isolates it from the western
parts of the country. Access by Land from Mukalla in the Fifth Governorate is
only possible via Seiyun in the Wadi Hadramawt over 300 km of rough vehicle
tracks crossing rugged terrain resulting in prohibitive transportation costs.
Access by sea is impossible during the monsoon seasons and otherwise limited
because of a total absence of berthing and unloading facilities resulting in
heavy loss of and damage to the cargo. The result has been a generally low
level of development compared to other parts of the country.
1/   An advance of $300,000 from the PPF was made in 1977 to assist the
Government in completing the feasibility study for the proposed project.



- 12 -
38.       The area is extremely poor in natural resources except for fish,
of which it has one of the richest underexploited stocks offshore.  Lacking
access to outside markets, economic development has stagnated at the subsis-
tence level. The nine fishing villages in the project area are dispersed over
approximately 150 kml of coastline with a total population of about 10,000.
The fishermen population consists of 450 full-time and about 500 seasonal
fishermen who travel from their inland villages to the coast during the main
fishing season, and return with dried sardines used for animal feed and
fertilizer. The fishing fleet in the project area consists entirely of
traditional vessels numbering about 155, the majority of which are old and
small in size and some are ready for abandoning. The proposed project (Part
IV) would link the area with the outside world and provide an impetus for
increased economic activity. Nishtun, a natural bay and the site of the
project facilities, is located east of the Ras Fartak mountain range, 1,500 km
by land and 500 nautical miles by sea from Aden. The village consists of
about 50 dwellings and a total population of about 500. Although Nishtun Bay
lends itself ideally to the construction of a port, the area is difficult to
reach by land, as it is surrounded by mountain ridges and fresh water must be
brought from Wadi Fuari, 40 km away.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
39.       The project was identified during the appraisal of the First
Fisheries Development Project in 1972. Funids for a feasibility study for
the proposed project were in part provided under the first project and were
supplemented in 1977 through a $300,000 advance from the PPF. The Scandinavian
consulting firm, Prosjektering, submitted a final feasibility report in August
1978, on the basis of which the project was appraised in November 1978. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington from May 1 to May 4, 1979. PDRY's delegation
was headed by Mr. Abdul Wahab Sharaf, Deputy Minister of Fish Wealth. A staff
appraisal report entitled, "Second Fisheries Development Project", No. 2407-
YDR, dated May 23, 1979, is being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Maps of the project area and a layout of the proposed port
facilities are attached to this report.
Project Objectives
40.       The project seeks to increase income and economic well-being in
the Sixth Governorate, one of the poorest and remotest regions of PDRY, by
developing an efficient system of exploiting fish, which is about the only
major and abundant resource. It would aim at gradually upgrading the area's
age-old traditional fishing techniques to higher levels of productivity and
at providing more productive employment for the local labor force for whom
no alternative employrment opportunity exists in the area.  Bly means of a
land-based collection system, fish landed in the project area's nine fish-
ing villages would be delivered to processing and storage facilities to be



- 13 -
established within the proposed port of Nishtun in the Sixth Governorate from
where fish would be directly exported or transshipped to the country's main
consumption centers. The project would be by far the largest development
effort and one of the few ever undertaken in the area east of Mukalla, and,
because of its infrastucture components, it would not only assist in the
exploitation of the area's fish resources, but would also be the focal point
for the accelerated development of the entire region.
Project Description
41.        The project consists of the following components:  (a) the construc-
tion of a fisheries cum general cargo port at Nishtun; (b) the construction of
fLsheries facilities at Nishtun Port together with the development of a system
for the efficient exploitation of fish; (c) the provision of fishing vessels,
outboard engines, fishing gear, and repair and maintenance facilities for the
development of fisheries cooperatives; (d) the construction of a 19 km road
and fresh water supply system; (e) the provision of technical assistance and
training; and (f) studies.
42.        Construction of a Fisheries Cum General Cargo Port at Nishtun.  The
proposed port, performing a multipurpose function, would be the project's main
component and would establish a link between the hitherto isolated project
area and the outside world. The fish landed in the project fishing villages
would be channeled through the proposed port to the country's main consumption
centers in the west and to the markets abroad. The port's marine facilities
would include a breakwater of approximately 290 m length, a 100 m rock filled
groyne to prevent sand from intruding into the harbor basin and a ramp equipped
with a winch to haul the small traditional vessels for repair and maintenance.
The port would have a draught ranging from 2.5 m to 7.5 m at low tide which
would allow vessels of up to 3,000-4,000 tons to dock. Loading, handling and
storage facilities for general cargo would be provided to facilitate the flow
of about 75,000 tons of general cargo to pass through the port from 1984
onwards.
43.        Construction of Fisheries Facilities at Nishtun Port.  The designed
capacities of these facilities would accommodate about 6,800 tons of fresh
fish per year or about two-thirds of the projected fish landings in the
nine project villages. Fish brought to Nishtun would be cleaned, frozen and
stored either in cartons on pallets or in bulk in one of four 200-ton cold
rooms where it. would await shipment.  The facilities would also include an
ice plant which would produce up to 40 tons of flake ice every 24 hours.
The land-based fish collection system would be organized to minimize exposure
of the catch to the intensive heat prevalent in the project area and its
unsophisticated handling by the local fishermen.  Fish catches landed in the
project fishing villages would be placed on ice in insulated boxes and shipped
in insulated trucks to one of the two fish receiving stations located in
Muhayfif and Eeidami where they would be collected and transshipped in
larger refrigerated trucks to the processing facilities at llishtun.
44.        Provision of Fishing Vessels, Outboard Engines, Fishing Gear,
Repair ancd Maintenance Facilities. The project would providle 35 traditional
24-feet outboard fishing vessels.  All but eight would be to replace aging



- 14 -
vessels.  As a pilot operation, the suitability and acceptability of a small
number of more advanced vessels would be tested in the project area to iden-
tify the type most appropriate for modern small-scale fishing and which could
at a later stage replace the traditional vessels. Most of the outboard
engines now in use in the project area have long passed their useful economic
life and require frequent repairs. The project would therefore re-equip
almost the entire local fleet with new 6-8 hp outboard engines. Similarly,
the fleet's fishing gear would be replaced under the project. A mobile
workshop would visit the nine project villages as needed to make necessary
repairs and provide maintenance to keep the fleet operational at all times.
45.        Construction of a 19 km Road and Fresh Water Supply System.  To
facilitate the transportation of fresh fish to the processing and storage
facilities at Nishtun several times a day via a land-based fish collection
system, a hard surface road of 19 km length, crossing a difficult mountain
ridge, would be built under the project. The road would also accommodate the
entire cargo traffic into and out of the port. Substantial quantities of
fresh water required for ships calling at Nishtun and for fish processing and
ice making are planned to be brought from Wadi Fuari about 40 km away either
through trucking or through the construction of a pipeline or a combination of
both.  Desalination of the sea water to meet the project's needs are also
being considered as an alternative.  However, it is possible that fresh water
may be found closer to Nishtun as a result of the groundwater investigation
presently underway.  In order to accommodate design changes needed as a result
of such a find, the present design for the water supply system has been kept
as flexible as possible. Any new design alternatives would only be an improve-
ment over the present situation and could be accommodated wit:h the present
cost estimates.
46.       Provision of Technical Assistance and Training.  The project
provides for a total of 454 man-months of consultants' services ($3.0 million
excluding contingencies), of which 144 man-months would be for consultants'
services needed for detailed engineering, tender document preparation and
construction supervision. The services of a port engineer for 48 man-months
would be provided to assist the Government with project implementation (para.
51). Upon completion of the fisheries facilities, the Government would enter
into a management agreement with an internationally experienced fishery
corporation to operate them for an initial period of three years until Yemenis
are adequately trained to assume charge (para. 53). The project includes funds
for the services of three experts for a total of 108 man-mont:hs to be provided
by the abov-e corporation to manage the operation at Nishtun. About 10 man-
monthis would be for the carrying out of a national nutrition study (para. 47)
and about 12 man-morLths for additional studies that might be necessary during
the four years of project implementation (para. 48).  Another 24 man-mf.onths
would be for the services of a fisheries advisor (para. 53) and the balance
of 108 rman-mont:hs would be for the services of three experts to assist MFW
in operating and managirig its industrial fishing fleet and the chain of cold
stores, and in developing export markets for its fish products.  The assistance
to MFW would be a first step toward more comprehensive techni,cal assistance
which would be included in a possible third fisheries project-.  Te Government
has agreed to appoint these three experts by June 30, 1980 (Section 4.04,
Development Credit Agreement). The cost per man-month of the consultants'



- 15 -
services is approximately $6,600. Funds have also been allocated for about
216 man-months of training abroad for Yemenis in fisheries extension,
administration, fish handling and processing, cold store operation and manage-
ment, and fisheries harbor operation and management. The Government has
agreed to select and send candidates abroad for such training during the
second year of project implementation so that they could be available when the
facilities are completed towards the end of 1984 (Section 3.07, Development
Credit Agreement).
47.       Studies.  Although specific information on the extent of nutritional
deficiency in PDRY is not available, it appears that malnutrition, accompanied
by respiratory and gastro-intestinal diseases, are widespread among children
in the country. This was confirmed by a pilot study undertaken jointly in
1977 by the Swedish Agency for Research Cooperation with Developing Countries
and the Swedish Save the Children Federation. The study was, however, confined
to the survey of children under three years of age in PDRY's mountainous region.
In order to assess nutritional deficiency on a national scale, determine the
extent of its incidence and formulate remedial measures, the study needs to be
extended inLo the desert, coastal. and urban areas of the country. The credit
includes funds for the study which would cover the entire population of under
seven years. Since the above two Swedish groups are already familiar with the
problems and conditions, it is proposed that: the IDA-financed study be under-
taken by them commencing around end-May 1979 and consequently the cost, up to
$70,000, would be financed retroactively (para. 61). The terms of reference
for the study have been approved by the Association, and the Government has
agreed that consultants acceptable to the Association would undertake the
study (Section 3.06(a), Development Credit Agreement). The recommendations
resulting from the study would be considered for possible inclusioni in a
future IDA-financed project.
48.       Additional $0.2 million have been set aside for the financing of
small occasional studies which might becorne necessary during the four-year
implementation period or during the early operation of this complex and
integrated project. The water supply component might possibly require addi-
tional engineering if new groundwater reserves are found closer to Nishtun.
The Goverrnent has agreed that such studies which may later be required will
be carried out in consultation with the Association (Section 3.06(b), D)evelop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Project: Costs and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project, exclusive of duties and taxes which
are not applicable to development projects in PDRY, is estimated at $32.0
million including contingencies; the foreign exchange component is $22.4
mi:Llioni (70 percent). Major items of expenditure are $9.1 million for the
port facilities; $4.2 million for fisheries facilities; $1.3 million for
fisheries cooperative development; $4.4 million for road construction and
fresh water supply; $3.6 million for technical assistance, training and stu-
dies; $0.20 million for working capital; and $9.2 million for contingencies.
50.       The proposed IDA credit of $10.0 million representing about 31
percent of total cost and about 45 percent of estimated foreign costs would



- 16 -
finance the entire foreign exchange costs of the fisheries facilities, the
fishing vessels, outboard engines and equipment required for the fishing
cooperatives and technical assistance. The IDA credit provides for the
repayment of the $850,000 advanced from the PPF for feasibility study and
detailed engineering (para. 36). It is proposed that the EEC Special Action
Account allocation of $3.0 million for PDRY be utilized for local cost financ-
ing (about 31 percent of local costs) to cover the local costs of the marine
works, the residential buildings for project management and the entire work-
ing capital requirement of the Project Implementation Unit. In view of the
limited resources of the country (para. 2C0) and the tight foreign exchange
condition, local cost financing is appropriate. The Government contribution
of $3.0 million would be all in local currency.  The balance of $16.0 million
needed for the construction of the port facilities and the road and water
supply scheme is expected to be provided by Libya under parallel co-financing
arrangements.  The Government has informed the Association that Libya has
expressed interest in principle in financing this project together with IDA
and expects negotiations with them to take place short:ly.  The Government has
indicated that it expects the co-financing funds to be available for disburse-
ment not later than April 30, 1980 and this is satisfactory. The signing of
the co-financing agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
Credit (Section 6.01(b), Development Credit Agreement) and that of the EEC
Special Action Credit (Section 5.01, Special Action Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
51.       Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established under the Planning Depart-
ment of MFW. The PIU would be headed by an experienced expatriate port
engineer who would be the project manager.  Al experienced staff of the MFW
would be assigned to the PIU as the project co-manager. Once the construction
of the marine works and related facilities are fully underway, the Aden Port
Authority (APA) would also assign an experienced staff to the PIU. He would
represent the APA and liaise with its senior staff during project implementation.
The APA would assume responsibility for the operation of the port upon its
completion (para. 54). An experienced local accountant and two to three
support staff would complete the unit. The establishment of the PIU, the
appointment of the expatriate project manager and of the project co-manager
would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Section 6.01(a),
Development Credit Agreement) arnd that of the EEC Special Action Credit.  The
civil works would be carried out by foreign contractors and the PIU would be
assisted by an engineering consulting firm to supervise construction.  The
Government has agreed to appoint engineering consultants with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.133, Development
Credit Agreement).
52.       Since the proposed project is multipurpose in nature, the opera-
tions of its various components would come under the jurisdiction of several
ministries. The MFW would be responsible for the fisheries component, the
Ministry of Communications through the APA for the Nishtun Port, the Ministry
of Construction for the road component, and the Ministry of Planning for gen-
eral coordination and evaluation. l'o ensure that the views of all concerned
ministries are coordinated during project implementation, the Government



- 17 -
has agreed to establish at the start of project implementation a Project
Coordination Committee chaired by the Deputy Minister of Fish Wealth (Section
3.02(d), Development Credit Agreement).  The Committee would meet at least
once a month, or more often if necessary, to establish general policy, take
corrective action, evaluate progress and assist the PIU in implementing the
project expeditiously. The Ministry of Health would be primarily responsible
for the implementation of the nutrition study.
53.       To ensure that the project fisheries facilities are equipped with
appropriate equipment and supplied with adequate fish, the Government has
agreed to appoint a fisheries advisor not later than January 1, 1982 (Section
3.04, Development Credit Agreement). The advisor would assist the PIU with
procurement of fishing gear, vessels and fish transport and handling equip-
ment, and organize the fishermen communities in the nine project viLlages to
utilize the facilities developed under the project. To assist the MFW with
start-up operations and to organize the processing facilities along commercial
lines, the Government has agreed to enter into a management contract with a
fisheries company experienced in international marketing by January 1, 1984
(Section 4.02, Development Credit Agreement). Under the contract, which would
be for a period of three years, the company would provide a management team
comprising a general manager, a fish processing specialist and a fish produc-
tion specialist who would report directly to the Deputy Minister of Fish
Wealth and would be actively involved in mobilizing the fishing communities
in the area and organizing and managing the collection, processing and market-
ing of fish. The contract would also provide appropriate incentive schemes
to encourage the management company to boost production and export. It is
expected that Yemenis, trained tinder the project, would acquire sufficient
expertise throughl on-the-job training during the initial three years of
operation of the project fisheries facilities to assume charge thereafter.
54.       Under the national law in PDRY, the operation of all ports ini the
country is the responsibility of the Aden Port Authority. To ensure the
efficient operations of the Nishtun port, the Government has agreed to
appoint a port manager and a lharbor master at least six months before the
port becomes operational (Section 4.03, Development Credit Agreement). The
port manager would be responsible to the Aden Port Authority.
Credit--in-Kind
55.       The projecL provides for about $1.3 million credit in kind to the
fishing cooperatives.  The MFW through the PIIJ would directly procure the
fishing vessels, outboard engines an(i fishing gear which would be passed on
to the fisheries cooperatives in the nine project villages on credit.  The
Department of Fisheries Cooperatives of the MFW in consultation with the
Central Cooperative, the coordinating body for all specialized cooperatives
in the project area, would evaluate the needs for vessels, outboard engines
and gear in each of the participating villages.  It would be assisted in this
by the fisheries advisor to be appointed under the project (para. 53). Credit
for fully equipped fishing vessels would be repaid by the cooperatives over a
period of eight years with an annual interest of 8 percent,  Repayments of



- 18 -
credit for outboard engines and fishing gear would be made over four years,
also with 8 percent interest. Compared to the average inflation rate of well
below 5 percent over the past three years and the 6 percent projected through
1981, the proposed 8 percent relending rate would be positive. It would also
be well above the current 6 percent and 5-1/2 percent charged for short- and
medium-term agricultural loans in PDRY.  Credit payments would be made through
deductions every six months from the cooperatives' fish sales to the MFW.
This arrangement is similar to that adopted under the First Fisheries project
and which is working satisfactorily. The Government has agreed to the above
on-lending terms (Section 3.05, Development Credit Agreement).
Fish Production and Marketing
56.       The total fish landings in the project area are presently estimated
between 3,800-4,000 tons annually. No regular marketing procedures exist for
the distribution of fresh fish which is caught only in quantities sufficient
for immediate consumption by village populations. Existing marketing facili-
ties can only accommodate dried fish and small amounts of srnoked fish.
Total fish production is, however, expected to increase almost 200 percent and
reach about 1.1,300 tons annually at full project development:. Of this, about
two-thirds or 6,800 tons, would be processed at the Nishtun facilities. The
balance would be consumed locally or channelled to the trad-itional markets.
57.       Prospects for exporting the project's major products are excellent.
A growing demand for fish and shellfish exists in the neighboring Arab coun-
tries which have no import quotas or special duties. Demand for assorted fish
in the Gulf states is also high during the sum,mer when fishing in the Gulf is
curtailed. A concerted export promotion effort in the Far East could develop
major demand for some of the project area's products. Experts familiar with
the Northern European fish markets have indicated that the larger varieties
of sardine found in the project area could well be marketed as a substitute
for herring which is in short supply. These exports would supplement the
already established markets for sardines in Egypt, Libya and Jordan. For
processed shark, Italy offers a ready market. Lobster, shrimp, sea bream and
shark fin have excellent marketing prospects in Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore,
the USA, and Europe. Transshipment would pose no problem as Nishtun Port
would provide berthing facilities for both foreign and domestic fish carrier
vessels which presently call regularly at Aden Port for frozen fish and
shellfish.
Price Policy
58.       Compared to properly adjusted border prices, domestic fish prices
are very low.  Although this difference constitutes a fairly heavy tax burden
on the fishermen, the Government uses it to mobilize funds, mostly in foreign
exchange through the export of fish, for its rapidly expanding development
expenditures.. Domestic prices are also kept low because o'. the Government's
general price policy which is oriented towards low consumeir prices. Prices
paid to fishermen are, however, reviewed from time to time to reflect major
changes in the cost of production and in inflation.  Present fish prices have



- 19 -
been in effect since early 1977. In the Sixth Governorate, however, the MFW's
system of administered prices is not fully established as there is no market-
ing outlet for fresh fish because of lack of storage and transport facilities.
The Government has informed the Association that it is presently reviewing the
existing fish price structure since it is apparent that it does not provide
sufficient incentives necessary for a more intensive exploitation of the
country's fish resources. As part of the review, a considerable increase in
fish prices has been recommended and approval by the Council of Ministers is
expected soon. For purposes of the financial evaluation of the project, the
prevailing prices paid to fishermen have been used.
Cost Recovery
59.        The cost of the fishing vessels, outboard engines and fishing gear
provided to the cooperatives would be fully recovered through the credit
scheme under the project (para. 55). The cost of the fisheries facilities
would also be fully recovered by the Government from the revenues earned
through the export of fish, the regulated domestic prices of which are well
below the world market export prices. Recovery of the operating and main-
tenance costs of the Nishtun Port would be made through charges for the use
of the Port's various services and facilities. The investment cost of the
Nishtun Port would be recovered i.ndirectly by the Government. In pursuing
its policy of maintaining uniform prices for nationally traded commodities
throughout the country, the Government presently provides considerable subsidy
by absorbing their transportation costs. Upon the completion of the Nishtun
Port general cargo would be transported by the cheaper sea route resulting
in considerable savings in transport costs which would reduce the level of
subsidy hither-to provided by the Government. This reduction in subsidy would
result indirectly in a full recovery of the Port's investment costs.
Procurement
60.        Procurement under the credit would be through internationlal competi-
tive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.  Local goods and services
financed from the EEC Special Action Credi-t would be procured in accordance
with Government procedures which are acceptable to the Association. Pr ocure-
ment of items financed, on a parallel basis, by the other external financier
would be according to its own procedures. Bidding documents for civil works
would permait bidding either for the entire work or for separate groups of
items.
Disbursement and Retroactive Financing
61.        Disbursements of the IDA credit would be made over seven years,
covering four years of project implementation and three years of project opera-
tion. Retroactive financing of tup to $70,000 is reconimendedl for the national
nutrition study which, because of tight scheduling of the consultants' work
program, is due to start end May 1979.  Also, since the study is not tied to
the other components, delaying its start until the signing Df the credit was
not deemed necessary. Disbursements woulcd be made on the basis of: (i) 100
percent of foreign expenditures for the fisheries facilities; (ii) 100 percent



- 20 -
of foreign expenditures for fisheries cooperative development; and (iii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and training.
Disbursements from the EEC Special Action Credit would be for 100 percent of
local expenditures for the marine works and residential buildings for project
management, and 100 percent of the expenditures for the PIU working capital.
The proceeds of the EEC Special Action Credit are expected to be committed
within six months of effectiveness and be fully disbursed within two years
thereafter.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
62.       An estimated 1,350 traditional fishermen and their 8,500 family
members are expected to benefit directly from the project. At full develop-
ment, the average fisherman's income would increase to $2,033 from the present
$911. Assuming an average family size of six, the per capita income of the
project beneficiaries would be about $339 or an increase of about 125 percent
over the present per capita income of $151.  While the present per capita
income in the project area is only about 47 percent of the national average
($320), the average per capita income of the beneficiaries at full development
in 1986 would be more favorable, rising to about 64 percent of the estimated
national average per capita income of $534 in that year. These calculations
are based on the existing very low fish prices. An increase in fish prices
now under consideration by the Governmient would further improve the area's
income. The entire population of 60,000 in the Sixth Governorate are also
expected to benefit indirectly as the construction of the porL at Nishtun
would end the area's present isolation by improving accessibility to the
outside world, thereby providing an impetus to accelerate economic development.
This project-induced benefit, although non quantifiable, would be substantial.
63.       At full development, the project's annual incremental production
would be 7,500 tons of fish, valued at $5.5 million equivalent. An estirnated
90 percent of the incremental production would be exported, earning about $5.2
million annually in foreign exchange, sufficient to pay for an estimated
7 percent of the country's food import requirements in 1986. Another major
quantifiable benefit would be in the form of cost savings. As the project
would make the Sixth Governorate more easily accessible by sea, transportation
by the cheaper coastal steamers would replace the more expernsive land route
and result in annual savings of more than $7.0 million. The! port's handling
and storage facilities would reduce losses suffered from spcoilage and damage
and yield a further savings of about $2.0 million annually.
64.       The overall economic rate of return on the project's inivestments,
including physical contingencies, is estimated at 27 percent; the port
component would yield 29 percent and the fisheries component 24 percent.
Sensitivity tests reveal that if fish production reach only about 45 percent
of the projected targets, or the costs of the fisheries component were 120
percent higher, or that of the port facilities 230 percent higher, the
project would still yield an overall economic rate of return of about 10
percent. The project's economic rates of return can be considered conserva-
tive as no allowances have been made for future fish price dlevelopmients,



- 21 -
although, according to OECD reports, fish prices will most likely increase
considerably faster than general inflation.
65.        The project faces three major risks.  The first is the uncertainty
of attracting competent and experienced contractors at a reasonable cost
because of the isolation, the difficult terrain and the general low level of
development of the project area. Project costs have, however, been calculated
in the light of most recent experience with similar civil works now underway
in PDRY. To further confirm the estimates and encourage potential bidders at
an early date, a firm of consulting engineers have been appointed to prepare
detailed designs and tender documents. Financing arrangements for these
consulting services have been made by an advance from the PPF (para. 36).
66.        The second risk concerns the operation of the completed fisheries
facilities. Inadequate domestic technical. and managerial experience could
endanger the economic utilization of the project's investments.  Provision
has therefore been made for the operation of these facilities by a team of
expatriate experts under a management agreement for an initial period of three
years at the end of which local staff, trained in the meantime, would assume
responsibility (para. 53).
67.        The third major risk that could affect the success of the project
would be a threat to the fish resources in the project area. While these
resources presently are plentiful, the project area faces a potential threat
if the number of foreign industrial trawlers operating off the coast is
further increased and if these vessels are not prevented from entering the
three-mile zone reserved for traditional fishermen.  The Government would
have to exercise restraint in issuing additional fishing licenses and police
more closely the industrial fishing vessels which frequently intrude into the
in-shore fishing grounds. The Government recognizes this problem and has
undertaken to closely monitor and enforce observance of the three-mile limit.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Demo-
cratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, the draft Special Action Credit
Agreement bet:ween the Association as Administrator and the  Government, and
the Recommenlation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
69.        Features of special interest in the Development Credit Agreement
are listed in Section III of Annex III. The following are additional condi-
tions of effectiveness: (i) the signing of co-financing agreement between
the Borrower and external cofinancier for an amount of about $16 million
(Reci-tal C and Section 6.01(b), Development Credit Agreement); and (ii) the
establishment of the Project Implementation Unit, the appointment of the
project manager and the project co-r,anager (Section 6.01(a), Development
Credit Agreement).



- 22 -
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and that the proposed Special Action
Credit would be in conformity with the agreement between the Association, the
EEC and its member states dated May 2, 1978.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit and the proposed EEC Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 30, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                         ANNEXi1
page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
TYEKE PDR --SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (A2iJUSTED AVERAGES
LANID AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                YMNDR- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  a
TOTAL             338.1                                                      SAME        SAME      NEXT SIGHER
AGRICULTURAL        1.1  Mf OST RECENT                                    GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION Ic   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       ..~      260.3      320.0           1438.5       182.9       432.3,
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       299.0        463.0     328.0            816.7        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MED-YEAR
(HILLIONS)                           1.1          1.5       1.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) ...                       33.3             45.8        15.0         24.2
POPUtATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                          3.0          4.0        5.0             23.2       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. 1CM. M2RICULTURAL LAND        ..       1364.0    1545.0             112.4      254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             ..         39.8      47.3              46.0       43.6         44.9
15-64 YR$.               .                        55.6      47.6              50.6       53.3         52.8
65 YES. AND ABOVE                      .           4.6        5.1              3.3         2.9         3.0
POPULATTON GRONTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 ..          3.4        2.7              2.9         2.4         2.7
URBAN                                 ...                      .5.0                      4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       50.8         50.2       49.6             45.0       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       30.7         24.4       20.6             13.7        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.5        3.5              3.4         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PL.AAN1ING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..
USERS (PERCENT OP MARR.IED WOME)    ...                        .14.7                     14.6        14.2'
FOOD AND-NUTITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CALPITA (1970-LOG)             103.1        100.0      101.0            107.1       96.4        104.3
PER CAPtTA SUPPLY OP
CALOREES (PERCENT OP
REqUIREMENTS)                     84.0         84.0      84.0              99.2       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            56.3         56.0       57.0             63.4       50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           .          37.0 j/b     .              16.4       13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         7...                    ..5..
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARSg)    37.2          42.3       44.8             53.7        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSABO).                 .       40.0             77.7      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
PO?ULATION)
tOTAL                                 ..         57.0         ..59.1                    26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 ..         88.0        ..85.9                     63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 ..         43.0        ..38.0                      14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO LXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ...                      .64.3                     16.1        37.5
URBAN                                 ...                     .94.5                     65.Si        69.5
RURAL,                                 ...                    .              27.7         3.4,       25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN.                       32380.0   10750.0            4271.6    13432.;'      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERsam           ....                    .            2077.4      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HtOSPITAL BED
MOTAL                                 .        1980.0      860.0            580.2     1157.6i       786.5
URBAN                                 ...                      .310.0                   183.3       278.4
RURAL                                 .             .         ...                     1348.11      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              .            .         .              22.0        19.15        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ...                      .5.4                       5.2
URBAN                                 4...                    ..8
RUrRAL                                .             .         ..                          5.3
AVEHLAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM4
TOTAL                                 .             .         .
URBAN                                 ...                      .1.8                       1.82.
RURAL                                 .             .         .
ACCESS Tro ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS;
TOTAL                                 ..22.0 /i                              40.3        25.9         28.3
URBAN                                  .,                      .
RURAL                                 .             .        1.6 /i          12.2          .          10.'3



- 24-                                      ANNEX I
page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
YEMEN PDR                                                 /a
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb. ESTIMATE Lb     REGION Lc   GROUP Id    GROUP le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 13.0        61.0       78.0            80.8        62.9        75.8
FEMALE                5.0        24.0       48.0            61.8       45.9         67.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  5.0         10.0      19.0            23.6        14.4        17.7
FEIMALE               2.0         4.0        8.0            18.2        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  5.0          3.0       2.0             6.7        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           29.0         31.0      30.0            31.5        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                         21.0         20.0      23.0            22.3        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..          ..      27.1 /1         50.1        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         9.0          7.0       6.7            14.5         3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THDUSAND
POPULATION                        52.0          ..      104.0 /k        125.8        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         16.0      18.0            34.5         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          1.0        ..            17.4         6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          2.4        ..              1.6        1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      300.0        310.0     416.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   4.2          4.8       5.0             9.3        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             71.0         62.0      42.9            42.0        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.5         17.6       ...
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               28.2         27.4      26.6            26.4        39.8        37.8
MALE                                 53.4        51.5      49.8            46.6        53.3        50.3
FEMALE                               2.3          2.7       2.7             5.3        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               ..          1.6       2.0              1.9        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGikST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         ..         ..              ..        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..        ..               ..       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCEYT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         ..         ..              ..         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..        ..               ..       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..              ..        88.5       155.9
RURAL                               ..           ..     140.0           142.0        71.9        97.9
ESrIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEI. (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      90.0           236.1       100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..           ..      75.0            144.7       42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVE;L I PERCENT)
URBAN                                *-          ..      15.0            21.5        46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..           ..      20.0            37.4        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adju.std Sroup averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric mears, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availabilLty of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1'70, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;  /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income
(j281-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  Estimated prtductive agricultural land;   /&  Under revision;
h  A-. 1964-66;  /i  Z population;   Li  ages 10+-;  /k  1971.
September, 1978



- 25 -                                          ANNEK I
page Sflf 5
IgFiNITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
'ku ho 04) otad Stoup eresfor eah indiat.r are populetisa-vslghted geometric meas, eacluding the metrow  value.. of the tdisesor and Lho  ua
populated country in each group. Coverage of counatries among the tMWicatore d"epeds on availability of data an insetmcwiters. las to lack of data,
fr,pae %gszrCapital S-rplus 011 Export..erand indiostors of acces  to water and secret. disposal,1  housing. income distribution and povrty ac.
'irpir popncv-ueoghted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
IbbID ARiA (thousand sq. kmt)                                                            Population Per hospital bed - total., urban, end rural - Population (total,
Ttl- Total  -uf-r  ares comprising tend area and Inland Waters,                        urban, and rural) divided by theIr respec-tiws  numet of hosPItal beds
AL,iculturs!l - Moat recast ostimats of agriculturel area uaed tasporarlly                 available ir public end private general and specielixed boepita1 and re-
or per-arn-ly for crops, pastures, market end kitchen gerdens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hoepitals are establiehments permanently staffed by
lie failoc.                                                                             at least none physician.  fEtablieshents providing principally custodial
care est not included. Rurel lse-pitals. however, include health and medi-
IMFP PuRCAITA (Ub)) -- GMP per capita estimates at curren.t market prices,                  cal centers sot permansntly staffed by a physiciant (but by a medical as-
culculted by same c.onveciro method as World lank Arles (1975-77 basis);                sistant. nurse, midw-ife. etc.) swhich offer in-patient ar:comdation and
19hi. 1970. and 1977 data,                                                              provide e limited renge of medical facilitim..
Admissions ner haspital had - Isetal nmbSer of admissions to or diachtarge.
MEtiY CONfSilfIiONf PER CAPITA - Annal cons umption of  smeertial anergy                    from  hospitale divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, naturat gas and hydro-, nuclear and gn-
th-roc  ol1ctricity) to hilosra.. of coal Isquivaleor par ..pit..                   HOUSINGfe
Avsraae sloe of household (persons sen household) - total, urban, n.           ua 
vP:AI5ar  ITAL STATISTICS                                                          A houeshold consista of a group of Individuals who share livying  quartrrr
Totk.     plt lonl_dczsr(millios- As  fJl  1; if act available.                           sod their main  esole.  A hoarderor,riodg.mrtmey.-ormay nt he Included in
avrrur%T  oe rd-yer sutlxaes.; 1960. 197    n  1977 dta                           rta. ho..ahold for ota.tIsnca    Purpse.  Ittetialy dfinitions of houoo-
Urban poplation  (prcent of total) - gatie of urban to total popule-                 hold vary.
rit.; diffaroor defioitiouo  of urban areas may affect comparability                  Averaea  numbe. of nr-on  per coome - total, urban.sd ral-Ayrerge our-
otdata aca  co...ntries,                                                                bar of parsons per room  in all, urban, and rural occu.Pied reetoa
doouio desity                                                                       dwellinsg, respectively.  Dwellings escLude nos-permeen-t  tructunes urd
Po kIc..!   - Mid-year popolatLIon per square kilomeer-  (100 hectarse)             unoccupied parts.
ofruo   terr.                                                                      Access to electricity fpercent of duslliamo) - total. urban. and rural -
P_r_.  bus. aricuLuro.n   - Computed  s above for agricultural land                      Con..eotionel dtellinge ut1th elsctricity  .0n living quarters as peroentuno
cclv.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or total, urbas, cod rural Owallings  easpsrti-ly.
rsrb9o,oA,9sPs9o. S!!SThi ( -Children (b-li years), workisg-age
(15-hi yearuf, and retired (65 years and over) as percentgage  of mid-              EDUCATION
tea  Population.                                                                     Adluetsd ennilmsot ratios
F"    tq_Ljt  Kj                  tt          andL urban - Compound anruel              Prtar.chool - total1* and (male - Total and fmeale enrOllment of all afen
cr-th  atote  of total and urban mid-year populationa fo,r 1950-hi,                     et the primary level as percamtages of respectivelyf primary erholi-age
19s1-70, cod 1974-75.                                                                   populations, normally includes children aeSd 6-11 years but adjustod for
Crude bu,th rain (prtho-osndl - ktaaul1 ltve births per thousand of                       different iength. of primacy education; for coutcriec  itth    ura  ed.-
rId-y-pr   prpulutivn; ten-year arlisthetir everagas coding in 1960 and                 cation enrullmenot may emceed 100 percent since some pupils arc boloc or
1(7O anod ite-eraeseending It 1975 for most recent estimate.                            ahuce the offirial school  gs..
Cru1de dec11L .st,,y   tbcceard)  - kanousI deaths per thousand of nid-                 Rs-ondarL_achool_- total, and fsinla - Computed as shove; second aryrduc-
-ear populatior; iso-year arithme.tic averaaes ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires et 1east four yasre of approved primary instruction; pro-
u-d fiyv-pru.r uvorogo ending to 1975 for most rares.t estimate.                        videe gansa  voca ...tional, or  maCbar tra;.ning inatructiona for Pupilo
-rPs rRoduotion rota - Adosrge nunher of daughtsra a .ocean, wIll boar                 usually of 12 to 17 yeses  foP ag; ....n.aspondes     cussare gonono lly
lcitr normal- reproduorivo period if she eaperiec-   prese.nt age-                      excluded,
ytfcfortulity rstx; u...allp fioc-pear awsrsges ending in 1960.                  Voca.tional .orollment (percen.t of aggoadarr,j - Vocational institutions ir-
1970, end 1975.                                                                         dlude terhoical, industrial, or other programs  which oparste independ-ntl
.ag4,1   P noioo __ conntor .. ...n.oI (thousan.ds) - Annual number of                    orso d.paroerta of sscondmry imatitutiuns.
acceptoro of birth-control drvtees under Auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - Primary,,,l   eetedar   - Total studentsenoldi
pungpro,gre.                                                                       poimery andl aoondar.     evl"y              numer- of tsa-hern in tie rorre-
K47Aiy..piA9p4yL.~ua)r~(ponyp~~efwtiad utonso) - Perosutnar cf              sponding lavele.
turne:d wo-   cf child-baotitg age (25-40 yesre) who uae birth-oconro1              _Adult itetrj., rate (parn..nt) - Litterate edulis (able to read eod orir) 0
dvcoo to oil married t-nen Jo naee  age group,                                          psrosntage of total adult population alged 15 years aod ove.t
FOCVMDhifl NRITION                                                                     CONSUIMPTIONI
lodro o~f foodprductIon norc.pit. (19270-01   - Index number of yet                    fas.etenaecar.sJPerbund coultion) - Iaasng-r cars vomfri-e .OtOcrt
-apine ensou  production of ell food -omeodities.                                     seating lees than eight persons: excludes moulanres, h.arees and silitory
Pr, zopi~ nupply of oalorles(p rcentof renuimeats)  - Computed from            ,ehiclex.
-serfv oqo-lceIt of net food nuppliex avihlebl  in contry Par capita                 Radio rece Ien-e thbou..ad nopalatioc) - All types of r...alverx  for radio
pot duo,  Ao-tlahi  nepplira comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts togeneral public per thousand of population; excludes unlicrnsed
coporo-,  od chngoxis utecb.  Het -opplias eaclude animal fa,seed s .d,         rece ivers in countries and in years when nsagistratirn of radio sets was in
qocotesd it too,l pouce...ilg, cod 1basso in distribution,  cc-                effort; datefor recent years may not be cparable since most o-untries
t,lrnuort   nero timeted by FAO based oci physiological needs for our-            abolished licensing.
oc tctlnIrn and sc-lth co   -doii  nironmental  temperature, body                 rV rteer   r  _(per thousand  ponulgis,pj-Treivsfobrauatogsi
f       Hiei,  a  and ass dintrhurt.oo  of population, and sl11wing 10 per-           pablic yen thousand Population; secludes unlicense.d TV rers.ivorn in  on
oro  tt -ane at bo_arhold le,el.                                                     tries and in yesrs when registration of TV ease was in effect.
Cc_ _CAkovooUpply of iRreul  grt         erdp   - ProteIn content of yer                fev2spae  ciclton ape  thousand muatigD   - Sh-tows   vc ...on Stir-oI-
coPito tot nopply of Iood pen dsy.  Net .upply of food is defined asino   of "daily general interestnesar   defined as a periodicu1 yobli-
vivo    iquice--cc  fec.1   all .co rires sateblished by URSDA provide for          ratios devted Prisarily to ean-rdieg general Iswe.  It le cooidor-dt
a  ioi- o  11 ul c... -i hI6 grams of totL.  protein per day and 20 grace.             he "daily" if it appesro at least four times a weash.
of untIn  a-d pulta prnei,t, of uhich 10 irese should be animol protein.             CieaseaYttaao  amEgi~,L.i   - Based on thr noher of oickb,to
Tt,cor otuodurdo  -r  lover than those of 75 gireas of total protein and                aold duciog the year, inclodieg admissions to trite-In cinast sod nh
I) gr.na oonine IProteis n   so aveyrage for the world, proposee by                     unit..
PAOP in the ThIrd Wilrd Purd Suroy.y
~~ from  animal and ~~~~~~~~~tolee1-  - ProteIn soyply of food             DWLOYIXR
donied Pom siscl  endpoiss ingesm  perday.tonl lab-  fr-(rh~-oaads-  tc-moipative pereonas, including croci
ChIlAgaa ih)  aoilir  rco (er  hruaad) -  nnul deth  pe  ruus-      for-o  and on...ploynd her  -lcdisg hbsaesel,es, studests, etc.  D.fIn,-
und It  oge .r.p -l yeea-, to children in this  ge group.                                tion. to various countries ore not comparable.
jl~~~~~~~~~IH                                                      Fow~~~~~~~~~eals   parcr i.St   - Feal  labor forca as percentage rf total labor ioro-
niAtli                                                            4grioulture_(percent)~~~~~~ - tehor force In farming, forestry, hunting sod fcshivg
LM~ ernecroc~or bird_(yacr    A-vrago n-bso of years of  ire                       as percentage of total ishor force.
reann   t birth; usually fioe-year averages ending In 1964, 1970,               Industry (oecuent) - tLeho  Por-e is mixing, c-ontruction, eanuf-ctucng u-d
urd 1075.                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~etlects iriy, cater and gee os percemtam of total labor forro.
Th-ut tcIetl   ra~te-(ys,  thuad)  - h n..sI deaths of Infants under                    ti        -P t                              _!tfRL. - 'tonl,mae  ud
yo-pu  ci sn. Po- th--sntd Ifvo hiehto.                                               'enele lubry  force an p.rr-trges of their reepective popoletloot
ho cmvOr: one ouiokperctr.ofupulstonf -_otsl,,,u,yyan,_ed rural -           (be- are  TiltI ud usred p-nninipsnios, t ene  refictir fcese
titbon of p-oyle  Ittorl, ocban, snd rural) mith reesoneble access to            ~        trocore of the Popolocior, and long time treed.
uf  curer supply olnolodra  r.ei.  so4 rfane uatens or notreated but                fo-noic dpet2adeoyvio-Rtrfppuaotrdr1sdOSnd'c
"Icctoi,a     nr   ouh us lith In -prttcted horeboles, springs,                 th ;lbor  oncin age fgo.,p of lb-ho pest.
co    olay cel)s   eretgxof their respective populations.
ftunorbo-acnc   public tourt.is   on stanuPoat located nout mote                    NfCPf[E kIOTLIhiUT(LNg
rhuc  OtJ  orer  loonu bone sy be  onaiersdes king within lea-         Peret au of i             .isr .in .r lboth in cost and bind) r       byve    yrlinnt,
torrulo ccoonv C    ha house.  In rura  crs    subeacees ...uId                   pecn,r rt20 yer-ncet   poorest 20 percnt, cod po...ntr 40 pe-cct
ipy'ottho hon.    i  or...   -.enbc  ofit    ohl  do rt baoto .                       houbls
oe dalioprcp-rclonoc   purr tci the day in fetching tie fanily's
-,crted0                                                                          OPT SME R.P
oareta iopotul   terccntof ounuetionl   total,urbaon  &I        Estt.mated ahnsoure ovrtyIne            level ((,ecji)-   ra   o   ua 
o   f,   P p.vPbo (itoL1, urhan, aod rural) aersad byonrn                      hnln--crr   ceelr                 sta  irtom l§_evel hetc uhirct. An ottitO
I  yi   uy  rtarlgen oP their resyectire populsnioss.  txcrete                     =tutnitionnvly  adequa.te diet Plu      etal no-fo  rqiexet   itn
Ia_oJ-lde the col1ertlos and dispos...  wi th or without                    off.ndablo.
f i ot _rtjo  endolnle     nsaltior.                                                                                                                         - .     d,.
isaienvry irorl li  ht incom   leve  lt- tier ocr-rhOld
otoIj, _pty    cr-)oooltdiided by tomb. onc  pr-t iclrg                            ot,tcaita .,pers onlite of- ,        trit    ontr'y.
cr -qoltfood fP.0 o redlo-l ochol atustr fylvl.fomtopplin   etAyrrncm lsl(eco)-ohoodcra
jiat    urct-   £e-o.    PPAL- drva  o   ividad by roothec ofProto   oouioohrsderl   h   r  tithe   "nojLoo Idr'<
Ia-tO  op9 cu ud  ortlc uc-du- c-o-e, pr-ctj-1 -totas, utd                                rela-tIve  ppoo"wltibnve-b vs d g reater.              t.      b--
f,.troraoadsca  truItOo
it ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~cnacOsyt   rdPvrtrtDprro



-26 -                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1977
US$ mln    %
GNP at market prices                       580      100
Gross Domestic Investment                  200       34
Gross National Savings                      66       11
Exports of goods & NFS                      59       10      Annual Rate of Growth (%)
Imports of goods & NFS                     380       66       (constant  prices)
1970-73        1974-77
GDP at factor cost                         350      100           2               7
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries                 71       20           6               4
Industry 2/                             42       12          2                2
Trade, Transport, Finance              139       40          -6               7
Other Services                          98       28           4               5
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                             Prov. Actual
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)              1974/752!  1975./  1976    1977          1978
Total receipts 4/                       23.1       17.0    32.1    43.4         50.9
Current expenditures                    27.6       25.6    39.2    47.4         58.4
Current deficit                         -4.5       -8.6    -7.1    -4.0         -7.5
Development expenditures                20.7       19.1    39.2    56.9         60.0
Overall deficit                        -25.2      -27.7   -46.3   -60.9        -67.5
Borrowing, from Banking System          11.4       10.1    15.6    18.5         22.2
Other Assets and Accounts 5/           -13.0       12.5    --2.0    -1.4
External Financing                      28.8        5.1    32.7    43.8         42.3
MONEY AND CREDIT                         1974        1975    1976    1977    1978
(million Y.D. ,Outstanding,end Period)
Money and quasi-money                    55          67       98      140     168
Bank credit to Governmernt               24          37       62       72      87
Bank credit to non-Gov't Sector 6/    19             24       31       49      59
1/  Provisional.
2/ Includes petroleum refining.
3/  The fiscal year was April 1-March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became April 1-
December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
4/  Includes current & development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
5/  Includes the Balance of the Development Fund.
6/  Includes public sector agencies.



ANNEX I
- 27-                            page 5 of 5
Prov.
Est.
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)         1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
Exports/l                                     8       8       26       25       19
Imports/1                                 -190    -179    -268    -364    -359
Trade Deficit                             -182    -171    -242    -339    -340
Non-factor Services, net                     22       17      24       18       17
Factor Services, net                        48       59      122      187      266
Workers' Remittances                    (41)    (56)   (115)   (180)   (258)
Investment income                        (7)      (3)      (7)      (7)      (8)
Current Account Deficit                   -112       -95      -96   -134       -57
Official Transfers                            1       10       46      55       36
Official M & LT Capital,net                  60       47       72      70       91
Gross Disbursements                     (60)      (48)    (74)   (71)    (92)
Repayments                               (-)      (-1)    (-2)   (-1)    (-1)
Miscellaneous Capital (lnl. errors
& omissions)                             43        25        5      28      18
Change in Qfficial Reserves(- - increase) 8            13     -27    -19       -88
Memo [tem:
Gross Official Reserves (end year)           68       55       82    101       189
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                                        Average 1976-77
US$ Million Percent
Fish & Fish Products                                     14          54
Cotton                                                    6          23
Others                                                    6          23
26        100
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1978)
US$ Million
External. Public Debt OutsLandiiig                      753
Of which:  Disbursed                                 311
Debt Service Payments in 1978                             2
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of Goods                   0.6  Percent
and Services, Including Remittances)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to December 1971              As of ])ecember 1971       As of February 1973
US$ 1.00   YD 0.42                  US$ 1.00 = YD 0.38         US$ 1.00 = 0.34
YD 1.00  1US$ 2.40                  YD 1.00 = US$ 2.61         YD 1.00   US$ 2.90
/1 Net of re-exports.
May 18, 1979



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of April 30, 1979)
---------US$ Million-------
Credit                                                 Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year   Borrower            Purpose            IDA              Undisbursed
Credit 240 YDR fully disbursed                         1.6                   -
370-YDR  1973    PDRY            Fisheries /1          5.1                  0.3
494-YDR  1975    PDRY            Education I           5.4                  3.0
560-YDR  1975    PDRY            Highways II /2       15.5                  4.2
584-YDR  1976    PDRY            Aden Port. Rehab.   3.2                    1.2
615-YDR  1976    PDRY            Wadi Hadramawt        7.0                  4.0
768-YDR  1978    PDRY           Wadi Tiiban /3         5.2                  5.2
829-YDR  1978    PDRY            Power /4              5.0                  5.0
S21-YDR  1978    PDRY            Water Supply Eng.
Credit               1.2                  1.1
865-YDR  1978    PDRY            Education II /5       4.0                  4.0
Total                                           53.2                  28.0
of which has been repaid                          -                     -
Total now held by IDA                           53.2
Total undisbursed                                                     28.0
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of April 30, 1979)
PDRY is not a member of IE'C.
/1   Including Supplementary Credit of $1.6 million of February 6, 1975.
/2   Including $0.6 million of Credit S12-YDR of November 17, 1972 refinanced
under Credit 560-YDR.
/3   Credit was declared effective on ApriL 25, 1979.
/4   Approved June 13, 1978:  Credit: not yet effective.
/5   Approved December 14, 1978:  Credit not yet effective.
NOTE:  Exchange adjustment not included.



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 370-YDR - Fisheries Project: US$3.5 Million Credit of April 12, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; and $1.6 Million Supplementary Credit of
February 6, 1975; Effectiveness Date:  April 29, 1975; Clos:ing Date:  August
31, 1980.
The project is now nearing completion. The major component, the
fish cold store and freezing facility at Mukalla became operational, after
a two-year delay, in June 1978. The delay was primarily due to the difficul-
ties encountered in finding a suitable project manager and cost overruns
requiring supplemnental financing, which was approved by the Association in
January 1975. As a result, the two experts, a cold store manager and a
refrigeration engineer financed under the credit to assist in the operation
of the facility, were appointed late. Their contract will expire in May 1980.
The smaller cold store at Shihr is ready and awaiting power connection to
commence operations. Of the 100 fishing vessels financed under the credit, 85
have been completed in local boatyards, and the remaining are expected to be
delivered around December 1979.
Cr. No. 494-YDR - Education Project: US$5.4 Million of July 12, 1974;
Effectiveness Date:  February 5, 1975; Closing Date:  September 30, 1979.
This credit will assist the Government in making qualitative improve-
ments in the educational system and meet priority manpower needs. Implementa-
tiLo  is proceedirig satisfactorily but is about 18 months behind appraisal
estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit effective and in
the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO arnd the consultant architects and
(ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting design
completion. Civil works on the construction of new premises, and extension
and rehabilitation of the existing schools are expected to be completed
by September 1979 in time for the start of the academic year 1979/80.
Deliveries of furniture and equipment are about half completed with the
balance expected by July 1979.  The fellowship program is proceeding well
except that three candidates for agricultural training have, yet to be found.
I/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particu:Lar to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Cr. No. 560-YDR - Second Highway Project: US$15.5 Million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project is financed jointly with the Kuwvait Fund for Arab Eco-
nomic Development. Since international competitive bidding for the construc-
tion element of the project produced no responsive bids, arrangements were
made for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit which
is assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Because of the remoteness of the project
area and the concomitant logistic problems, the severe shortage of domestic
skilled manpower and the lower than expected output from construction equip-
mernt due to particularly harsh construction conditions, implementation of
the civil works is about 2 years behind the appraisal estimate. However,
considering these difficulties, construction of the road (358 km) started in
March 1976 is making satisfactory progress and is approximately 55 percent
complete. Likewise, total project cost is now estimated to be about 20 per-
cent over the appraisal estimate as a result of the extra quantities of rock
that had to be excavated, the additional drainage and protective works needed
because of floods and the general increase in the price of construction equip-
merit and materials. Construction and road maintenance equipment have been
procured.  Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the economic studies
and the final engineering of the Naqabah-Beihan road.  Consultants (Sotechni-
Italy) have completed the technical assistance component and the overseas
training program is underway with six Yemeni engineers having completed 9-12
months training courses (4 in the IJK and 2 in West Germany). Candidates
remain to be n,ominated for the remaining four fellowships prograrmnmed.
Cr. No. 584-YDR - Aden Port Rehabilitation Project:  US$3.2 Million Credit
of September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date:  February 3, 1976: Closing Date:
September 30, 1979.
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development will assist thie I'DRY Government in rehabilitating
the port of Aden to reattract traffic: passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The Project provides for (a) floating equipment; (b) cargo-handling equipment;
(c) workshop equipmnent, spares and st:ocks; (d) diving team equipment; (e)
navigation, mooring and communications equipment; and (f) technical assis-
tance. All e(quipment except some navigational items have been received and
most are already in use. A cost accountant and a marine engineer have been
appointed.
Cr. No. 615-YDR - Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project:  US$7.0 Million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  September 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 81C0
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through rhe adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, construc-
tion of feeder roads and extension services.  It also includes provision of



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
a date packaging plant and a rural water supply component. The start of
project implementation was delayed because of the difficulties encountered in
locating suitable expatriate candidates for the position of project manager,
irrigation engineer and an extensionist. The complet:Lon of the project is,
therefore, not expected until June 1981, about two years behind the appraisal
estimate.  The Project Manager and the Irrigation Engineer have been appointed
and are now on site. A candidate for the post1 of extensionist has been
identified and is in the process of being appointed. Orders for agricultural
machinery have been placed and tender documents are being prepared for agri-
cultural supplies.
Cr. No. 768-YDR - Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project: US$5.2 Million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25. 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project seeks to increase water use efficiency and raise agri-
cultural production and farm income in Wadi Tuban through the use of modern
inputs and improved practices. It provides for credit to cooperatives and
state farms, construction of feeder roads, a village water supply scheme and
improved irrigation system; a water management study; an agricultural policies
study; and technical assistance and training.  The Government, with assistance
from FAO has recruited the irrigationi engineer and the agronomist both of who
are now in the field. The extension expert is in the process of being appointed
and a candidate for the position of farm management specialist identified.
Search for the remaining expatriate position of farm machinery specialist is
continuing actively.  The Government has substantially completed negotiations
with the Arab Fund which is cofinancing this project for an amount of $6.1
million. In order to prevent further delays in the start of implementation of
the project, and hence avoid possible cost overruns, and since the implementa-
tion of all the project components need not be started concurrently with those
financed by 'IDA, the Association after receiving an undertaking from the
Government that the cofinancing arrangements would be finalized by December
31, 1979, waived the signing of the cofinancing loan agreement as a condition
of effectiveness and consequently the credit became effective on April 25,
1979.
Cr. No. 829-YDR - Wadi Hiadramout Power ProjLect:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 29, 1979; CLosing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project would provide an impetus to agricultural development
in Wadi Hadramout by electrifying all irrigation water pumping in the Wadi
through the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant arLd the construction
of about 1,000 km of related transm:Lssion and distri'bution networks. Insti--
tution-building objectives would be achieved through techrLical assistance
comprising training abroad of PCEP'S personnel, and consultants' services
for a tariff study, and a power development study. Soil testing of the
project site has been completed and preparation of detailed engineering and
tender document preparation are now in progress.  The Credit is not yet
effective pending finalization of the cofinancing arrangement.



- 32 -                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Cr. No. S21-YDR - Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project:
US$1.2 Million Credit of July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of studies to assist the Government in the
preparation of water supply master plans for the two largest urban agglomera-
tions, Aden and Mukalla; the assessment of potential water resources in
other populated areas of the country; and the elaboration of the first con-
struction phase of projects for the improvement and expansion of water supply
services in the areas under consideration.  Technical assistance comprises
the formulation of appropriate administrative structures and financial poli-
cies for the national water authority and a tariff study.  The Government has
awarded the contract for the engineering studies to SOGREAH. The feasibility
study was started in early December 1978 and the final report is expected to
be ready later in 1979.
Cr. No. 865-YDR - Education II Project: US$4.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 22, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The project will assist the Governrment in establishing three voca-
tional training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of a number of
additional VTCs to be constructed in other parts of the country to train
urgently needed skilled and semi-skilled workers.  The project consists of
construction of an industrial, an agricultural and a cominercial training
center, and the procurement of furniture and equipment.  Arrangements for
fellowships to be financed from bilateral funds have been completed.  Very
good progress is being made in the preparation of final drawings for the
training centers and tender documents and detailed lists of furniture and
equipment have already been prepared by the Government and approved by the
Association. The Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
- 33 -                          Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:  Three years (July 1975-
August 1978)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                 Government and consultants
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:               February 1973
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:          February 1975
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                October 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                    May 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 October 1979
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) the signing of co-financing agreement (para. 50); and
(b)  the establishment of the Project Implementation Unit, and the
appointment of the project manager and the project co-manager
(para. 51).
2. Measures to be undertaken by the Government include:
(a)  selection and sending abroad of candidates for training during
the second year of project implementation (para. 46);
(b)  establishment of Project Coordination Committee (para. 52);
(c)  undertaking of a national nutrition study (para. 47);
(d)  appointment of a fisheries advisor by January 1, 1982 (para. 53);
(e)  conclusion of a management agreement by January 1, 1984 for
operating the fisheries facilities during an initial three
year period (para. 53);
(f)  appointment of three experts by June 30, 198C to assist the
Ministry of Fish Wealth (MFW) in operation and management of its
industrial fishing ileet andl the chain of cold stores, and in
developing export markets (para. 46);



ANNEX III
- 34 -                            Page 2 of 2
(g)  appointment of a port manager and a harbor master six months before
the port becomes operational (para. 54); and
(h) organization of a credit scheme by the MFW for the provision of
fishing vessels, outboard engines and fishing gear to fisheries
cooperatives (para. 55).



IBRD 12776R.
44I            4Y             4e              4               I 4 `s-                                                            _          52-         *  IRAQ'         MARCH 1979
Peoples Democratic Republic ofYemen                                                                                       _                                                     IRAN
FISHERIES PROJECT I                                                                                        -                                    46w
LOCATION                                                                                                                      OMAN    EGOPT                         C
F5sherAs ProjOCt II areas                ****.**-*                        /                                       SALDI ARABIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUD-ARBI
FslhecsProject shoreas                       S A U D I    A R A B I A                              _-                      --- -O-A
o  ProjRct itesC- shorefSciiANe'OMA
°  P olect stes -smoall facillties                                                                                                              - SUOAN'
r Deto ledareamapsofFisheriesProjectll:                                   /                                                           0 .                            PEOPOE5
IBRD 12777, 14053  r,00/ZR1 Shihce                                                                                                                       ce  .'oA1E O
-----------------                                                                        EMnNwA-b -na
.t  Fisheries portIond protected anchorage                          /                                                                                                       -    ,,,,,,,
*  Fisheries landing sites                                        /    '------                                                                      ETHIOPIA  -
A Boatyards                                                   /5                                                                                                OAI
V  IC plants                                                  /                                , ThobtfLId
Asphalted roads
O---------Other roads or tracks
O  Towns                                                  /       '                                                         r    7 _ '16
*  Nationa capital                  "                   /           ,                                                          I
-20DO0 Bthymetrc contours in meters     I                /ei
Cliffs or hills                    I             /
- i, The Governorates                  jZamak                                 ,
---  Gooernorate bo.oda res            I           /         \                                                          - -- '   AhetdI                                             f
_nteonotionAl bondries                                                                 a 
/ l hAbrci   1Markaz AHaw r---------ari
Hayna
6S!habwsah                                          Map5atr0
'Y E M E N    A R A B                                                                                V           QoSyi ' 
/  .-  !'  ayaptaah "  -. &       Am~~~~~~~~~wwesyi
0                          I r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
u/f                                                                                                00'O                                  Socotra Island~~~~~~~a 
12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                       at5'             a               a5S20*
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 10 W%ED  5m;v                                                               ASC                                     ~0
Ly:''DS'   ftS_t='M    < <1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)L






IBRD12777R
3nt30                   5000                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51300'                 52005-1.5-                                                                                                   MR, 7
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~             - '-<     Fresh fish in ice,resk  Water,ice, Wat irloiceicrepairi
FISHERIES  PROJECT  II1                                                                                                          ' enginesfor repair, etc. trucks, gear, etc
Propsed SIXTH GOVERNORATE
-16'30'  ProposedTraffic  Flows, Project Sites and  Elements                                                                  7r.rrewies,                                                                                                                                    16rd
- Sea reute traffic                       *& Fish receiving statiors
-= Periadic sea route traffic               U1 Insulated bones tor ice and tisth
-Road traffic                         17  Ice plants                                                        Tra--to----n
-.--  Periodic road traffic                                                                                                                                                             ruroow
Project rood upgrading                   0  Tanks far fuei and water                                         Dygosol
Project water supply or improvements    EaWokhosakhtoe
Existing trgbs,
---Poor quality                         A  Main radio stations
-----Almost impassible                                                                                                                  s    -
- River                                                                                     From rabut         Pront Nishtun
Wtrcourses, usually dry                                                            oihur           t?~btvlae 
~ZuoBRthymetric contour in meters                                                      Froze"n fish, fresh fish    Ice, fuel oiil                                                    '                             A   r  a   b   i  a   ns
V-VI The Governorates
-16W\                              ~~~~~~~~Governorate boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                           e  
---International boundaries                                                                                                                           /
Tabu      AFS4S
*     0        1,0     20       30       40       50      650      10       to
0             it           2              30            40            30
wiLrt                                                                                                                                    HA-VIAD.HREBS
Lyd, __1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -                                            flh,dowtof'
-45-30'                                                                                                                                                                     AUDI ARABIA                                      OMAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'4






IBRD 14053
'Po                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY '1979
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
FISHERIES PROJECT II
b   alow                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Nishtun  Port Facilities
Project area
IJ \<] |      Port buildings
Oil and water hydrants
s                                                                                                                                                                                  Roads and embankments
_____ *    ;   >30                                                                                        Elevation contours in meters
V   GENERAL CARGO   '    9         <           X                                                     B ,,,>er,  o---   Bathymetric contours in meters
SAUOI AtRABA  Z             t'OMT                                              YRAND
~~   ~~~  v  v = =* * w * ~~~~~~0                                                                     0     0    6  f0    8                :fXf0 r100
(              A-A   O7=~ /t t°  ; istu                                                                                                                                            0        tOO0    2  00     300      400 ;   _+    i
Arobiart   7                                                                                                                                         FEET~~~~~Ge.  fq
WIBOUI  SeaThiastag tos bot, o.tte.d hritt ottdtanirsotof eaettetcty 'o the saraaeAtc
tO th  readrs atthe rportit teeth i    attahed.  to gaarrtetiats tEPAJ 5fd th
htatderes  hawt Ot tdt   Pt O rt ttotttt onettttet o oto WYARC,Brttant,it
aftiets.oA   ltdttett  ttttettjt  ttttt   t  tt  ttrtoy    tett etd ,totttto
100  A           IO~~~~    acceptance clacch ttncrdnrtrt. ~       ~          ~          ~         NE
40C ~~~~~~~ -~~~~~   50~~~~~~  eaYN                                                                    LF



