CONF01RED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 932 YDR
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Fisheries Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Date August 10, 1979
f4


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 932 YDR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 10, 1979, between PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Asso-
ciation),,
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by the Special Action Credit Agreement (hereinafter
called the Special Action Credit Agreement) of even date herewith,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower a
special action credit (hereinafter called the Special Action
Credit) in an aggregate principal-amount equivalent to three
million dollars ($3,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions therein set forth. Said Special Action
Credit is granted by the Association in its capacity as the
Administrator of the Special Action Account established by the
Association with funds contributed by the Member States of the.
European Economic Community;
(C) the Borrower intends to secure under contracts or other
arrangements with other external sources of finance (hereinafter
called the Co-Financiers) loans or grants (hereinafter called,the
Co-Financiers' Loans or Grants) in an aggregate amount equivalent
to about sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein


﻿2 -
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MW" means the Ministry of Fish Wealth of the Borrower;
(b) "Project manager" means the Project manager to be
appointed under Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c) "Project implementation unit" means the Project imple-
6antation unit to be established under Section 3.02 (c) of this
Agreement;
(d) "Project area" means the eastern part of the Sixth
Governorate of the Borrower bordered by Ras Fartak in the west
and Oman in the east; and
(e) "Project preparation advance" means the Project prepa-
ration advance provided by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to two exchanges of letters dated November 15, 1977 and
December 7, 1977 and April 19, 1979 and May 1, 1979, respectively,
between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project preparation advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid service charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the *authorized amount of the Project
preparation advance shall be cancelled as of the same date and the
balance of the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (5)
shall be reallocated as of the same date to Category (4) of the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or such
later date as the Association shall establish.    The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1989, and ending April 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A through E
and F.2 of the Project through MFW and Part F.1 of the Project


﻿-4-
through its Ministry of Health, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to facilitate the implementation of
the Project and to ensure coordination of the activities of the
various Governmental entities involved in Project execution,
the Borrower shall: (a) appoint a Project manager and a Project
co-manager with such qualifications and experience and under such
terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association; (b) ensure that the Aden Port Authority of
the Borrower will provide said Project manager with all assistance
required for the implementation of Part A of the Project; such
assistance to include the assignment, not later than September
30, 1981 from said Authority of one of its personnel experienced
in port management to be attached to and work with the Project
Implementation Unit at Nishtun; (c) establishi within MFW, an
adequately staffed Project implementation unit to be headed
by said Project manager; such unit shall: (i) prepare the work
plans under the Project; (ii) coordinate, at the operational
level, all activities under the Project; and (iii) supervise
the execution of all physical works under the Project; atd (d)
establish a Project coordination committee to be headed by the
Deputy Minister of MW and composed of the Project manager and
representatives of MFW and other Ministries of the Borrower
involved in Project implementation. Said Committee shall be
entitled to issue such directives and introduce such operational
procedures as shall assist in the timely implementation of the
Project.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in supervising
the execution of all civil works under the Project, the Borrower
shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause MFW: (a) to appoint
not later than January 1, 1982 (or such other date as the Associ-
ation may agree), a fisheries adviser with such qualifications and
experience as shall be acceptable to the Borrower and the Associ-
ation; (b) to assign to said adviser the technical responsibility
of assisting the Project manager and the Project implementation


﻿II
unit in all fisheries aspects of the Project, including the
nrocurement of fisheries equipment, and of enabling the fisheries
cooperatives operating in the Project area to benefit from the
facilities established under the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause MFW, acting through
the Project implementation unit: (a) to evaluate the needs of
the fisheries cooperatives operating in the Project area for
equipment, namely, fishing vessels, outboard engines and fishing
gear, to be provided under Part D of the Project; and (b) based on
the above, to procure and distribute such equipment to such
cooperatives under loan agreements or other arrangements requiring
them, inter alia   to repay the equivalent of the purchase price
of vessels so distributed over a period of eight years and of
outboard engines and fishing gear so distributed over a period of
four years, all with interest at the rate of 8% per annum, or at
such other rate as the Borrower and the Association may agree
after reviewing the prevalent lending conditions in the Borrower's
territory.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) cause its Ministry of
Health to employ, for carrying out the national nutrition study
provided in Part F.1 of the Project, consultants whose qualifica-'
tions and experience and terms and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association; and (b) carry
out through MFW such other studies related to the Project under
Part F.2 of the Froject as the Borrower and the Association
shall agree.
Section 3.07. For the implementation of Part E (3) of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare and submit to the
Association, during the second year of Project implementation, a
training program of Yemeni personnel in specializations agreeable
to the Association; and (b) after reviewing the Association's
comments thereon, carry out such program and ensure its completion
before the start of operation of the facilities established under
the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-0L
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, a,ecifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association on a quarterly basis all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
progress of the Project, its cost, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MFW and the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Health to maintain records adequate to reflect


﻿-7-
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices their operations, resources and expenditures in respect.
of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause MFW and the Borrower's
Ministry of Health to have their respective Project accounts
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
scn as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, the reports of such audits by
said auditors, of such scop4 and hi such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning.said accounts and the
audits thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.02. In order to assist MFW in the initial three
years of operation of the facilities established under the
Project, the Borrower shall enable and cause MFW:
(a) to identify, through a management agency regarded by.
the Borrower and the Association as internationally reputed in
the field of fish processing and marketing, and not later than
June 30, 1983 (or such other date as the Borrower and the Associ-
ation may agree) a management team consisting, inter alia, of a
general manager, a fish processing specialist and a fish produc-
tU,on specialist, all with qualifications and experience acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association; and
(b) by January 1, 1984, or such other date as the Borrower
and the Association may agree (and in any event before the start
of operation of the fisheries facilities established under the
Project), to conclude with such agency an agreement satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association for the provision of the
services of said management team and for the operation and manage-
ment of the fisheries facilities under the Project.
Section 4.03. For the management and operation of the port
facilities to be established under Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (a) appoint to the Aden Port Authority of the
Borrower, not later than six months before the scheduled date for
operating such facilities (or such later date as may be agreed
with the Association), a port manager with adequate qualifications


﻿8-
and experience, and a harbor master to be in charge of control
and discipline of vessels using the port facilities established
under the Project and of enforcing the safety rules; (b) assign
to said port manager the responsibility for collecting the
charges due for the provision of port services and use of port
facilities; and (c) to provide said port manager and harbor
master with all such staff and facilities as shall be required
for the efficient performance of their acti 4"ts.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall enable and cause MFW: (a)
to employ, by June 30, 1980 (or such other date as the Bprrower
and the Association may agree) and with such qualifications and
experience and under such terms and conditions as shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association, the team of kperts
referred to in Part E (2) of the Project; and (b) lo introduce,
by the, same date, such administrative procedures as shall enable
it to fully benefit from the services of said experts at the
operational level.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Any of the agreements providing for the Co-Financiers'
Loans or Granxts shall have failed to become effective by April 30,
1980, or such other date as the Association may establish; pro-
vided, however, . that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that adequate funds for the Project are ava'ilable to
the Borrower on terms and conditions consistent with the obli-
gations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit or any
of the Co-Financiers' Loans or Grants shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated


﻿9
in" whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) The Special Action Credit or any such Loan
shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (      ade-
quate funds for the Project are available t    the
Borrower on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agree-
ment.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section .5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified *as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Project implementation unit has been established and
the Project manager and the Project co-manager have been appointed
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
and
(b) the   agreements providing    for the Co-Financiers'
Loans or Grants have been duly signed on behalf of the parties
thereto.
Section 6.02. The date December 11, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purpos-s of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall cease. and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twelve years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P. 0. Box 1193
Tawahi Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:                      Telex:
TAKHTEET                            289TAKHTEETAD
Aden
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿I
-11  -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their repreientatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
yer first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By // Abdalla S. Ashtal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /sf Attila Karaosmanoglu
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works under             1,400,000        63%
Part B of the Project
(2) Equipment under               2,000,000       100% of foreign
Part B of the                                 expenditures
Project
(3) Fishing vessels,                900,000        100% of foreign
engines and equipment                         expenditures
under Part D of the
Project
(4) Technical assistance          2,150,000       100% of foreign
and training                                  expenditures
(5) Project preparation             850,000       100%
advance
(6) Studies                         200,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(7) Unallocated                   2,500,000
TOTAL        10,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿PVt-
- 13 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been- calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $70,000 may be
made in respect of Category (4) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after April 15, 1979.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient-
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion 3f the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Port Facilities
The construction of a fisheries cum general cargo port at
Nishtun in the Project area. This Part includes:
1.   Construction of a breakwater of about 290 meters.
2.   Reclamation of an area of about 36,000 m2 for the
construction of shore facilities and the construction of
a rock-filled groyne of about 100 meters.
3.   Construction of quays of various dimensions.
4.   Construction of a small boats ramp, a repair yard to
be equipped with repair and maintenance equipment and
rk idential buildings for Project management.
5.   Provision of loading, handling and storage facilities
for general cargo.
Part B:   Fisheries Facilities
1.   Construction of a building for the receiving, prGcessing
and storage of fish and equipping such building with all necessary
facilities for administration, refrigeration, ice making and fish
collection and processing.
2.   Provision of transport equipment.
Part C:   Other Facilities
1.   Construction of a 19 km hard surfaced road from Tabut
to Nishtun.
2.   Supplying the port and fisheries facilities estab-
lished under the Project, through suitable means, with adequate
quantity of fresh water for purposes of human needs and ice
making.


﻿- 15 -
Part D:   Cooperatives Development
Providing the fisheries cooperatives operating in the
Project area with fishing equipment consisting of fishing vessels,
outboard engines and fishing gear.
Part E:   Technical Assistance
1.   The employment of the Project manager, the fisheries
adviser referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement and the
management team or agency referred to in Section 4.02 of this
Agreement
2.   Assistance to MFW, through a team of three experts in
the operation of its industrial fishing fleet and cold stores
and in the export of fish.
3.   The implementation of a training program with a view
to preparing an adequate number of Yemeni personnel for the
operation of the facilities provided under the Project.
Part F:   Studies
The carrying out'of:
1.   National nutritional survey.
2.   Such'other studies related to the Project as may be
agreed between the Borrower and the Assodiation
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿0
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other* expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modi-
fications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably


﻿-17-
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their ;qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the-
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 18 -
3. With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its exeution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first Application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendatlons for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any chan3e order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


