Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2632-PAN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRHE)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
November 26, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationi.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Balboa (B/. 1)
US$1   =  B/. I
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins.
The U.S. dollar (US$) is accepted as currency.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
km            =            kilometer
kW            =            kilowatt
MW            =            Megawatt = 1000 kW
kWh           =            kilowatt hour
GW            =            Gigawatt = 1 million kW
GWh           =            Gigawatt hour = 1 million kWh
kV            =            kilovolt
kVA           =            kilovolt - ampere
kVAr          =            kilovolt - ampere reactive
MVA           =            Megavolt-ampere = 1000 kVA
mile          =            1.609 km
square mile   =            2.590 km2
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APN            -       Autoridad Portuaria Nacional
(National Port Authority)
BLADEX         -       Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones
(Latin American Export Bank)
BNP            -       Banco Nacional de Panama
(National Bank of Panama)
C.T. MAIN      -       Chas. T. Main International Incorporated
CODEMIN        -       Corporacion Minera de Cerro Colorado
COFINA         -       Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation)
FyL            -       Compania Panamena de Fuerza y Luz
G&A            -       Gilbert and Associates, Incorporated
GDP            -       Gross Domestic Product
GNP            -       Gross National Product
IDAAN          -       Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales
(National Institute of Water and Sewerage)
IDB            -       Inter-American Development Bank
INTEL          -       Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
LIBOR          -       London Interbank Offer Rate
OPEC           -       Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PANCANAL       -       Panama Canal Company
UNDP           -       United Nations Development Programme
USAID          -       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Instituto de Recursos Hldraulicos y Electrificacion (IRHE)
Guarantor:        Republic of Panama
Amount:           US$23 million
Terms:            Payable in 17 years including 4 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 7.95 percent per annum.
Project
Description:   The project would consist of a program designed to rehabili-
tate and expand IRHE's subtransmission and distribution
systems in the 1980-83 period. It represents the least-cost
alternative to supplying new customers and rehabilitating
obsolete distribution and subtransmission facilities. The
project would include 38 specific subprojects which would
be executed during 1980-83 and the routine distribution
expansion required to connect new consumers in 1981-82. In
addition, the project would include technical services to
strengthen IRHE's planning and design of distribution and
subtransmission works. Specifically, the project would
consist of:
(i) Subtransmission (34.5 kV and 115 kV)
(a) Rehabilitation and construction of about 535 circuit
km of lines;
(b) installation of about 135 MVA of transformers in
existing substations and in new substations to be
constructed; and
(c)  installation of accessory subtransmission equipment.
(ii) Distribution (13.2 kV and lower voltages)
(a)  Construction of about 100 circuit km of lines
and 260 km of distribution networks;
(b) installation of about 3,300 distribution trans-
formers with a total capacity of about 100 MVA;
and
(c) installation of accessory distribution equipment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discklsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iii)   Consulting Services
(a)  Preparation of design and bidding documents for the
specific subprojects which would be implemented in
the first two years of the project.
(b)  study and implementation of a program to improve
IRHE's distribution expansion planning and purchase
of the computer software for this program; and
(c)  study of a method to determine and optimize system
reliability.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ Millions)
Local Foreign Total
Subtransmission (34.5 kV and 115 kV)
Lines                                   1.4    2.2      3.6
Substations                             1.6    2.4     4.0
Distribution (13.2 kV and lower voltages)
Panama City and Colon                   1.2    5.2     6.4
West Panama, Central Provinces
and Chiriqui                          2.4    5.2     7.6
Other distribution throughout the
country                              0.5    2.2      2.7
Engineering and Administration               2.1    0.2      2.3
Consulting Services                           -     0.2      0.2
Total Base Cost                         9.2   17.6    26.8
Contingencies
Physical contingencies                  0.8    1.8     2.6
Price contingencies                     1.8    3.6     5.4
Total Project Cost                          11.8   23.0    34.8
Risks:           The execution of the project does not involve any risks other
than those normally associated with construction of subtrans-
mission and distribution works.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
US$ Million                 %
IBRD                         23                    66
IRHE                         12                    34
Total                    35                    100
Disbursements:                     -- … US$ Millions- Bank Fiscal Year -------
1980           1981            1982            1983
Annual          2.7             8.0             8.7             3.6
Cimmulative     2.7            10.7            19.4           23.0
Rate of
Return:          18 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 2660a-PAN of November 19, 1979






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INSTITUTO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS Y ELECTRIFICACION (IRRE)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A FIFTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion (IRRE) with
the guarantee of the Republic of Panama for the equivalent of US$23 million
to help finance a Fifth Power Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including a four-year grace period, with interest at 7.95 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Panama's Development in the 1980's:  A Special
Economic Report" (2306-PAN) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
July 31, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Between 1955 and 1973 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at an
average annual rate of 7 percent, as the leading sectors--services, manu-
facturing, and construction--were stimulated by buoyancy in world trade,
by the emergence of Panama as a regional banking center, and by a strategy
of industrial import substitution. In contrast, the average annual growth
of GDP between 1973 and 1978 was less than 2 percent due mainly to the
collapse of an urban building boom after 1973, the sharp rise in petroleum
prices in 1974, the recession in world trade in 1974-75, and severe droughts
affecting agriculture in 1976 and 1977. Also contributing to the slow growth
was the uncertainty associated with protracted Canal Treaty negotiations
and some Government actions, specifically wage and labor policies, price
controls and direct Government involvement in production activities, sometimes
in competition with the private sector.
4.        There were indications of a slight recovery in economic activity
beginning during the third quarter of 1978 and continuing through the first
half of 1979. This improvement, reflected in a resurgence in construction
activity and in the demand for bank credit, derived in large measure from
revival of confidence associated with the signing of the Panama Canal Treaty,
the installation of a new Government, and continuing dialogue between the
Government and the private sector. However, the slowdown in bank advances
to the private sector during the third quarter of 1979 suggests that the
earlier recovery may not be sustained.
5.        The scope and role of the public sector has changed dramatically
since the Revolutionary Government assumed power in 1968. The Government's
three main concerns were to eliminate rural poverty, to increase national
control over the economy, including the Panama Canal, and to create new
sources of economic growth and the exports. Social programs in health and



-2-
education were extended to most areas, and an agrarian reform program was
initiated. Major investments were undertaken in transportation, tourism,
international commercial infrastructure, water, sewerage, and power; mostly
to provide support for new private activities. Power and part of telecommuni-
cations were nationalized. New state enterprises were created for export
crops such as sugar, citrus, and bananas. Self-sufficiency in basic foodstuffs
such as rice, corn, and beans was accorded high priority.
6.        While the Government's social programs had considerable success, its
production programs produced mixed results. The rural population with access
to potable water increased from 43 percent in 1970 to 63 percent in 1976. One-
third of the total population was enrolled in schools of all types by 1978,
compared to less than a quarter in 1968. Infant mortality declined by 20 per-
cent between 1968 and 1976 and fertility rates fell from 131.3 per thousand in
1971 to 114.0 per thousand in 1975. On the other hand, production programs in
agriculture have led to self-sufficiency in rice, but have had less impact
on the output of beans and beef. Similarly, the Government's enterprises
have served to increase output but in most cases have operated unprofitably.
However, some of the internationally-oriented projects, such as banking and
the Free Zone, have been quite successful. The Government has now under
consideration a copper project, Cerro Colorado, which given its total cost--over
US$1.5 billion--and financing requirements and the volatility of copper prices,
would have an unusual impact on an economy the size of Panama and would entail
substantial risks.
7.        The high level of investment in economic and social infrastructure
coupled with substantial losses of new state enterprises resulted in a
significant increase in the public external debt, despite the introduction of
measures to strengthen the public finances. New taxes (including a 5 percent
value added tax) and significant increases in utility rates were introduced in
1977. At the same time civil service salaries were frozen. The immediate
effect was to reduce the public sector deficit from 18.5 percent of GDP in
1976 to 13.4 percent in 1977. However, in 1978 the public sector deficit
rose to over 15 percent of GDP due to higher interest costs as LIBOR rose
and a faster rate of implementation of capital projects was achieved. Gross
borrowing by Government increased rapidly as the Government sought both to
cover its deficit and to refinance the debt in order to achieve a more manage-
able debt service profile.
8.        At the end of 1978, Panama's disbursed external debt reached US$1,895
million or about 80 percent of estimated GDP. Loans from financial institu-
tions and suppliers' credits accounted for 65 percent, the remainder being
accounted for in equal parts by multilateral, bilateral, and bond-holding
sources.  Despite the 1978 refinancing operation, service on the public debt
still absorbs a substantial proportion of public revenues. In 1979, public
sector external debt service is expected to be around 38 percent of public
revenues. While the comparison with 1978 would be distorted by the large
refinancing operation of that year, the comparison with 1977 when foreign debt
service was 24 percent of public sector revenue reveals the rapid growth in
the burden of the debt. Because of Panama's unique financial structure, which
is characterized by the absence of a Central Bank of issue and by the use of a
foreign currency--the U.S. dollar--for domestic transactions, foreign exchange
flows into and out of the economy are unrestricted and such flows are even more
important than export earnings in determining the availability of funds for
servicing the external debt of the economy. The Government's ability to service



the public debt depends on its ability to generate savings in the public
sector or marshall new borrowings to refinance payments on past orLes.
9.        During 1979, public expenditures were pushed further up, beyond
programmed levels, by the rising interest cost of the public debt, petroleum
price increases, and expenses associated with reversion to Panamanian control
of facilities in the former Canal Zone. Moreover, the failure to scale down
the emergency work program and unprofitable public, commercial operations in
such sectors as sugar and cement continued to aggravate the deficit. Although
Government revenues were buoyant, a public sector deficit of US$320-340
million (equivalent to about 12 percent of GDP), representing only a slight
decline from the US$365 million in 1978, and well over the US$260 million
originally expected for 1979, is now likely. There has been no improvement in
public sector savings, which have been virtually nil in recent years. Panama's
ability to meet its rising public debt burden (public external debt service
was 7 percent of GDP in 1977 and is estimated at over 13 percent in 1979), and
to finance public investment continue to depend excessively on commercial bank
lending. The Government, after a prolonged strike, recently increased teachers'
pay and other public sector employees are expecting comparable increases. The
prospect for 1980 is thus for larger salary and interest costs with likely
increases in energy prices as well, all exerting pressure on curreait expendi-
tures. The economic recovery may well continue to be slow, thus :Lending less
buoyancy to revenues. Given the poor near-term prospects for generating
increased public savings, it is unlikely that public investment can continue
to provide the major impulse to Panamanian growth.
10.       Therefore, the strategy for recovery and growth of the P?anamanian
economy now requires that private capital and entrepreneurs provide the
buoyancy in economic activity which the government sector can no Longer
provide. New opportunities have indeed been created for the private sector.
The high level of public capital investment over the years has provided an
expanded physical infrastructure and a relatively skilled labor force.
Investments in hydropower are reducing Panama's dependence on increasingly-
expensive imported petroleum. Tax incentives and financing facilities for
industry are readily available. In agriculture, recent increases in support
prices and provision of credit facilities are designed to realize the potential
for increased production and exports of bananas, grassfed beef, fresh fruit,
cocoa, and coffee, and for replacing imports of vegetable oils and dairy
products for local consumption.
11.       The prospects for growth also depend on the new Canal Treaty, formal
implementation of which began on October 1, 1979 and will end on December 31,
1999, when the Canal and all ancillary facilities revert to Panama. The
immediate financial benefits to Panama include net fiscal receipts of about
US$60 million per year. The United States has also pledged its best efforts
to arrange up to US$200 million in suppliers' credits; up to US$75 million in
guarantees under a USAID housing program; and a guarantee from the U.S.
Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) which will permit up to US$20
million in borrowings for development finance in United States commercial
markets. Assets reverting to Panama in 1979 include the two ports of
Balboa and Cristobal, the railroad from Balboa to Cristobal, two unused
airfields, much valuable land, and most service outlets of the Panama Canal
Company's supply division. The Government of Panama has set up a Canal



-4-
Authority to control, use and maintain, reverting assets or to transfer
these functions to other governmental agencies,as appropriate.
12.       Although the longer term outlook for the Panamanian economy seems
favorable, given its geographic advantages, a low population/land ratio, and
large hydroelectric potential, the medium term outlook will depend on the
public policy approach to certain critical issues. These include the rela-
tive roles of the public and private sectors, the climate for private invest-
ment, the rate of growth of the public external debt, and the avoidance of
inflationary wage increases undermining the public finances and the profit-
ability of private investment. The Government has decided in principle not to
extend itself into further commercial activities. The authorities agree that
measures to reduce the public deficit both by increasing revenues and by contain-
ing expenditures are now urgently needed if a more substantial reduction in the
deficit is to be achieved in 1980. We are now discussing with the Government
the content and the timing of required policy actions and expect to reach an
understanding prior to proposing further Bank lending to Panama.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       The Bank has to date made eighteen loans to Panama totalling US$257.6
million. Of these, eight loans for US$83.4 million, are fully disbursed (two
for roads totalling US$13 million; one for an airport project for US$20 million;
three for agriculture totalling US$4.4 million, and two for power for US$46
million). Ongoing operations include two projects for livestock credit; one
for fisheries; one in development banking; two in the power sector (mainly
for generation and transmission); a fishing port project; a project to help
develop the water supply and sewerage sector; and one for highway maintenance.
The most recent loan, for a tropical tree crop development project, was
approved by the Executive Directors in March 1979. Execution of Bank-financed
projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory, although delays and cost over-
runs occurred particularly with respect to the Tocumen Airport and the Second
Power Projects, both of which have now been completed.
14.       IFC has made three investments in Panama.  The first was a commitment
in 1971 to acquire US$0.3 million of equity in the Corporacion de Desarrollo
Hotelero, S.A. and to lend to the Corporacion US$1.2 million to build a new
international hotel. This project was satisfactorily completed. The second
is a commitment approved by the Executive Directors in December 1977 to lend
US$2.4 million and acquire US$1.4 million in equity in Vidrios de Panama, S.A.,
the first glass container factory in Panama. The project is under construction
and should be completed in the first quarter of 1980. The third is a commit-
ment to acquire US$2.5 million in equity in the Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones (BLADEX), a regional export bank proposed and promoted by the
Government of Panama. BLADEX was incorporated in Panama in January 1978 and
IFC's participation as a shareholder was approved in July 1978. Central banks



-5-
and commercial banks in Latin America, as well as many of the largest inter-
national commercial banks are shareholders of BLADEX. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of October 31, 1979,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's
development strategy particularly as regards the further developTnent of
Panama's service industries and the diversification of production and
exports. Specifically, the Bank assists those sectors in which :Lt can make
a special contribution in terms of (i) developing policies and institutions,
(ii) removing infrastructure bottlenecks, and (iii) better utilizing the
country's natural resources. The project now under consideration would result
in an improved infrastructure base by strengthening the power company's ability
to plan, design and execute distribution works. We are currently working with
the Government on the final design of an urban development project for Colon,
Panama's second largest city, which we hope to present for your consideration
in the near future, and on the preparation of a water supply project. In addi-
tion, we hope to assist the Government to address the needs which will result
from the transfer to Panama of the areas adjacent to the Canal. In this
connection, we are considering a project which would assist in tlhe rehabilita-
tion of the Canal ports of Cristobal and Balboa. The Bank is also considering
a government request for financing the promotion of exploration of energy
resources and technical assistance for energy sector development, as discussed
in para. 21 below.
16.       Both the USAID and the IDB have lent substantial amounts for agricul-
ture and for social services (including family planning in the case of USAID).
Past lending patterns are likely to persist, at least as regards the social
services, because the Government prefers to borrow on concessionary terms for
those sectors, while utilizing assistance received on harder terms for projects
which are expected to result in more immediate economic benefits. In addition
to agriculture and social services, the IDB is financing road construction,
industry and telecommunications, sectors in which it is likely that it will
continue lending. The IDB also participated with the Bank in the financing of
the Fortuna Hydroelectric Project. USAID will concentrate its efforts on man-
power training and projects oriented toward environmental protection. Both IDB
and USAID are also likely to lend for energy, the latter for research and the
former for rural electrification.
17.       The Bank's share of Panama's publicly guaranteed external debt out-
standing and disbursed was 5.6 percent at the end of 1978 and the Bank's
share of public external debt service is projected to be 3.75 percent at the
end of 1979. These percentages are expected to drop slightly in the 1980s.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resources
18.       Panama's highly urbanized economy (50 percent of the population
lives in the metropolitan Panama-Colon corridor in central Panama) and the
pivotal role played by the sophisticated internationally-oriented services
(Colon Free Zone, banking) in terms of GDP growth and employment, have required



- 6 -
a highly reliable basic infrastructure. The Government has therefsLre given
high priority to investments in essential services such as water and electri-
city. It has done so not only to meet the needs of the dynamic urban economy,
but also in an effort to improve economic and social conditions in the provin-
cial towns and in rural areas.
19.       Panama's per capita consumption of electricity 1/ was 616 kWh in
1975, 703 kWh in 1977 and is estimated at 752 kWh in 1979, among the highest
in Latin America. Total sales in the systems supplied by IRHE, the government-
owned agency which is practically the only supplier of electricity in the coun-
try, grew at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent in the 1975-78 period, and
are projected to grow at 8 percent in the 1979-87 period. The projected growth
takes into account the requirements of a number of projects which have been
recently completed (new airport and cement plant), and the resumption of sales
to the Panama Canal, which were temporarily suspended in 1978. Residential
and commercial customers represent about 64 percent of total sales, reflect-
ing the key role of the service sector in the economy. Sales to industrial
consumers represent about 11 percent of total sales. Sales to the Government,
municipalities and other government agencies represent 20 percent and sales
to other consumers represent 5 percent. The patterns of electricity consump-
tion are not expected to change substantially in the 1979-87 period, although
there is likely to be an increase in the sales to Government from 17 percent
in 1979 to 22 percent in 1987, reflecting the expansion of governmental
activities.
20.       For the future, the principal source of primary energy in Panama now
identified is hydro energy. IRHE has investigated about 30 new sites which would
allow the installation of about 1,900 MW and would provide an average generation
of about 10,000 GWh per year (which would permit to supply the country's
electricity requirements for the next 25 years assuming present consumption
growth rates). Of these, the 264 MW Changuinola hydro-electric project in
western Panama has been identified as the next site to be developed. Panama
imports all of its petroleum requirements, and up to 1976 relied almost
exclusively on thermal generation for supply of electricity. The slow develop-
ment of the country's hydroelectric potential is explained by the fact that
the development of hydroelectric sites was legally reserved to IRHE which
did not, prior to the 1970's, have the financial and technical resources to
carry out major investments. IRHE's generation expansion program includes
mainly hydroelectric developments (see para. 25 below).
21.       The Government has expressed its interest in reviewing with the
Bank's assistance the present status and development prospects of the energy
sector in Panama. A Bank mission visited the country in September 1979 with
a view to recommending energy pricing and conservation policies, strategies
for exploration of energy resources and making proposals for setting up the
overall sector organization under an appropriate governmental agency. To
this end, the mission reviewed the role of the agencies involved in sectoral
matters, the trends of energy demand and supply, the availability of energy
resources and their potential development, and the prices of energy products.
A report on the sector, now under preparation, will be discussed with the
Government in early 1980. The Government has expressed interest in obtaining
1/   Excluding the former Canal Zone.



Bank financing to assist it in promoting exploration and to provide technical
assistance for energy sector development. The Bank is considering this
request.
Power Sector Organization and Regulation
22.       IRHE, an autonomous Government agency, is the sole entity responsible
for public service power supply in Panama. IRHE's Board of Directors is in
charge of regulating the power sector. There is no separate regulatory body
for the sector and tariffs have to be approved by the Cabinet on the recommen-
dation of the company's Board (see paragraphs 36 - 38 below).
23.       IRHE has taken over the electricity supply in the areas of the
former Canal Zone which reverted to Panama on October 1, 1979. The additional
service is not expected to represent a substantial increase in IRHE's present
operations. Under a 1969 contract, the former Panama Canal Company could buy
from IRHE up to 30 MW and 210 GWh in power and energy, respectively. This
contract has been cancelled now that the Canal Commission has taken over the
operations of the Panama Canal. A new contract is under discussion between
IRHE and the Canal Commission. Sales under this new contract are expected to
be about 80 GWh per year.
Power Sector Development
24.       The main objectives of IRHE's expansion program are:  (i) to integ-
rate the small isolated systems to the regional systems; (ii) to interconnect
the regional systems through a high-voltage national grid; and (iii) to develop
the country's hydro resources to meet the increase in demand and to substitute
high cost thermal generation.
25.       As mentioned above, up to 1976, Panama relied almost exclusively
on thermal generation to supply electricity. Since the commissioning of the
Bank-financed 150 MW Bayano hydroelectric plant late in 1976 and of the La
Estrella plant in 1979, IRHE has considerably reduced its fuel consumption.
The sharp increases in fuel prices since 1973 have been reflected in IRHE's
least-cost expansion program which now includes mostly hydroelectric projects.
The present expansion program, which is based on a Master Plan for 1979-2000,
was prepared in 1978-79 by IRHE with the assistance of C.T. Main (USA) and
individual consultants. It consists of the completion of the 90 MW La Estrella-
Los Valles and of the 255 MW Fortuna hydroelectric projects, the raising of
the Fortuna Dam, installation of a 25 MW gas turbine; and the construction
of the 264 MW Changuinola hydroelectric project. The program also includes
the recently-completed David-Llano Sanchez 220 kV transmission line and
associated substations which interconnects west and central Panama and the
construction of the 345 kV Changuinola-Fortuna-Panama transmission line and
associated substations. Finally, the expansion program includes the completion
of ongoing subtransmission lines and substations and routine distribution,
construction of subtransmission and distribution facilities required in 1980-87
and a rural electrification program for the 1982-86 period. The cost of the
1979-87 expansion program, excluding interest during construction, is estimated



-8-
at about US$873 million in current prices, of which about US$584 million or 67
percent would be imported costs. In order to ensure an orderly financing pro-
cess and to ensure that only sound projects are undertaken, IRHE has agreed not
to undertake or permit to be undertaken on its behalf, any major expansion
project (defined as in excess of 1 percent of its revalued gross fixed assets)
other than those included in the agreed-upon program (corresponding to the
1980-1987 slice of the above-referred program), unless it has furnished to the
Bank satisfactory evidence that such projects are economically justified and
that it will have adequate financial, technical and managerial resources to
carry them out (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
26.       The rural electrification policies and program are still being developed.  -
The concentration on investments in the urban system reflects the heavy urbaniza-
tion of the country and the urgency of providing adequate public utility facili-
ties to the service sector. The electricity supply required by rural development
programs is considered now on a case-by-case basis by IRHE. IRHE is developing
policies for rural electrification and with the assistance of consultants
financed by the 1DB is preparing the feasibility study for a five-year rural
electrification program (to be completed by the end of 1979). The IDB has
indicated its willingness to consider this program for financing.
27.       The main constraint for future sector development is the limited
availability of highly qualified technical and managerial staff. The present
staffing will permit IRHE to successfully execute the ongoing generation and
transmission projects and the company is taking steps to increase and train
its staff to ensure the efficient execution of the project as well as its long-
term requirements. The sector is not expected to face major financial con-
straints during the 1979-1987 period given the investment program presently
contemplated and assuming that electricity rates will be adjusted as required
to provide an 8.75 percent rate of return.
28.       In the event that the large Cerro Colorado copper mining project
is carried out, IRHE should be able to execute the resulting much-enlarged
investment program provided that there is an increased participation of
consultants in both design and supervision activities and a more selective
participation of highly-qualified IRHE staff in the design of projects and
supervision of construction activities. Although the decision to proceed with
Cerro Colorado would result in higher financing requirements in the early
years of the period, preliminary estimates of the magnitude of the investments
indicate that IRHE should be able to meet the financing requirements, assuming
electricity rates are adjusted to achieve an 8.75 percent rate of return
starting in 1980, and continued access to borrowings on favorable terms.
Should Cerro Colorado proceed, the Bank would review the required electricity
investments (see para. 25 above). Since bulk consumers would become increas-
ingly important were the Government and other investors to undertake major
projects like Cerro Colorado, IRHE has agreed to sell electricity to large
users at prices no lower than the long-term marginal cost of supplying such
electricity (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05).
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
29.       Since 1962, the Bank has made four loans to IRHE, totalling US$118
million. These have helped to finance mostly hydroelectric and thermal plants
and-their associated transmission, although they have also included financing
for some subtransmission and distribution components. Bank participation



-9 -
has contributed to improve sector organization and planning and ha3 facilitated
the inflow of foreign commercial financing to the sector on appropriate terms.
Bank lending has assisted IRHE and the Government in their efforts to establish
electricity rates which are consistent with production costs and permit the
sector to generate a substantial part of the funds required for its investment
program. The First Power Project (Loan 322-PAN of 1963; US$4 million) helped
finance a small hydroelectric plant in central Panama and was completed without
major difficulties. The Second Power Project (Loan 661-PAN of 1970 for US$42
million) helped finance the first stage of the Bayano hydroelectric plant; some
diesel and steam generating units; associated transmission; expansion of IRHE's
distribution system; and studies, training and consultants' services. The
project was completed in 1976. During the execution of the project, IRHE
encountered major difficulties which resulted in a total delay of about 22
months in the implementation of the project and cost overruns amounting to
about 84 percent. At the Bayano hydro plant, the main difficulties were the
need to change the consulting engineers, problems with the main contractor
and shortages of materials. Other difficulties resulted from problems in the
construction of the steam unit, IRHE's lack of experience in dealing with large
projects and higher than expected inflation rates in 1972-75. The project
performance audit report on Loan 661-PAN (Report No. 2508-DED, dalted May 15,
1979) has been distributed to the Executive Directors; the report concluded
that in spite of the delays and cost overruns, the project accomplished its
objectives.
30.       Loan 948-PAN for US$30 million made in 1974, is assisting in financing
the Third Power Project which consists of diesel generation, high-voltage trans-
mission, a national load dispatch and communication center, subtransmission
and distribution and studies and training. The Third Power Project was
substantially completed by the end of 1977, the original completion date.
Nevertheless, some of the subtransmission works included in the project have
suffered substantial delays and are now expected to be completed by mid-1980.
The delays are due mainly to IRHE's lack of experience with subtransmission and
distribution projects, to difficulties with contractors and to the concentra-
tion of IRHE's efforts in the large generation and transmission projects under
execution. The project cost in current prices is estimated at US$49 million or
27 percent over the appraisal estimate. Loan 1470-PAN for US$42 million made
in 1977 helped in the financing of the Fourth Power Project which comprised
the 255 MW Fortuna hydroelectric plant, associated transmission and an organi-
zational improvement program and training. The project is cofinanced by IDB
and suppliers and is proceeding satisfactorily. The underground civil works,
which are being financed by the IDB are underway. The contract for the main
generating equipment, which is being financed with credits from suppliers, has
been awarded and procurement for the dam and diversion works, financed by the
Bank, is almost completed with small delays which would not postpone the
commissioning of the project in 1983, as estimated at appraisal. The project
cost is still substantially the same as estimated at appraisal.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       A report entitled "r.S.iff Appraisal of a Fifth Power Project - Instituto
de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion (IRHE)", dated Novembetr 19, 1979, is
being distributed separately. The project was prepared by IRHE, with the



- 10 -
assistance of consultants. C.T. Main (US) prepared the initial Master Electri-
fication Plan and assisted IRHE in updating it. The feasibility study for
IRHE's distribution and subtransmission expansion for 1980-1984, which is the
basis for this project, was carried out by IRHE with the assistance of Hydro
Quebec (Canada). The project was appraised in May/ June 1979 and negotiations
were held in Washington on November 5 and 6, 1979. IRHE and the Republic of
Panama were represented by a delegation led by Messrs. Jose Blandon, Deputy
Director General of IRHE and Orlando Caicedo, Chief of the Sectoral Planning
Division of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy.
The Project
32.       IRHE has a long tradition of distribution work (it was initially
in charge of distribution in the rural areas of Panama), but the need to
focus attention on the generating and transmission systems led the company
to minimize its subtransmission and distribution investment in recent years.
The Bank included in the Second and Third Power projects financing for some new
subtransmission and distribution components in the Central Provinces and West
Panama Province. Nevertheless, a large part of the existing systems in the
Central Provinces and especially in the Province of Chiriqui have not received
any attention for years and require urgent rehabilitation or replacement. In
addition, most of these systems were built utilizing second hand and scrap
materials and have been in service for more than thirty years. As a result,
IRHE's subtransmission and distribution facilities in many areas are obsolete
and do not conform to uniform standards. This makes maintenance expensive and
difficult to carry out. Further, unless remedial action is taken, the sub-
transmission and distribution systems would be inadequate to meet the projected
increase in demand even though the additional generation and transmission will
then be available from the large projects now under construction. One of the
purposes of the project, therefore, is to strengthen IRHE's capability to plan,
design and execute its subtransmission and distribution works. To meet this
objective, the project includes consulting services for planning and design;
improvement in procurement procedures; and measures to increase IRHE's design
and construction capability. The project would bring about an improvement
in the standardization of the installations by establishing uniform design
standards, would ensure reliable service, and reduce the system's losses.
33.       The project would consist of a program designed to rehabilitate
and expand IRHE's subtransmission and distribution systems in 1980-83. It
represents the least-cost alternative to supplying prospective new customers
and rehabilitating obsolete distribution and subtransmission facilities.
The project would include 38 specific subprojects which would be executed
in 1980-83 and the routine distribution expansion required to connect new
consumers in the 1981-1982. In addition, the project would include
technical services to strengthen IRHE's planning and design of distribution
and subtransmission works. A breakdown of the project components is given
in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
Project Cost and Financing
34.       The cost of the project in current prices, excluding interest during
construction, is estimated at about US$35 million of which the imported compo-
nent would be about US$23 million. The project cost estimate was prepared



- 11 -
by IRHE and reviewed by Hydro Quebec (Canada). Equipment and material prices
and installation costs were based on IRHE's costs and on the most recent
contracts made for similar installations. All base prices are as of mid-1979.
The cost of engineering, design, supervision and administration of the project
was estimated at 9 percent of the total base cost plus physical contingencies
and is based on IRHE's own cost for similar works. Physical contingencies
were estimated at 10 percent for subtransmission and routine distribution
expansion. These values are considered appropriate given the type of sub-
projects included in the project. Price contingencies were estimated assum-
ing annual inflation rates of 8 percent for civil works and installation,
7 percent for equipment and materials, and 6 percent for engineering and
administration. The cost of consulting services is based on actual prices
charged by consultants for similar services. Engineering services would have
an average cost of US$10,800 per man-month for subtransmission and distribution
design, and US$10,000 per man-month for subtransmission and distribution planning
assistance and for sector studies. A breakdown of project costs is given in
the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
35.       The proposed US$23 million Bank loan would finance the imported
cost of the project. The local cost of the project or US$12 million would
be financed from IRHE's own internal cash generation. No governmrent financ-
ing is expected to be required for the project but the Government: has agreed
to provide any additional funds that may be necessary to carry ou1t the project.
The Borrower
36.       The Borrower would be IRHE, an autonomous agency of the Panamanian
Government, charged with the task of developing and operating the public
generation, transmission and distribution facilities. IRHE was created in
1961 and assigned the exclusive right to develop the hydroresources of the
country. In 1969, IRHE's functions were expanded when it was charged with
the exclusive right to construct and operate all new sources of generation
in the country. In 1972, the company's role again changed significantly when
the Government purchased and transferred to IRHE the assets of FyL, a subsidiary
of Boise Cascade, USA, the largest utility in Panama. FyL had concessions
for the operation of electricity, telephones and gas services in the cities
of Panama and Colon. A new autonomous agency, the Instituto Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones (INTEL) took over the telephone operations in January 1,
1974, and subsequently, in 1976 IRHE closed its gas operations in Panama City.
IRHE has continued the gas operations in Colon, which produce a negligible
annual loss of about US$0.2 million.
37.       Since 1974, IRHE has been faced with the need to change its organi-
zation to meet the requirements of its greatly expanding role and size. IRHE
is carrying out a comprehensive program, partly financed by the Bank under
Loan 1470-PAN, to improve its organization and train its staff to meet the
requirements for the next ten years. Up to 1976, IRHE suffered from the
Government's reluctance to authorize electricity rate increases over and
above those resulting from the steep rise in fuel prices. IRHE's decreasing
dependence on fuel imports together with an effective improvement in the
managerial capability in finances and planning have contributed to strengthen
IRHE's autonomy.



- 12 -
Organization, Management and Staff
38.       IRHE's organization is well structured.  IRHE's Board of Directors
is composed of seven members, appointed by the President, who represent the
private and public sectors. The Board is chaired by the Minister of Planning
and Economic Policy. Administration is entrusted to a Director General, a
Deputy Director General and a Technical Director. The first two are appointed
by the President. The Technical Director is appointed by the Director General.
39.       In February 1978, IRHE started, with the assistance of Gilbert and
Associates, USA (G&A) the organizational improvement and training program
included in the Fourth Power Project.  The program has received full top
management support, and is being carried out satisfactorily by IRHE and highly
qualified staff appointed by G&A. The program already has brought about
important improvements. There have been changes in the organizational
structure of the company with the creation of Deputy Director positions and
the strengthening of the Planning and Finance Directorates. Financial and
load forecasting models have been developed and implemented, the accounting
and billing systems improved and IRHE's risk insurance policies reassessed
and improved to reduce the annual premiums paid while increasing the risk
coverage.
Financial Performance of IRHE
40.       IRHE's financial performance deteriorated during the 1974-1976
period, mainly due to large cost overruns in its expansion program, low tariff
levels and insufficient Government contributions. As a result, IRHE's rate of
return on its revalued rate base was only 2.1 percent in 1976, as compared with
the 8.75 percent which had been agreed upon with the Bank. In 1977, IRHE and
the Government started a program designed to bring about financial recovery
which was agreed upon with the Bank and which called for, among other things:
(i) tariff increases to allow IRHE to earn a 7 percent rate of return in 1977,
8 percent in 1978 and 8.75 percent in 1979 and thereafter, (ii) Government
equity contributions totalling US$49.5 million over the 1977-1981 period, and
(iii) settlement of overdue accounts by the Government and its agencies. The
Government and IRHE have been substantially in compliance with the above under-
takings; IRHE's actual rates of return were only slightly lower than those
agreed (6.9 percent in 1977 and 7.9 percent in 1978) and the Bank agreed to
grant waivers for both years. IRHE's accounts are audited by Arthur Anderson
(US) and its financial reporting is very good.
41.       IRHE's financial position has now improved.  Its contribution to
investment and debt service coverage were lower in 1977 and 1978 than antici-
pated at the time of the appraisal of the Fourth Power Project, largely due
to a slower than forecast growth in sales, cost overruns in the Estrella-Los
Valles hydroelectric projects, and higher-than-expected operating costs.
IRHE's contribution to investment was 8 percent in 1978 (as opposed to a
negative contribution in 1976), and its debt-service coverage was 1.1 in 1977
and 1.2 in 1978, compared to 0.8 in 1976. IRHE's debt/equity ratio still is a
reasonable 48:52, although IRHE has had to borrow heavily to finance its large
investment program.



- 13 -
42.       Tariff actions taken during 1979, which include, inter alia, an
increase of 4.6 percent in the basic tariff effective October 1, 1979 and an
adjustment of the fuel surcharge to reflect higher fuel prices, represent
an estimated annual increase of about 6.6 percent in average total bjilling
per kWh. IRHE's rate of return for 1979 is now estimated at around 8.2 percent,
still slightly below the 8.75 percent required under Loan 1470-PAN. The
corresponding shortfall in revenues (about US$2 million) would not endanger
IRHE's financial situation, and the Bank would favorably consider waiving the
8.75 percent rate of return covenant for 1979. The Government has taken
formal steps for approval of an increase in IRHE's basic tariff by 6.2 percent
on January 1, 1980, which should enable it to reach a rate of return of
8.75 percent in 1980. Initiation of tariff increases which would enable IRHE
to earn an 8.75 rate of return in 1980 is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
43.       The Government and IRHE have agreed to maintain a rate of return of
8.75 percent on its revalued rate base (Loan Agreement, Section 5.07(a) and (c)).
Assets would continue to be revalued in accordance with a method agreed upon
with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). The appropriateness of the
rate of return will be reviewed should an event take place which in the opinion
of the Bank or IRHE, has, or will substantially change the company's financial
position. If necessary, the rate of return would be revised taking into
account the need for IRHE (i) to earn a reasonable return on its investment,
including an adequate future level of self-financing in accordance with its
long-term expansion requirements and its financial and other objectives, and
(ii) to set rates for the sale of electricity not lower than the long-term
marginal cost of supplying it. A revised rate of return would have to be
agreed to between IRHE and the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 5.07(b)).
44.       IRHE would contribute internally about 30 percent to its investment
during the project execution period (1979-1983) and 55 percent over the longer
1979-1987 period, which is reasonable. Borrowings include a bond issue of
US$45 million (which was on-lent from the Government to IRHE), with a 12-year
maturity, including a 4-year grace period, which was signed in July 1979. An
additional loan of about US$6 million (assumed under commercial bank terms)
will be required in 1981. Substantial future borrowings would only be needed
starting in 1986-1987, primarily to help finance the large Changuinola hydro-
electric project. Forecasts indicate that there will not be a need for gov-
ernment contributions additional to the amounts already committed. Following
completion of the main works for the Fortuna hydroelectric plant in 1981,
IRHE's level of investment expenditures will drop significantly, from an annual
average of about US$86 million in 1979-1981 to US$48 million in 1982-1984;
construction expenditures will return to high levels after 1984, as construc-
tion starts on the Changuinola hydroelectric project. IRHE is thus expected
to show cash surpluses, totalling about US$50 million, in the 1982-1985 period,
when its investment cycle is at a low point.
45.       IRHE's financial situation is expected to continue to improve during
the project execution period. As mentioned above, IRHE would not need govern-
ment transfers additional to those already committed for the Fortuna and
Estrella-Los Valles projects and for the existing fuel subsidy (9.75 percent
of fuel costs). Its debt service coverage ratio is expected to increase from
1.19 in 1978 to 3.12 in 1986, while its debt/equity ratio is forecasted to



- 14 -
decrease from 48:52 in 1978 to 18:82 in 1986. IRHE has agreed to seek Bank
concurrence for borrowings of more than one year if its net revenues do not
cover its maximum future debt service requirements more than 1.4 times. IRHE
will also limit its borrowings of less than one year to one-fifth of its cash
operating, maintenance and administrative expenses during the preceding
12-month period (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04).
46.        IRHE's customers' accounts receivable stood at a reasonable 62 days
as of the end of July 1979, down from 89 days as of end 1978, as a result of
substantial payments made by the Government during the year. IRHE has agreed
to maintain the 60 days limit for electricity bills outstanding and unpaid.
The Government has agreed to take all actions necessary to cause its political
subdivisions and agencies to settle their electricity bills within at most
60 days of billing (Loan Agreement, Section 5.06, and Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.03).
Project Execution
47.       The project is expected to take four years to execute.  Design
and procurement of the subprojects which would be implemented prior to 1981
started in August 1979 and is being carried out by IRHE with the assistance
of consultants. IRHE has the capacity to carry out the design and procure-
ment for some of the specific subprojects included in the project and for
the routine destribution works up to 1981. IRHE has agreed to increase its
design capability by September 1980 as required to carry out the project
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(b)). Construction and installation of the
project items will be carried out by IRHE except for one package of subprojects
in the Province of Chiriqui which would be carried out by contractors. IRHE
can carry out the installation of the routine distribution expansion and some
of the specific subprojects up to 1981 with its present staff and construction
equipment. IRHE has agreed to increase its distribution and subtransmission
construction capability before the end of 1981 to ensure the timely implementa-
tion of the project after 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(b)).
Procurement and Disbursements
48.       Procurement for equipment, materials and civil works required for
the project would be through international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Most of the equipment and materials would be packaged
in a small number of bulk contracts so as to improve the standardization of
equipment and obtain lower prices. IRHE did not request preferences for local
suppliers, since none of the equipment and materials required for the project
is produced locally.
49.       Disbursements from the loan account would be fully documented and
would be made for 100 percent of the foreign expenditures of equipment,
materials and their installation and consulting services. The Bank would
retroactively finance consulting services up to US$250,000 for preparation
of designs and bidding documents for the project from August 1, 1979 to the
date of loan signing.



- 15 -
Environmental Aspects
50.       IRHE, following its usual practice, would carry out the project
with due regard to environmental protection. None of the subproject:s nor the
routine distribution expansion included in the project is expected t:o involve
any risk to the environment. Rehabilitation and expansion of existing
facilities will not normally involve new rights-of-way. In the case of new
lines and substations, the routes and locations will be selected to minimize
clearance of new rights-of-way.
Return on Investment
51.       The project is an integral part of a group of activities which
together will provide benefits to the economy. It is impossible to determine
the contribution of each component to the flow of benefits. Hence, the rate
of return of the group of projects or activities is used as a proxy for that
of the project. The group of projects consists of the subtransmission and
distribution expansion program for the 1980-84 period plus the associated
generation and transmission investment required to supply the energy and peak
demand in the same period. Benefits were measured by the forecast revenues
from the sales of electricity at the average retail level. The return for
the program would be about 18 percent. The return would be about 17 percent
if the cost of the subtransmission and distribution program increase by 15
percent. If program costs do not increase but benefits are 15 percent lower
than estimated, the return would be about 15 percent. If costs increase by
15 percent and the benefits decrease by 15 percent the return on the investment
program would be about 14 percent. The actual economic rate of return of the
project is likely to be higher since revenues from electricity sales do not
fully reflect all the benefits to society.
Project Risks
52.       The execution of the project does not involve any risks other than
those normally associated with the construction of subtransmission and distri-
bution works. IRHE carries out construction works with due consideration
to safety and has a good accident record. All the rehabilitation works of
existing installations in congested urban areas and the expansion which
require careful coordination of work on energized networks will be carried out
by IRHE. All works to be carried out by contractors will be supervised by
IRHE. Construction schedules for the subprojects are based on average comple-
tion times for similar installations and consequently no major delays are
expected; IRHE has agreed to contract the additional design and construction
staff to ensure that the programmed schedules are met.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Instituto de
Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrificacion, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of Panama and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided



- 16 -
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Initiation of tariff increases
which would enable IRHE to earn an 8.75 percent rate of return in 1980 would be
a special condition of effectiveness.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 26, 1979



-17 -                                              Annex ]:
TARLESA                                            Page 1 of 5
PANA -86MAL INDICATORS DATA SIMET
pANDTA                      RRZHRENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AAGCS
LAND   AasA (SHOUSAKD SQ  B.)                                         - HOST RECENT ESTIMAT)TI
TOTAL             75. 7                                                    SMIE         SAME     mm lT FIU
AGRICULTURAL       17.2                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         mICOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /I
GNP PER CAPITA (USI)                   350.0       690.0    1220.0           1074.6      1748.5       2754.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      448.0        683.0     885.0            943.1      1646.7       2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        1.1         1.5        1.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 40.5          48.1       51.4            59.3        51.2         72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILLIONS)                           4.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        14.0         20.0      24.0             23.5        28.2         33.5
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      76.0         89.0     105.0             80.5       100.5         91.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.7         43.9      42.2             40.9        35.4        33.3
15-64 YRS.                          52.3         52.4      54.0             54.4       56.3         57.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.0          3.7       3.8              3.9         5.1          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          2.9       2.7              2.4         1.7         2.1
URBAN                               4.3          4.4       4.1              3.7         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      41.0         37.0      31.0             32.8        27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.0          8.0        6.0             8.5         9.1          8.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8          2.8        2.5             2.4         1.8         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..      15.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      44.0             17.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           77.4         94.0     100.0             99.4       102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0        116.0     105.0            107.0       120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           59.0         61.0      58.6             60.4        80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        29.0         31.0      30.0             28.3        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       9.6          6.0       3.0              6.7         5.1         2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0          66.0      70.0             63.6        65.6        68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            90.0         53.0      47.0             76.1        45.5         20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         70.0      79.0             63.4        69.4         73.9
URBAN                                ..         98.0      93.0             79.5        85.1         94.6
RURAL                                *-         43.0      63.0             38.6        43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         79.7      87.8             58.8        70.1
URBAN                                ..         92.5      97.1             77.8        88.3
RURAL                                ..         68.2      78.0             24.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2700.0       1550.0    1270.0           1841.9      1343.2        981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3460.0/f    1420.0    1440.0             933.7       765.0        397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             250.0        288.0     266.0            563.4       197.6        240.6
'URBAN                                ..       170.0      149.0            279.4      260.2
RURAL                                ..       1530.0    1240.0           1140.9      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        26.0       21.0            25.7        17.3         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.7          4.9         *-             5.0         4.7
URBAN                               4.4           ..         ..              4.8        4.4
RURAL                               4.9           ..         ..             5.3         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.4          2.2        ..              1.3         1.1
URBAN                               2.1          1. 8        ..              1.3        1.2
RURAL                               2.6          2.5         ..             1.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              44.0         52.0         ..            54.3        66.0
URBAN                              82.7         90.4         ..80.1                    85.1
RURAL                               11.0        16.0         .              14.2



- 18 -                                             Annex I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
PANAMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANAMA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SANE        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Ie
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  96.0        103.0      124.0            107.3      101.7        107.6
MALE                  98.0        107.0      126.0            109.1       110.0
FEMALE                94.0        100.0      122.0            107.4       92.8
TOTAL                 29.0         40.0       53.0             40.5        51.2        39.7
MALE                  26.0         38.0      3u.o              40.4        56.4
FEMALE                31.0         42.0       56.0             39.0       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECON'DARY)  28.0          32.0       30.0             18.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0         27.0      30.0              37.1      27.1
SECONDARY                           23.0         21.0      23.0              17.9       2'.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         73.0         82.2/S    78.0              77.4       86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          15.0         32.0      39.7             29.1        53.4         68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOS'5AND
POPULATION                         159.0        157.0      159.0            172.1      225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          10.0        107.0     111.0             67.9       102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         92.0      79.0             76.1        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            4.8        ..               4.2        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        330.0        430.0     496.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.2         25.9      25.9             21.5        24.5         27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               5G.9         41.6      30.4              30.2       28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  13.7         16.1      18.3             23.S        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
"GTAL                                 33.1         34.0      33.8             30.9        33.8         40.1
MALE                                  51.1         49.4       49.1             47.3        51.3        55.7
FEMALE                                14.3         17.9       17.8             13.3       16.3         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.7        1.4              1.5         1.3         1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         17.8        ..             23.7
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           52.7        ..             58.7        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          2.1        ..               2.9        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          9.5        ..               9.9       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (IJSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     335.0            265.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     170.0             185.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     424.0            396.3       550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     424.0            308.1       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      21.0             35.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       30.0             46.6
Not available
Not Applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator end the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, cata for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Latin America;   /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /e High Income (over $2500 per
capita, 1976);   7?  196:;   /S  Age 10 years and over.
May, 1979



- 19 -                                                                        innex .L
~   07 AWIAI TIYOICATORSPaget  3   of   5
Notes:  Although the data arc drawn from sources generaf-1y judged the mest wsthoritati-e sod reliable, it should also be noted that they ma  not be irterna-
tinnally comparable because of the lack of standardzed definitions nod concepts uoed by different countroe3 in collecsting the data. The late are, nontetheless,
ueeful to describe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and charmeterine cael.ai major differences btwe.en countries.
The adjusted group avr-ses for each Indicator are pepulation-ecighted geometric meas, excluding the extreme reluce of the indicator end the mist pojnslated
counutry in each grop. lAue to lack of data, group avrages of .11 indicators for Capital Surplus 0il Exporters sod of indicators of Access to Water sod Emosreta
lispnsa.l, Intoing, Income Distribution sod Poverty for Other country groups are ppuIlation-seighted geometric mess without  ncluain of the eotsa-e  values sod
the mist populated country.  Since the covraes-     of countris-tee mon  the indictr   eed   naalblt    fdata. sd Ls not uniform, caution musc be exercised
in relating averages of one indicator to another.  These averages are roty'sfla   prxiain    f'xetdvlues When comparing ohe values If one
indicator at a time smig the  ouontry  -an  reference groups.
IAND AREA (thousand eq.im.)                                                                      ACccess to   xrete lispos.1 (percn  opouation) - toal  ura-                  .S..E 
Total - Total snaoef ore  o-prising land srea. sd iland waters.                                  Puhrof pepl   tota, ura,nnualsevdb   oetdipalo
Agricultural -  tat recent eo          s  of  iagrcltural area osen temporarily                  percAeotage   of their respective populations. Ezcrteta disposal masy include
or permanently for crops, s,             market sod kitohen gardens or to                      the collection end disposa.l, wI1th or cithoUt treatment, of human. ecereta
lie falle,,                                                                                    sod sace-sater by cater-borne systems or the toe of pit pr~,ois and o,_aiir
installations.
ilPECAIA(US$) -.1N? per capit  estimates at curret miarket ps-ices,                     Popuato   pr 0ys.ca  - Pcpalanico. divided by  -aber of precticong physiicsn.
calculate by sane conrersion method as World Bank Atla  (1916-78 basis);                          ;ualtif led   ofroty eia  ohc tuIvriylvl
10,1970, and l978 data.                                                                    PPuaio        ar lursiog Peso.       -P...tin   docided by outber of Practiciog maie
lo' CREN10   PEP CAPIT-A - Annssosl cosou-ption of oomasertlal energy                      and :'emale grsdssate nuirses, pract.cal nurses, sod  assistant curses.
'"0CoaMn  li te,  erlu,ntrigsadbdo,nceradgo                                                     pniton es 1ai-o.ph          BelPd - total, oma. sod rural -ouato    t-tl, urtn,
thermal electricity) in tilograsms of coal equivalent per capita: 1960,                          nod rura) divided by their respevti-c number of hospital  eoas available in
1970, and 1976 data,                                                                             public sod private general sod specialized hosipital sod rehabilitation centers.
Hospitals are establishments permanently otaffed by at Is..ot one ohysocisoa.
,0CRLTATQN AND1 VITAL S~TATJSTTCS                                                                    stahblobmests providing principally custodial1 car  are oct occluded. P`Lral
Toa  PouainhI-erolln)-  so   uyI   10   90   o                                                    ospitalo, however, include healti sod medical centers eon p.eisaenoi  staffe
1977 data,                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a physsician (but by a medical ea-stionot, curse, midwife, etc.) ohich offer
Uirban Peultion  cercnt of total) - Patio of irha  to totalI population;                         in-atiest socomeodation and s-eoe             limited range of nedics.; facilities.
different definitions of urban area  say affect compa.ranility of data                      Adocooions per Raositl.1 Pod - Tstal msomer of admosoons to or d.oncoages from
amongcounties;1960, 1970, sod 1975 dats.                                                  hospitslo  aiclied hy the outber of be.d,.
Powolation in year 2000 - Current population projections are based on                    M4ousiNG
1975 total population by age sod sex sod chats -  rtality sod fertility                   Averae Size of Hloooenod (c- sons p'er houzobod) - total, 'or-an, sod rural -
rates  Prolection  'crarmeters for mortaloty rates o-prise of three                         A household sce-oos  ofagou           tfodilidualo  she aelvso  duartro  sd
levels ass-ming life expectancy at birth increasig cim  o0untry' a                          their -ain seals.  h boarder or Icoger nay or ma  nit be. inclosod io the
per cap ita income level, sod female life expectancy stahilicing At                         househoid for statistical1 purposco.
77.5 years.  The parameters for fertility rate also have three ievela                     Average number of persons per coos - total1, asrisn, and mrua  - Average osbne
aoouminag declize is fertility  according to income le-el sod past                          or persona per room  i oseirshun, sod rural sccupoed coanettooal iwellingo,
family planning performance. tacb country in then assogned one of these                     respectively.  iwello-gs occlude oco-permahent otruct,,res and unoccupied parts.
sine combinations of   irtality sod fertoility trends for projectios                      Access tc Electricity    cret of dwellings) - total, 'c-boo  and rural -  Ion-
purposes.                                                                                   's inldelnscth electricity  in livong quarers aspecnaeo
itatiosary  populanoct - In a stationa.ry population there is no grwth                         total, urban, sod  -rura  dellicgs respectively.
since toe birth s-tal is equal to the death rate, and also the age
structure remains contant. This is achieved only after fertility rates                  EDUCATION
-ecline to the replacement level of und  oant reproduction rate, shea                     Adju,sted Enrollment Patios
each generaticon of comes replaces itself e-atly.  The stati-esry pope-                     PrimarY so    total. caLe end female - Dross total, male sos fe-al  enrol-
istiosnsine sas estimated on the busis of the projected  bisraterintios                        ...at of all Mages an the proosry Ilevl aso peoenitgee of respective pr-asy
of the population on the year 2000, ann the rate of decline of fer-tiiity                      school-age populations; normally includes children  Magd 6-11 years but
rat e to  -epiaemen  ic-ed.                                                                    adjusted for different lengths of prins-y, education; for coucttroe-oiti
fear stationary poposation to reached - The pear ohen stationary population                      sove-sal education e-rolment sq  exceed 100 p.rceot  ince some pupils
s:ite has been reached,                                                                         are below  Os-  bve tie official school age.
Pcuation Density                                                                                eser   ooi-ttl  oslo sod feosle - Toaputei sti s-;-cooay
.Per oo. ho.-       -pe  population per squre kiloretes- (100 hoenr-ae) of                        edctinr       aus-     ts least four pears of approved s-s-ons-  oc.toutoo-
total  re                                                                                      proides general vocational. or  cace- 'ra-niog  bests-actions for, p.pilc
Per sq. h.agriAcultura! land - Computed an above for agricultural land                           usal   f12t   7par  so  g;srrsodcehore   regnsal
only,                                                                                          occluded.
Pstulatoo- Age itructure  'percnt  - Chi ldren (0-14 ye ars-), working-age                       Po..atina1 enrolment (perceot of -ecodary) - 7ocational insctutioc.s o-o-de
15o   eas,sd retisen  o5 yrar  and ores) as percentages of mid-year                     tevanical, industrial,  s- other  s-ograso chich operate indore.e.tlp  or as
pocuat Isn; 19~60, 1970 , and 1977 data,                                                         ideart,ments of o...codoryintuios
Population Growt  Pate  os-rent) - -totl   Annual  -roth rates of total mid-                     Po,pil-teacher      L rai-pr-ary  sod secondary - Total otuseoto  s-.rcllo'inI
year vopultio.. for 1950-bl, 19b0-70,  -o  1970-f7.                                              promary sod seCMnaylvl   o'-ddb   uce-   ftahrsoIi   s-e
Pcc,sltrtL- 'I-cr.h?t.Ps   osrn  - urban-    nnul groth races of urban                             opoding booml.
populatoosa for  9190-cd19, l76i'P, and 1970-77.                                               Adult literacy s-ste  'cercest) - literate  adults  silo  so rea  sod o-icen
Trude dineh Pate :0ev  busn) - Annual live births per thousand of nod-                             apercentage of total1 dolt popuLatIon Mage  1. yeas sod Os-er.
y-earp     laIn  19bO, 1.970, and 1977 data.
Crude Death Pate  sesr thousand) - Animal deaths per thousand of mid-year                   CPNEUPlyCPD
pouaIn;16,1970, sod 1977 data.                                                      Pansenges - fur    pr thiouand  Poosic           -Paonge-crn coms  e mtor corn
Gros  Rterdutc        ats - Avergesubs- of daughters a .ona  will bear                          setnses   hneght persone; encludea abulances, bearoes sod military
Lon or sos-ra.l s-ep-' t i-e period o,f sicesprOcspresent age-                                vehsclc..
specific fertolity races; usually fi,e-year a-res-ge  ending in 1960,                       Radio Receivers 'ocer thuaopvslatovo)   - All times of vecters for vadi,
1970, and 1975.                                                                               broeucasto  to genera  pulo   pr  hosad ofposaon   ccue   slcne
FeiyPa hoo  - Aceor.Annual 'thousonds. - Abnnualnouter o,f                                recivers  on,coutries note io years ohee  -egootration of s-wit  sets  -a  Ln
acepor  of bic-control iecicc   under auspices of ca.tiosa.l famiiy                           efet  dt   o  rocyans   noct be coeps-no1e since s,    cuts-too
iaiyF nrsc  -  .s.r  'nreto  oastdo   c                       Mecnae of osarrted       TP 1 R eev-s 'ecouaopooti)-TVrec-eir. for brs ,-caos  to gene-tI
semenof ohigd-iearl-.gag' 1-a   ya-c;00-ue lb-bcnrldece                                       public per thoussod pop,,ooton; ecciudes s1oa.cnnd TV receocers isc counts-is-
to all mr-ted snore in some age group.                                                         and Lon years uhen  -eists-atoo   of TV oeta etoeffeeso.
iSwaans  Ticlto     e-tosn            uain        S- ios the uve rae cos..colatios-
r00f ADil NUTRICTION                                                                               ofdiygns-litrs   esvps  ,dfined  so s po-cdocol  obliosei-c
,ndec  f Dcc  Prodcciotner Cpita  l'509-1-i00   - roeo ofper cpsia       eected promasily to recs-diog genes-l cows.  It toa -onider-e  tc he "doily'
annual prod  tit'i , onIl food comIoities  Froutinecide e dsoifocp-aeslatfuromsase.
feed sod 'a on caloaar year moos..  Tomdoties covr prismary goode                           Cinema. AnnualI Attendance ye-  CaDoto  n-r fear - Based so the  -'1,hes  of tookets
(eg.  ougareste o-ted of  sgor) mich -ar  edibie and  ontait cutriento                         oddsi,cs.er   souts   ditcot   sies   ics   cimtl
e..cffee sod toe are ecoluded).  Aggregate production of sacS cosotry                      nitis
isbase  o  ntina  ors-g  pdue   ps-teoights.
Per oxoits  -uopl  ofI    l e    o-etf            ourmeetts  - Cospoted from             lAbOR  FCPEf
e-rgy so-s.loco  ,f oet ccd oupplies  -vailaci  in coun try per capita                    Totollao  F.or  ,th-usnds   - .   -ono-caly actives--on. cluig roe
per day.  br-ola1l  ouppilec  coops-see domestct  peduotoo,c, omports lens                  forces and anoaIyeo b,t ec-iading hueo-st,denots,et.ifoco
vm-cs-t, sod ohnoges in stock.  let supplies occlude animal feed,  eeco,                     on  -ar-a  oc-tri-   r esnsot :ceparoE-
ouoocs  ue  on food prcooo,ad lo -ssst  diL sobtosPquore-                          Pe.-lc "cs-sctc   - Female loire f-ore  so percentage of o-cal L-no- for-
nests~ o-ce vccto-cd by FAC based on pe-iolgtcsai needs for oorma.l                       Agrocult,,-  'De-cnt' ' l"bs-  ocecol Os Cr,iig, forestry, o,untong sod
soci-oty soc teacLh co               --eog no-nmettel temperature, cody veogni,              .'s ga  c-rsentage of  ota  lot  fre,-
age sod zoos ditoi,btoon   of =poulatoon, and .11losong 10 percent fo,r                   _sono-ry  occent"  - lac-       'sce0  minong, ococs-u~C'>, nau'cur                   d o
-sote noh...ol  lce.                                                                         leoc ty, cater  -as enss  p-e-oeoag   of tota  Isbo-Nc'
For cto       -pccly of ornte.o  imssc nec dsp- Feoteoe content of per                      Partieooto.o  date. co-oto   -  mtots., male,  -ai !reoie - Destoo psoce  or
onpoos st s.pp1y' of foci per day' Pet supply of fodo-srcda                                  cooysnosaecoue   ootlZ a,                          sdfci   ..cosr force as ocr-
acore   Pqu-remeots f.os  al cooosetoolusoes by UJSIA podofor                               cetsge-  of total, mai  sod femae copo-latoo of nil Mgec re-petively.
sucomo  al-osane  of SC greso  of coral  s-oteo-  per  sy soc 20 gram  of                   101070, sod 197  oats.  These are rIftC -attlciation sa.eorflecting
-.anie     sod pulc-  ...cetc, of  bodd   10 graems sncuic be animal protein.               ag-e   trutur  of cho couaoc,ad lon  tome cs-etc.  A few e tImte
These csosavi  ore loser than thco-  of 75 gr,sms of total proteo  sod                      ore  '-aneonlsuvn
Ž5 gsno  f asosa  ps--tri  soat avrage for the so-rli. proposed by Ph             csncDpnec  Oot  -  Pa.tio of oiuto   ndes- 15 sod osd over to
on one Toss-v des-Id Fcoo doorvey.   ~O-hr  n-o-   cs-ce on age droop of 1!--  years.
Per caoss. o-d~iets  ,oacp  fo   ooa   o  cube            t- Poo   supply of fond                        3TN
oe-ovd f      "mscui"Iss  puc    .0- trio  cop iy.                                                2T I'DS
TOIL,  acs 1--  Mrt-locy hate  o,rsts-si.-osaldthds-huan                                 0rertag-   P-; viateinom    too'. ..  -asO  ss  -ood  - Pe-ove  by von...ot
oosggs-oF  I-  jos-c,to oolcrn  0  this  o  group; Ccv sot toy--                      per rot,  iciest dO percent, pooes  dO pe-cec, end poorest 00 percent
opococ conso t oasar sfo                It's- tabes                                            00 osusehlds.
MAnOTH                                                                                         0"'f,=   ''APkFCZ   Pft'P
t,Ce iccercanry,so  os-ir ~ yt-rs~   A vero   e -ets  of years of loe-of                                    sodo50s"  'co-Ie    'ODd cs-v  nos      --aosc  -a-
ormoecoc  to tors'. Isi   -o7T  anc lOs-. la.                                            hoeat       -rey oncoe  -e'-el 00 tOioco e-level-hb                        - -o5  stra
cs-Cat , Ao-o rc Oto  ercbca-so'   - Anua  tenths af onan osner one                             tos'    us.4  fequate coot plus vseot.ia  too-foss reouis-e-es to tot
t-o% -nfo Sates   s-e-vet of occ-boio-   - total, os-h_  n  "sa                            0i-'   ed0-oo'--ovpccca  Io;   'IS$ so2                   eoa-    orta  sod rare.;.
choose  of  -rcob    cot-.-  s-ian  ace s-aal sot  raostle toeot                                at;seaN          rety boon    roc 0on-torss-  of avraees saps
Oslo  ater  apoly occlues crates   urfae st-noateco'utprnlocceo  toe scots-f  Jrs-sa  loedI io deo'J                                                rmoe-r.]ee
an tctodmoontro   caeynoss-that form  csones-to  besreholco. ops-ngs,                        o-isuteofr tigher coot of  iv-ng  n0 s-han areas.
soo-coose   a  ulcfu in or soundness located  oct swre than                                 s-or)    Der-cen  of ocouL-soc        'an n o  cres  coo are  absoltepoor'
500 mtes-  0'ssn a005  nay to   . oono-ere  os  ei.tg -stoo  reasnable
tossoc  that oes    srs-al crest  less e   -oes coud  -n.,Y
thot'oseto     s      ormebshe-  of te o--shold Ic sot sav  cc spend aEdccnomi  sod ic-si Gane Di..so.
s.oos-cprtooncport o-f the  sop to oroceeng the fasn.i,ys saters- irri                                                       io-Osmsc -AMaYsos sod ProjectIces Department
August 1979



Annex I
-20-                                      Page 4 of 5
PANAMA - COUNTRY DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 (Prel.) (Current market prices)                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                                1963-68           1968-73         1974-78
GNP at Market Prices              2,270.0       100.0                                 7.0               7.2             1.8
Gross Domestic Investment           649.1        28.6                                10.5             11.1             0.1
Gross National Saving               432.7        19.1                                14.3               7.1           10.2
Current Account Balance           - 216.4       -9.5
Exports of Goods,  NFS              948.4        41.7                                 8.2              4.5             0.0
Imports of Goods,  NFS            1,078.5        47.5                                 6.5              7.5            -4.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                     Labor Force-                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                  Thou.        7%                   US$             %
Agriculture                         330.4        17.1                158.7        31.0                2082.0          55.1
Industry                            474.0       24.5                  83.5        16.3                5677.0         150.3
Services                           1129.8        58.4                261.1        51.0                4327.0         114.5
Unallocated                                                            8.7         1.7                   -             -
Total/Average                  .       _                                __*  o                    o          _
1934.2      100.0                 512.0      100.0                 3778.0         100.0
GOVERNM4ENT FINANCE                                               /3
GOVERNMENT FINA-4CE                General Government -                               Central Government -
(BW. Min.)           % of GDP                      (B/. Min.)            X of GDP
____            197b        1976-77                1970            1978        1976-77
Current Rece,  rs                          _              _                                 417.5           i8.o           16.4
Current Expenditures                       -                                                45.4            19.d           16,5
Current Surplus                          -19.7           -0.9            0.1                -41.9           '1.8           -0.1
Capital Expenditures       -             339.5           14.7           16.5                141.7             6.1            6.1
External Assistance .net.                456.1           19.7           14.5                277.6           12.0            4.9
MONEYs CREDIT AND PRICES
MONEY- CREDIT ANDPRICES1972          1973          1974          1975          1976          1977        1978
(Million B/. outstanding end period)                    "
Money and Quasi Money  5/                    440.4        506.4         596.4         622.1         732.3         791.0      894.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  16.3          6.1          71.4         219.0         313.0         315.0      204.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                703.5        965.1        1229.3        1279.2        1301.8        1369.7     1427.3
(Percentages or Index Number.)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP              33.9        34.4          32.5          32.2          36.5          37.1        38.0
General Price Index (1975 = 100) (wholesale) 62_ 0          67.3         87.7         100.0         107.8         115.5       121.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (wholesale)                 8.5        10.5          30.2          14.0           7.8           7.2         5.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (change)         -4.0        -63.0        1070.0         207.0          42.9           0.6      -35.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector (change)         33.1        37.2          27.4           4.1           1.8           5.2         4.2
Note: In early 1979, the Government revised downwards slightly its estimates of GDP in current prices. While the ratios on
this page reflect the new GDP estimates, the real increases used stem from the old services, which has not yet been
revised.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly of
unemployed workers seeking their first Job.  Excludes collective settlements and indigenous population.
2/ Excludes financial intermediaries. Includes Government owned enterprises.
3/ Cash basis.
4/ The net external borrowing for 1978 is about B/100 million higher than that used for deficit financing in 1978; it will
be used during 1979. The public sector deficit was 15.4 percent of GDP in 1978.
5/ Demand, time and savings deposits only. The amount of US dollars in circulation is unknown. Balboa issues are limited
to coins.



Annex I
- 21 -                           Page 5 of 5
PANAMA - COUNTRY DATA
BALANCE OF PAThENrS                                                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGEs 1975-78)
1975      1976      1977       1978                                         US $ Mln.      %
(M-illion U_S$)
Bananas           3/              64.7      23.3
Exports of Goods, NFS-          851.5     827.7      908.7     948.4           Refined petroleum -               80.8      29.2
Imports of Goods, NFS          -992.1    -976.8    -997.8    1078.5            Shrimp                            28.2      10.2
Resource Gap (Deficit= -)   -140.6   -149.1    - 89.1    -130.1                Sugar                             29.4      10.6
Coffee                             5.2       1.9
(Interest Payments (net)         -20.8     -53.8      -61.4     -85.0           All other commodities             68.8      24.8
lOjther Factor Payments (net)      -         -         -          -
Net Transfers                    -5.0      -3.9       -2.3      -1.3
Balance on Current Account   -166.4   -206.8   -152.8   -216.4                    Total                         251.2    100.0
Balance
Direct Foreign Investment         7.6      10.8       10.9      11.0       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                106.7     332.1     343.2      954.4                                                    US $ Mln.
Amortization                 -27.5     -41.9     -86.9    -440.5
Subtotal                    +79.2      290.2     256.3      513.9          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             1,894.9
Monetary Capital (net)]/       +175.7     +30.7       +4.9   -167.5            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Unidentified private capital                                                   Total outstanding & Disbursed            1,894.9
and net errors and             -96.1  -124.9    -119.3    -141.0
omissions                                                                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977-
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                      330.7     265.0     254.2      218.0          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              19.9
of which:  Petroleum     324.2      258.4     247.6     216.8           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Exports                      263.1     187.3     178.5      140.8          Total outstanding & Disbursed              19.9
of which:  Petroleum     263.1      187.3     178.5     140.8
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (12/31/1978) (Million US$)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                 IBRD
Through - 1978                                                                 Outstanding & Disbursecd          106.8
US $ 1.00 = B/. 1.00                                                          Undisbursed                         93.2
B/. 1.00 = US$ 1.00                                                           Outstanding incl. Undieibursed    200.0
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods, non-Factor Services and workers' remittances. Ratio for 1978 distorted
by large debt refinancing.
2. Net foreign transactions of      banking system.
3/ Excludes sale of bunker oil.
4/ Includes earnings of Panamanians who work in the Canal Zone.
3/ Panama uses U.S. currency and has no Central Bank of issue and no identifiable foreign reserves.
not available
not applicable
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA
A.   STATEMENT OF LOANS (as of October 31, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan                                                              (less cancellations)
Number        Year         Borrower              Purpose           Amount   Undisbursed
8 loans    (1953-72)       Fully disbursed                          83.4           _
901-PAN       1973        BNP                Livestock Credit       4.7           .6
948-PAN       1974        IRHE               Power                 30.0          1.7
1114-PAN       1975       APN                 Fishing Port          24.0          1.0
1280-PAN       1976        IDAAN              Water Supply
and Sewerage       12.0          9.6
1397-PAN       1977        BNP                Livestock Credit       8.0          7.5
1398-PAN       1977        BNP                Fisheries Credit       7.5          6.5
1470-PAN       1977        IRHE               Power                 42.0         40.5
1565-PAN       1978        Republic           Highway
of Panama          Maintenance         12.0         12.0
1641-PAN       1978        COFINA             Industrial Credit   15.0           15.0
1672-PAN       1979        BNP                Tropical Tree
Crop Dev.          19.0         19.0
Total (less cancellations)                          257.6        113.4
of which has been repaid                          27.2
Total now outstanding                               230.4
Amount Sold                         9.2
of which has been repaid          6.5               2.7
Total now held by Bank                              227.7
Total undisbursed                                                113.4
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                       Loan    Equity   Total
1971        Corporacion de Desarrollo Hotelero               1.2      0.3       1.5
1978        Vidrios Panamenos, S.A.                          2.4      1.4       3.8
1979        Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones, S.A.                              -      2.5      2.5
Total gross commitments                         3.6      4.2       7.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, and sales                         0.3      0.0      0.3
Total commitments now held by IFC               3.3      4.2       7.5
Total undisbursed                                -       0.3       0.3



- 23 -
MANEX II
Page 2 of 5
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 901:       Livestock Development Project; US$4.7 Million Loan of
June 8, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project finances cattle enterprises, including land reform settlements
involved in dairying, beef breeding and fattening, and technical services.
A study, financed under the loan, of the livestock potential in the
Atlantic Coast region has been completed. Commitments lagged behind
appraisal estimates, due mainly to initial delays in organizing the project
unit. The loan has now been fully committed and the project is expected to
be completed by mid-1980. Preliminary analysis of 17 project farms indi-
cates a favorable impact on technical coefficients of production and income.
Loan 948:       Third Power Project; US$30 Million Loan of December 4, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is designed to integrate three of the four isolated major
regional electricity systems into a national grid. The project includes
diesel generating plants totalling 28 MW (San Francisco diesels); 230 kV
transmission lines and associated substations; a load dispatch center; 115 kV
subtransmission lines and substations, distribution, and consulting services.
All major project items are completed. A minor portion of the subtrans-
mission lines and substations are still under construction and will be
completed by mid-1980. Delays in the project are largely due to initial
delays in engineering, bidding and procurement. Project costs are currently
estimated at 27 percent above appraisal estimates in large part due to infla-
tion.
Loan 1114:      Fishing Port Project; US$24 Million Loan of May 27, 1975;
Closing Date: January 30, 1980.
The project consists of construction of a new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte
on the Pacific. The port was formally inaugurated on August 14, 1979 for the
tuna operations. The shrimp plants to operate in the port, will be transferred
from Panama city in March 1980, before the 1980 shrimp trawling season opens.
Disbursements are expected to be completed in January 1980, only four months
behind appraisal estimates. Project costs are estimated at 20 percent above
appraisal estimates. The project still yields a satisfactory economic rate
of return.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Loan 1280:      Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$12 Million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project includes: improvement of the distribution faciliLies in the
low-income district of El Chorrillo in Panama City; construction of a water
treatment plant to serve Colon; improvement of the water treatment plant of
the City of Chorrera; provision of water to the town of Arraijan and the
fishing port of Vacamonte; purchase and installation of 30,000 water meters;
technical assistance to improve the organization of IDAAN and to installa new
commercial system. Project execution has been slower than estimated at
appraisal due in part to changes in the management of the borrower (first
change immediately after loan signing in 1977 and second change in October
1978 with the new government). As a result of the changes, there were
delays in the selection of the consultants to carry out the engineering of the
Colon treatment plant and the rehabilitation of the Chorrera treatment plant,
the largest components of the project. Contracts for the Colon and Chorrera
components have been let and construction has now started. The expected
improvements in the commercial system have been started: asset valuation
has been completed and the billing and collection system will be changed
substantially by the end of the year. The company is financially sound,
largely as a result of substantial increases in water rates in 1976 and
1977.
Loan 1397:    Second Livestock Project; US$8 million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: August 31, 1982.
Panama (BNP).
The project includes financing for small and medium scale milk producers;
to a state-owned farm (Programa Integral de Rio Hato--PRODEHIRA) for live-
stock breeding facilities, and technical assistance. The project started
slowly due in part to changes required in milk legislation and staff changes
in the project unit. Changes in the milk legislation involve a modification
in the method of determining the price paid to producers; the price of milk
is now determined by the building standards of the farms; the modified legis-
lation will require that producers be paid according to the quality of milk
produced. The legislation was approved last year and the Government is taking
steps to ensure its implementation. The Bank was informed earlier this year
that the Government has decided to change the organization of PRODEHIRA, and
informed the Bank of its proposal to locate the PRODEIRHA project in five
different state farms. This proposal is under review. Loan commitments for
the small and medium scale milk producers, the most important component of the
project, are proceeding on schedule.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan 1398:      Second Fisheries Project; US$7.5 million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project includes the construction of ten new purse seiners, the replace-
ment of five obsolete shrimp trawlers by five new boats, the rehabilitation
of ten wooden shrimp trawlers; the relocation of six shrimp processing
plants to the new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte; the development: of fresh
water fish and oyster farms, and technical assistance. The contract for
the purchase of the purse seiners has been awarded and the boats have been
delivered. The fresh water fish and oyster farming components are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1470:     Fourth Power (Fortuna Hydroelectric) Project:  US$42 million
of July 1, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project, cofinanced by the IDB (US$98 million) and suppliers, consists of
the construction of the 255 MW Fortuna Hydroelectric Project, and associated
transmission as well as technical assistance for organizational improvement
and a training program for the Borrower. The underground civil works, which
are being financed by the IDB, are underway. The contract for tbLe main gene-
rating equipment, which is being financed with credits from suppliers, has
been awarded (Skanska-Sweden) and procurement for the dam and diversion works,
which will be financed by the Bank, is now almost completed. The project is
still expected to be commissioned by mid-1983 as estimated at appraisal. The
organization and training programs, being financed by the Bank, are expected
to be completed in mid-1981.
Loan 1565:     Highway Maintenance Project:  US$12 million loan of June 30,
1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project finances equipment, spare parts and technical assistance required
to implement a four-year maintenance program which would strengthen the main-
tenance capability of the Ministry of Public Works. The project is about six
months behind schedule due mainly to the changes, in October 1978, in the
hierarchy of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) which resulted in the halting
of the process of selection of a consulting firm in favor of contracting
individual consulting experts, a problem which has now been substantially
resolved.
Loan 1641:     Development Banking Project:  US$15 million loan of January 23,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project would help finance the estimated foreign exchange component of
subloans and equity investments for the acquisition of fixed assets and perm-
anent working capital by productive private and public sector enterprises in
the manufacturing, service and tourism sectors. The loan only became effective
on September 25, 1979 because of delays in reducing COFINA's exposure in
several enterprises to the limits stipulated in COFINA's Policy Statement.
The problem has now been resolved, subloan commitments have caught up with
appraisal estimates, and it is expected that the loan will be disbursed on
schedule.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1672: Tropical Tree Crop Development Project: US$19 million loan of
April 25, 1979; Closing Date, June 30, 1985.
The project consists of (i) long-term financing for the renovation of
1,500 ha of coffee; (ii) 600 ha and the planting of an additional 1,900 ha
of cocoa; (iii) the planting of 1,000 ha of bananas on land worked by
three agrarian reform groups; (iv) the planting of 3,000 ha of oil palm
principally on land worked by agrarian reform groups and the construction
the first stage of an oil processing plant; and (v) consulting services to
assist and train local coffee, cocoa and oil palm technicians and to assist
in operating an evaluation system to assess the impact of the cocoa and coffee
programs.  The coffee and cocoa components are proceeding satisfactorily.  The
banana and oil palm components have suffered small delays because of a change
in management in one of the key implementing organizations, the Banana Corpora-
tion of the Pacific.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation - Preappraisal
(1)  Project prepared by:  IRHE with the assistance of
Hydro Quebec (Canada) - February 1978 to April 1978
(2) Initial request for Bank financing: January 1978
(3) First Bank mission to consider project: April 1978
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure:  May 1979
(c)  Negotiations Completed:  November 6, 1979
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:  March 1980
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
III. Special Conditions
a)   IRHE to earn an 8.75 percent rate of return on revalued assets
in 1980. This figure would be maintained thereafter and would
be reviewed if an event takes place which in the opinion of the
Bank or IRHE, has or will substantially change the company's
financial position.  A revised rate of return would take into
account the need for IRHE (i) to earn a reasonable return on its
investment, including an adequate future level of self financing,
and (ii) to set tariffs for the sale of electricity not lower than
the long-term marginal cost of supplying it. Initiation of tariff
increases which would enable IRHE to earn an 8.75 percent rate
of return in 1980 is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (paras. 42, 43 and 53);
b)   IRHE would increase its subtransmission and distribution design and
construction capability by September 1980 and by December 1981,
respectively (para. 47);
c)   IRHE would not sell electricity to bulk consumers at rates lower
than the marginal cost of supplying such electricity (para. 28);
d)   IRHE would limit the level of its short-term debt to one-fifth
of its cash operating, maintenance and administrative expenses
during the preceding 12-month period and would not incur debt
of more than one-year maturity without the Bank's agreement if
its internal cash generation covers less than 1.4 times its
maximum future debt service (para. 45);



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
e)   IRHE will continue to revalue its fixed assets on the basis
of a method satisfactory to the Bank (para. 43);
f)   IRHE would not, until the project has been completed, undertake
or permit to be undertaken on its behalf, any new major expansion
project, other than those included in an agreed-upon program,
without the Bank's concurrence (para. 25);
g)   IRHE would seek to maintain no more than 60 days of electricity
billings outstanding and the Government would take all reasonable
action to cause its agencies and political subdivisions to pay
their electricity bills no later than 60 days after billing
(para. 46).



COSTA  RICA
Ž5
Ž5   -< ,  ,                                        -fi .t     -;I 
1!0; ::                                              .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~~~~~~3
UV
-a                '1                                                        (Ž5 1zf ! gN          t ;        
Ž5 e5           ii          o         ,       42}                  $  
/5  i          r7              2                   <       i           iX
Ž5  ~~~  'Ž5Ž                   af           .5f  ===-ff=0
> ~ -w                              .
0        Ž5



