Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20725
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-3 1410)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11 MILLION
(US$ 15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR
AN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
July 19, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 590 = US$ 1
US$ 1 = SDR 0.7372
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CET                   Common External Tariff
EMRSO                 Economic Management Refonn Support Operation
ERC                   Economic Recovery Credit
DGI                   Direction Generale des Imp6ts
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
HIPC                  Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IDA                   International Development Agency
IMF                   International Monetary Fund
MIGA                  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF                   Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTEF                  Medium Term Expenditure Framework
PASA                  Programme d'Ajustement du Sector Agricole
PER                   Public Expenditure Review
PFP                   Policy Framework Paper
SAC                   Structural Adjustment Credit
SECAL                 Sector Adjustment Loan
SSA                   Sub Saharan Africa
SYGADE                Systeme de Gestion Automatisee de la Dette
SYGASPE               Systeme Integre de Gestion Administrative et Salariale des Personnels de 1' Etat
TF                    Trust Fund
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
VAT                   Value Added Tax
WAEMU                 West African Economic and Monetary Union
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:    Charles Humpphreys
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Celestin Monga



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 8
6. Sustainability                                                                     8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   10
9. Partner Conmnents                                                                 11
10. Additional Information                                                           19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 23
Anex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ProjectID: P058282                                         Project Name: ECONOMIC MGMT REFORM
Team Leader: Celestin Monga                               TL Unit: AFTM4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: Julv 19, 2000
1. Project Data
ATame: ECONOMIC MGMT REFORM                          L/CITFNumber: IDA-31410
Countrv/Department: BURKINA FASO                                         Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: KN - Macro/Non-Trade
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/15/1998                               Effective:  12/29/98
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                                MTR:
Approval:  11/05/1998                               Closing: 06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: BURKINA FASO/THE MINISTRY OF ECONOMY; BURKINA
FASO/PLANNING AND FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                            Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:     Hasan Tuluy                                Hasan Tuiuy
Sector Manager:       Charles Humphreys                         Charles Hurnphreys
Teanm Leader at ICR:   Celestin Monga                           Miguel Saponara
ICR Primary Author:   Jerome F. Chevallier;
Jean-Claude Tchatchouang
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory,S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory,HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unhkely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HIU=Highly Unsatisfactory,H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N--Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
BankPerformance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Rationale and Objective of the Economic Management Reform Support Operation (EMRSO).
The overall objective of the credit was to help Burkina Faso to partially offset the reduction of revenue
resulting from the adoption of the new CET regime, while other reforms in revenues and expenditures were
to restore relative fiscal stability. The credit would also provide support to the Govemment's efforts to
improve revenue mobilization from resources other than trade taxes, and achieve improved prograrnming
and management of public expenditures, in particular, in the social sectors and poverty reduction programs.
Consistent with Bank policy governing adjustment lending (R96-55, R80-122), the credit rationale
was to smooth the transitional cost of structural reforms. It was determined that without extemal financing
the revenues lost due to substantial reduction in extemal tariffs and the temporary disruptions associated
with the implementation of the WAEMU's new CET would lead to insufficient funding for the social
sectors, lower levels of investment, and lower living standards and future growth. In helping to mitigate
these costs, the EMRSO would contribute to the social sustainability of reform programs.
The proposed credit was an integral part of the Bank's strategy to assist Burkina Faso in
maintaining macroeconomic stability and financial sustainability, and in gaining competitiveness. The
policy measures supported by the credit were considered essential to the enhancement of Burkina Faso's
growth prospects. The reforms were also necessary to create an environment conducive to private
sector-led economic growth while helping to ensure an orderly transition toward greater regional and global
integration. Also, by focusing on revenue mobilization and the reallocation of public resources towards two
priority areas, namely education and health, the operation was expected to ensure that these two key sectors
would not suffer from budgetary cuts during the transition period and to have a direct and positive impact
on poverty alleviation.
Design. The EMRSO credit was a well-prepared adjustment operation designed on the High
Impact Adjustment Lending model of the Africa Region. It was proposed as both a one-tranche operation
and the first of a series of such operations related to up-front policy reforms to be implemented prior to
Board presentation.
Specific policy actions supported by the EMRSO included:
*      lowering the maximum tariff rate from 31 percent to 25 percent;
*      lowering the statistical tax from 6 percent to 4 percent;
*      abolishing the special intervention tax;
*      finalizing the automation of the customs-clearance procedures for imports;
issuing the list of public enterprises to be privatized/liquidated;
*     issuing budget guidelines for the preparation of the 1999 budget, including sectoral targets for
health and education;
*      strengthening public expenditure programming and management, particularly in the social and
basic infrastructure sectors;
*      finalizing the computerization of six additional border customs offices; and
*      introducing withholding tax at customs and on purchases from wholesalers to be applied
against the profit tax.
The use of a single tranche operation was justified by Burkina Faso's good track record in
-2 -



implementation and the coherent medium-term program for public finance reform. The main advantage of
single-tranching with ex-ante conditionality was that it enhanced political acceptability of the reform
program. It was expected that, after one or two of such operations, the Govemment would be able to
formulate comprehensive medium-term programs in key sectors that could be supported either by ordinary
multi-tranche adjustment operations or by a progressive shift to budgetary support. To guard against the
risk of launching a series of one-tranche operations with different focuses, which would eventually lead to a
reform process lacking coherence, the EMRSO also provided a clear indication of links with future
adjustment operations. Policy areas to be covered in the follow-up credit (SAC III) were identified, and the
progress benchmarks expected to precede it were identified. A medium-term policy matrix was attached to
the Board document.
The four triggers for proceeding with another single tranche adjustment operation were defined as
"substantial progress" in the following policy areas:
(i) adoption of a medium-term expenditure framework for the six key ministries identified in the 1999
budget guidelines, and completion of a thorough public expenditure review in education and health
(according to the agreed steps and timetable defined during negotiations);
(ii) implementation of the newly adopted "reform of the state" consistent with the MTEF approach,
especially its provisions on the decentralization of the use of a share of public resources, local
recruitment for contractual positions in education and health, and merit-based promotion system at the
national level (steps and timetable defined during negotiations);
(iii) implementation of the rural development strategy currently under preparation (steps and timetable
defined during negotiations),
(iv) implementation of the privatization program as of December 1998, according to the schedule in the
Policy Framework Paper for 1998-2000.
The main risk facing the program was identified as political: the reform agenda proposed for a
relatively short period of time could encounter some political resistance heightened by the presidential
elections, scheduled for November 1998.
The operation was prepared over a seven-month period. The borrower's input was substantial, as the
Government carried out several studies and public finance management and tax exemption prior to the
appraisal mission. The Bank also provided background analytical work on the budgetary implications of
the regional integration process for Burkina Faso.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives remained unchanged and project design was not modified.
3.3 Original Components:
The reform program supported by EMRSO had three major elements: (1) public finance reform, including
progress towards the convergence to a Common External Tariff (CET), which was to be introduced on
January 1, 2000 by all members of WAEMU; (ii) rationalization of public expenditure management and
strengthening of public adrninistration; and (iii) continued implementation of public enterprise reform.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not modified.
-3 -



3.5 Quality at Enl?y:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory. EMRSO had a narrow objective, which was directly linked to the
post-devaluation country assistance strategy (1994) emphasizing economic stabilization and to the 1996
CAS. EMRSO was fully justified because without budget support, Burkina Faso would not have been able
to reduce its custom duties in preparation for closer regional economic integration, which was an important
aspect of its development strategy as stated in the 1998-2000 PFP.
The design of EMRSO took into account the lessons from previous adjustment lending in Burkina Faso.
One of the lessons from the 1991-94 SAC I and ERC experience is that single tranche adjustment
operations may be more suited to a country like Burkina Faso, where capacity for implementing reforms is
weak, and political opposition to important elements of the reform program lingers. Unexpected difficulties
in specific reform areas slowed down the whole reform process in the case of SAC I, which was a
comprehensive and ambitious undertaking. On the other hand, the success of the ERC, a single tranche
operation, was largely due to its simple design. Accordingly, the Bank opted for a series of single tranche
adjustment credits to underpin an expanded structural reform program described in the 1998-2000 PFP.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome,/achievement of objective:
The program successfully achieved its objectives and has maintained them after the closing date (June
1999). This assessment is based on the following factors:
* the new CET with lower external tariffs was successfully introduced on January 1, 2000 and all
members of WAEMU, including Burkina Faso, have implemented it;
* the EMRSO helped offset the loss of revenues resulting from the lowering of custom duties and the
financial gap was timely funded; and
* the EMRSO has stimulated the Govenmment's commitment to pursue public finance reform; as a result,
total Govemment revenue as a percentage of GDP has increased steadily since 1997.
The four triggers for proceeding with another single tranche adjustment operation were met, as
described below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Public Finance.
The performance of Govemment finance in 1998 was consistent with program  targets, especially
conceming revenue. Total revenue amounted to CFAF 199 billion (13.1 percent of GDP), exceeding the
program's objective of 13 percent of GDP. Government revenue increased to 13.5 percent of GDP in 1999
(15 percent, including taxes paid by the treasury related to public investment activities), compared with a
program target of 14.3 percent of GDP.
Rating: Achievement of the Public Finance component was fully satisfactory.
- 4 -



Box 1. Key Fiscal Refomns Under IDA - and Fund-Supported Programis, 1997-2000
Actioni                                                                    Status
Fiscal reforms
Introduce WAEMU's product classification                                   Done in April 1999
Eliminate special intervention tax and introduce WAEMUs CET,               Done, Rate reduced to 20 percent in January 2000
lowering maximum tariff rate from 37 percent to 25 percent
Eliminate special VAT payment procedures for importers of raw              Done
materials and for enterprises registered under the investment code
Eliminate all remaining exeviptions on public coCtracts and enhance        Done in June 1999
monitoring of taxation  for foreign-financed proAe    fes
Complete computerization of tax revenue collection, enhance monitoring    Done in 1999
of large enterprises, and iniProve recovery from defaulters
Introduce a withholding tax at sourcu on imports and purchases from        Done in January 2000
wholesalers and producers
Introduce a withholding tax at source on  ayment for services              Done in January 2000
Reduce the business 4rofit tax from 40 percentto 35 percent                Done in 2000
Computerize wage and public investment expenditure                         Ong6ing
Conducst review ofpublic invest6.ent                                       Conducted in 1998-99
Ht3nnonize .the budgetary systemn within the WAEMU framnework              Done
Table 1e Burkira Faso: output and Publc Finance Indicators, 1996-2002
1996    1997        1998              1999              2000         2001
Eat.     Prog.  Est.        Prog     Est.   porno    pRw.e    Proj
(Annual pei cetage changed a  unless oth.nrwiie sp12 2f1ed)
GDP and pnoces
GDP al constalt prnces                                         6.0      4 8      6-2      6.2      5.3      5.8      5 7     5.7       6.6
GDP deraior                                                    4.2      2 2  -  -32  -.8  -2       1.7    -1.4      - 5      2 0       2.3
Consumer price(arutual avera3ge)                               6.1      2 3      2.5      5.0      2.3     -1.      1S      l.S       2.0
Consumer plnces (ded fipd)                                     6.9     -0.1      2.5      1.0      2.3      0.7    1-5        2   04    0
Cenrtal govelrimnal fblance3
Reenueall                                                     12.3    13.1      13,0     13.1     14,3     15.0     137      1414     14.5
Domestic pnmau y exnenditioreiadanetlanding                   10 7     11.9     12a2     12.6     14n1     14.7    139       1;9 1i.
Overall dsca balance, enueding grtnes                        -9.0    -1 0.2    -1s 0 3  -9 S     -10.0 -c12s3 -i 0.4 -s1 e0          -9 7
overall fuscal balst, including gtoss 2                       -0.6     -3 2     -3fu     -2.9 Au6          -3.4    -5 1      -3 0     -3.5
Primary balance (dficit .)3/                                   1 7      1 1      ns 9      s       0 2      0.t    -0 2       0 4      0.S
cuirrent primary balance 31                                    3.0      4 0      3 .S    3.6       4.2      4cS      3 9     4 3       4.9
Nominal GDP (in billimesof CFA ftancs)                        1,29S    1,390    I,S1S    1,s22    1,629    1,589    1,74S    1.713    1.869
sources: Buddacat,6 authonitiw3; and staffestinate3 and pnj.etionst
1/ From 1999 on, revenue includes taxes paidby conitractors on fomegnl-firianced public investments rising checks issued by the treaury,
for an arn.unt eq,wvrdent to about l S percent or GDP,
2/ For the pwjection ye.rr t999-2002, the grans expected to cover the financing gap at not included.
31 C omnnitment bist, -xcuding grants and boraign-finanecd prolects.
Public Expenditure Management and Public Administration.
Data indicate that efforts have been successful in redirecting domestic resources toward human
capital formation. However, the bias introduced by recent large, foreign-financed, infrastructure projects
has limited the increase in the share of social sectors in total expenditure. In 1999, current expenditures
were broadly in line with program targets, despite a wage bill, which was about 6 percent higher than
initially expected, mostly due to the wage scale adopted in January 1999 when the new merit-based
promotion system was introduced. Progress was achieved in reallocating spending toward social sectors.
On a commitment basis, excluding common budgetary expenditures,but including foreign-financed capital
expenditures, the share of expenditures on primary education in total budget expenditures increased from 9
percent in 1996 to 11.5 percent in 1998, thereby reaching the program target. However, the ratio declined
to  10.8 percent in 1999, reflecting the large spending in infrastructure investment for other sectors.
- 5-



Excluding foreign-financed investment, progress was more marked, as the share of expenditures on primary
education increased from 14.5 percent in 1996/97 to 16.9 percent in 1999. For health, the share over total
expenditures remained stable over the period when foreign-financed investment is included. The share,
excluding foreign-financed investment, increased however from 11.3 percent in 1996 to 13.9 percent in
1999.
In confonmity with the action plan presented in the policy matrix of the EMRSO, the authorities
have greatly improved their budgeting and expenditure practices over the past years. A comprehensive
public expenditure review in 1995 and a public expenditure incidence analysis in the education, health, and
water sectors in 1996 and 1997 contributed to the understanding of equity issues, although not of the
rationale and efficiency of expenditures in those sectors. Following the adoption of the HIPC Decision
Point document of the original HIPC Initiative in November 1997 and the EMRSO by the Boards of the
Bank and the Fund, the Govermment defined budgetary monitoring indicators; adopted a programn for
regular consultations between the Bank and the authorities on all budgetary issues; and established a
multi-year program to enhance staff capabilities on PER-related matters. An interministerial committee was
set up to coordinate the subsequent work on public expenditure management.
As a result of these efforts, the 1999, 2000, and 2001 budget guidelines were significantly improved: in
conformity with the HIPC social targets, the share of actual public expenditure for health and education in
the budget has increased; a shift to performance budgeting was made for six key ministries (Health,
Finance, Interior, Defense, Basic Education, and Secondary/Technical education), with outcome indicators
to monitor efficiency, and increased accountability for line managers. A Medium-Tenm Expenditure
Framework for 2001-2003 is currently under preparation. It will be presented to Parliament in October
2000 with the 2001 budget bill.
More work is still needed to analyze the reasons for Burkina Faso 's inefficiency of public spending in
relation to comparable poor countries (service quality is low, unit costs high and outcomes disappointing).
The Government recognizes this weakness and completed in late 1999 and early 2000 a series of PER
studies in social sectors. Findings of these studies should guide Government efforts in the context of the
implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). A Participatory Poverty Assessment
(PPA) is also to be designed to shed light on issues of expenditure efficiency from the point of view of
beneficiairies.
Implementation of the public administration reform approved in 1998 has progressed well. The
merit-based promotion system is being gradually extended to all ministries. In the education and health
sectors, contractuals are being recruited locally, which should enable the two concemed ministries to extend
their reach at a lower unit cost. A study is underway to explore practical steps for an efficient
decentralization of public spending.
Rating: Achievement of the Public Expenditure Management and Public Administration component is rated
satisfactory.
Box 2. Civil Service Reform
Approve and implemeni law on civil service end-1998  Approved in April 1998, and entered into force end-1998
Approve and implemeni master plan for institutional refornis and
modernization of public administration including:
Introduction of merit-based promotion system       Done in January 1999
Larger recourse to contractual staff               Ongoing since 1999
Approve law on decentralization and deconcertration   Done in December 1998. Implementation ongoing
Introduce a single personnel file, encompassing those of the Ministries of Done in March 2000
Finance and of the Civil Service
-6 -



Public Enterprise Reform.
Implementation of the public enterprise reform component was slower than expected. The 1998
tranche of the program was not fully implemented according to the schedule in the policy matrix. The
liquidation of five public enterprises was delayed, as well as the call for bids for the hotel company. The
1999 tranche was also delayed. The preparatory work for the telecommunications regulatory framework
was not initiated on time, making it impossible to grant cellular telephone licenses before the end of 1999.
A regulatory agency for the telecommunications sector was put in place in October 1999, but the
recruitment of the investment bank expected to bring ONATEL, the telecommunications company, to the
point of sale was not achieved in 1999. The liquidation of FASO FANI, a textiles company, was not
completed. The privatization of Air Burkina was further delayed. Finally, the strategic study on the
remaining portfolio was not launched in 1999.
Rating: On the basis of the above, despite progress made in several areas, achievement of the public
enterprise component is rated unsatisfactory.
Box 3. Progress on Public Enterprise Reforms and Privalization
Strengthen institutional framework for privatization, so as to speed up    Done
process
Comnplete ongoing privatization of 41 enterprises
Privatize 21 enterprises                            Done
Put up for sale or liquidate by Dec. 1997 8 enterprises  Done
Put remaining 12 enterprises up for sale by March 1998  Done with some delays
Review the strategy for the remaining enterprises in government portfolio  Done
Select four new companies for privatization in 1998    Done
In teleconmmunications,
grant two cellular phone licenses, and              Done in April 2000
operationalize regulatory agency                    Done in March 2000
Approve privatization and liberalization of energy sector  Done
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional developmient impact:
Implementation of the reform program supported by EMRSO has contributed to a modest development of
institutions so far. However, it has laid the bases for a major overhaul of public administration, which is a
prerequisite for a sound development of institutions in the public sector. Under the ongoing reform of
public administration, the stage has been set for linking budget allocations and staff promotions to
performance. Steps have been taken to modernize personnel management in several ministries. The budget
process is becoming more results-oriented with the introduction of a rolling Medium Term Expenditure
Framework.
On the decentralisation agenda, a general framework was adopted in the 1998 law, which created some
independent local govemments: the province (45) and the city ('commune"). A first set of urban
communes and all provinces have been identified by the law. Villages, i.e. communities that will not be
able to become a commune, will be administrative entities within the administrative province, under the
- 7 -



direct control of the State representative (High Commissioner). The law provides explicitly for the creation
of additional communes, in urban and rural zones, if these can present a sustainable budget. Devolution of
powers from the State to local governments has been outlined, but is not effective yet. The State retains
control on these entities, ex-ante or ex-post, depending on the instance, notably on financial matters. The
1998 law provides that decentralization will be effective in 2003. As a first major step to make
decentralization work, the Government is currently reviewing the necessary changes in budget management
and procedures that would allow provinces, and cities to effectively function as autonomous entities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governmnent or implementing agency:
Besides the usual impact of climatic variations, no particular factor outside the control of Government
directly affected implementation of the program or its outcome. The risk related to a possible decline of
exports due to unfavorable commodity prices or short-temi economic evolution in East Asia did not
materialize.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The political situation in Burkina Faso deteriorated following the death of a joumalist at the end of 1998.
A report by an independent commission implicated people close to the President, including members of
presidential security forces. The Govemment was slow in taking action, which unleashed demonstrations
and civil unrest in some urban areas. Its credibility in implementing reforms, particularly those aimed at
improving governance, was somewhat undermined in late 1998 and in early 1999.
In May 1999, the Government issued a major study on the long-term sources of growth and the
competitiveness of the Burkinabe economy. The study was prepared by a local team with help from
international consultants. It showed that serious constraints were hampering development, including a low
degree of openness, high input and factor due to inefficient public monopolies, and low labor productivity
due to poor education and health indicators.
The study served as the basis of a workshop on competitiveness held in Ouagadougou in May 1999 with
the participation of the Government, the Bank, donors, the private sector and civil society. A very lively
and candid discussion ensued at the workshop, which proved to be a very successful forum for all
stakeholders to debate issues the country is facing and ways to address them. Following the workshop, the
Minister of Economy and Finance presented the findings at a special full day cabinet meeting convened by
the Head of State. Beyond its policy findings and conclusions, the study has demonstrated the benefit of a
participatory process where civil society can play a critical role in defining the development agenda.
Fostering such a process gives all stakeholders the opportunity to develop ownership and commitment to
the necessary reforms. It has led to a much more dynamic and transparent environment in developing the
CAS under preparation, a new private sector development strategy and the Government's Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable
5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable
6. Sustainability
61 Rationale for sustainability rating:
-8 -



The sustainability of the reform program supported by EMIIRSO is likely In previous phases of
the public finance reform program, ownership was weak, resulting in long delays in the implementation of
difficult measures. The organization and functioning of the civil service remained in large part influenced
by Burkina Faso's socialist past. The EMRSO and the subsequent adjustment operation (SAC III) have
contributed to improve the policy dialogue with the Bank. The influence of reformers in Government has
been reinforced by success in the implementation of the WAEMU's CET. While it is highly unlikely that
any future Government would take steps to undo the reforms already in place, implementation of the
remaining structural reform agenda will be a test of the country's leadership and willingness to adopt
policies needed to sustain growth and significantly reduce poverty, such as adopting education and health
policies to raise human capital, improving the business environment, developing infrastructures to decrease
input and transaction costs.
Overall, budget management is becoming more results-oriented with the introduction of a rolling
three-year MTEF. However, sustainability of the public finance reform program in Burkina Faso also
hinges on the country's capacity to attract foreign aid and to generate increased exports and Government
revenues needed to fund the important expenditure program ahead.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A third structural adjustment operation in an amount of SDR 18 million (US$ 25 million) was
approved by the Bank Board in December 1999. The reform program supported by the new operation had
four major elements: (i) establishing a tax-friendly business environment through the further lowering of
tax ant tariff rates; (ii) improving the efficiency of public expenditure by extending the MTEF to new
sectors; (iii) increasing the transparency of budgetary procedures; and (iv) enhancing competitiveness
through an appropriate regulatory framework for utilities, including telecommunications. These elements
are very much in line with the medium-term reform program laid down in the EMRSO policy matrix.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance from identification to completion was satisfactory The reform program supported by
the EMRSO was formulated through intensive consultations between the Government, the IMF and the
Bank. The Bank team effectively assisted the Borrower in identifying the main policy issues and in
designing the reform program to address them.
As described earlier, the team also took into account lessons from previous experience in single
tranche operations.
7.2 Supervision:
During program implementation, the Bank maintained a close dialogue with the Borrower and its
main partners. Bank staff visited Burkina Faso five times in 1999 to supervise program implementation,
participate in the public expenditure review and prepare the following adjustment operation. The Bank
helped Government officials realize that in the absence of vigorous reforms, Burkina Faso would not make
significant progress in alleviating poverty. Through its policy dialogue, the Bank also carefully nurtured
ownership of the reform program in the country and contributed to raising awareness of the challenges and
opportunities of regional integration.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Rating: Based on the above, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory
-9-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance in the preparation of the operation was satisfactor.y The Ministry of Economy
and Finance funded several important background analytical work and study tours in the United States and
in Ghana for its core team, This helped prepare the reform program and the key policy measures supported
by EMRSO.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the Government has shown strong commitment to the reform program, despite delays in
the implementation of the public enterprise component. The Government performed well on the
macroeconomic stabilization front, as well as in the implementation of policy measures to improve public
expenditure management and public administration. The Government also implemented all the reform
measures specified in their Letter of Development Policy, albeit with some delays in the privatization
program. There was a strong ownership of reforms supported by EMRSO by the Minister of Economy and
Finance and strong support by key sectoral ministries and some other donors (IMF, European Union,
Switzerland, and the Netherlands). The EMRSO accounts are currently being audited in the framework of
the preparation of the 1998 budget execution report.
7.6 Imnplementing Agencv:
Performance of the implementation units was adequate. The three major divisions in the Ministry of
Economy and Finance in charge of the project (Secretariat Technique pour la Coordination des
Programmes de Developpement Economique et Social, the Direction Generale des Imp6ts, and the
Direction Generale du Budget) achieved their goals as stated in the program.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rating: Overall, Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Two key lessons leamed from the design and implementation of the EMRSO are: (i) the timing for
disbursement has to be consistent with the Government budget cycle and its financial plan; and (ii) donor
practices that tend to favor project financing outside the Government budget must evolve.
Timing. External financial assistance is more effective when made at the beginning of
Government's fiscal year, so that the support is known in advance to be available and can be used as a
basis for making domestic budget management more predictable. Single-tranche operations are efficient
and effective, but should be tied more to the budget cycle as their purpose, in this case, was to provide
compensatory financing for a reform program that was well defined in advance. The EMRSO, approved on
November 5, 1998, was for an amount of SDR 11 million (US15 million equivalent). It was declared
effective immediately and the single tranche was released in December 1998. The credit was mostly used to
finance the end-of the year financial gap. Adjustment operations would be more effective if the financial
resources were made available to the Government at the beginning of their fiscal year and included in
budgetary planning.
Project Financing. Public financial management reform, which was central to the EMRSO, is
limited by donor practices of tying their financing to specific projects that are administered outside the
usual budgetary system, and which transit through the investment budget. Such practices tend to delay the
move towards performance budgeting, and help eliminate distortions created by the current dual budgeting
system, where donor-funded projects drain capacity away from the Government.
- 10-



The decision to channel a larger share of Bank assistance through the budget, coupled with an
intensified dialogue on public finance management and the use of public funds, may help improve the
budget process substantially. This approach would require, as a foundation: (i) a set of well prepared
program budgets in all key sectors (education, health, rural development, and infrastructures) within a
medium-term expenditure framework which is consistent with Government objectives and priorities; (ii) the
implementation of public finance reforms aiming at improving accountability, and the auditing and
evaluation system; and (iii) Government commitment to delegation of responsibilities, greater
decentralization of budgetary procedures while maintaining sound management of public finance.
Such an approach would be consistent with the PRSP and HIPC Initiatives, as it would help
achieve poverty-oriented results through prioritization of public expenditure and the use of performance
indicators. Consistent with the CDF, budgetary support operations would provide the instrument to link
financial inputs to desired outcomes, and would redirect the Bank's administrative resources towards
strategic advice and knowledge-based assistance.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Below is an implementation report received from the Ministry of Economy and Finance in November 1999.
Implementation Report
6.    The second structural adjustment credit (SAC II, known as EMRSO) for SDR 11 million or
US$15 million), was adopted on November 5, 1998. Its primary objective was to support the country's
global adjustment program described in the 1998-2000 Policy Framework Paper. It was intended to
support Burkina Faso in its West African regional integration process, with the entry into force on January
1, 2000 of a CET [common external tariff] adopted at the level of the WAEMU, and to improve the daily
management of the economy and public finance, in accordance with the medium-term development
prospects defined by the Government in the 1998-2000 PFP. More specifically: (i) the regional integration
component involved adoption of the WAEMU's convergence criteria; and (ii) the component having to do
with management of the economy and public finance involved mobilization of resources, management of
Govemment spending, and improving statistics.
Accomplishment of the Primary Macroeconomic Objectives
*     Restoring Economic Growth
7.    During the 1994-98 period, the macroeconomic objectives were generally achieved. Real GDP
increased at an average annual pace of 3.6 percent from 1985 to 1998, rising from CFAF 663.1 billion to
1,056.3 billion. At first, between 1985 and 1990-91, the performance of the GDP was marked by repeated
phases of growth followed by recession. The economy is highly dependent on the primary sector, mainly
agriculture. During that time, weather conditions were irregular, thereby affecting agricultural production,
and the performance of that sector largely determined the overall growth in GDP.
8.    From 1991 to 1994, the average annual growth rate was 1.3 percent. Although this situation can
be attributed to a gloomy intemational economic environment and unfavorable world prices for raw
materials, the causes were more deep-seated. They include the following: a steady decline in the terms of
trade during this period, reflecting the loss of economic competitiveness; poor implementation of the
reforms required under the Structural Adjustment Program, which also forced the economic system to"
- 11 -



contract"; and most importantly, rumors and expectations of a CFAF devaluation in 1993, which were not
conducive to establishing a climate of confidence for investors. Following the January 1994 devaluation,
real GDP declined by 1.2 percent, reflecting a drop in the secondary sector of 2.4 percent and in the tertiary
sector of 2.7 percent. This reduction was mainly attributed to a contraction in domestic demand linked to
the lower purchasing power of households and to the wait-and-see attitude adopted by economic operators.
9.     Since the devaluation, however, trends seem to point to a growing expansion in GDP, with
increases of 4.1 percent in 1995, 6.2 percent in 1996, 5.5 percent in 1997, and 5.7 percent in 1998.
Although the primary sector continues to be the engine of economic growth, the other two sectors are not
lagging behind.
Price Trends
10.   After the price increase in 1994 due to the mechanical effect of devaluation, the consumer price
index rose at a steady but slackened pace. Inflation was 6.1 percent in 1996, 7.3 percent in 1997, and 4.9
percent in 1998. The 1998 rate can be explained by the 1997 harvest, which was smaller than anticipated
and thus drove up prices of farm products.
*     Public Revenue
11.    Since 1994, Government finance has improved as a result of increased budget revenue and
effective Government spending controls. From 1996 to 1998, current revenue increased by 24 percent, and
the share of tax revenue on average accounted for 92 percent. Despite these promising results, the tax ratio
stagnated at 12 percent of GDP, somewhat higher than in 1990, as did the ratio of the Government's own
revenue to GDP, which stabilized at 13 percent. A change in the structure of tax receipts occurred,
however, as taxes on goods and services went from CFAF 29.9 billion to 54.6 billion between 1996 and
1998, for a 82 percent rise, while taxes on foreign trade increased by only 5.5 percent in those two years.
The increase was irregular to boot, since that revenue rose by 13.6 percent from 1996 to 1997, but then
declined by 5.5 percent in the 1997-98 period. Thus the share of fiscal receipts from international trade
dropped from 50.8 percent to 43.5 percent of fiscal revenue between 1996 and 1998.
12.   Although grants have always been at a relatively high level, averaging 27 percent of total revenue
between 1985 and 1995, with the exception of 1989, their growth was sharpest in 1996 when they soared
by 86.8 percent in comparison to their 1995 level. They accounted for 29.6 percent of total revenue in
1998, as compared to 35.5 percent in 1996. The decline recorded was in grants to the Treasury and not in
project grants, which were 76 percent of the total in 1998, as compared to 69 percent in 1996.
*     Public Expenditures
13.   As for expenditures, a real improvement was not observed until 1994, since between 1990 and
1994, total expenditure rose by 73.4 percent, current expenditure by 54 percent--despite the fact that the
wage bill was brought under control--and capital expenditure climbed by 111 percent. It was not until
1995 that the budget ratios for Government spending showed an improvement. By 1998, the wage bill
accounted' for only 45.5 percent of current expenditure, but this is still higher than the convergence criterion
of the WAEMU, set at a maximum of 40 percent. At the same time, current expenditure went from 11.6
percent of GDP in 1995 to 10.4 percent in 1998.
14.    During the 1996-1998 period, a considerable effort was made to increase capital expenditure
financed from the Government's own resources, from CFAF 15.7 billion to 47.7 billion. As a share of total
- 12 -



investment expenditure, it went from 13 percent to 29 percent between 1996 and 1998, and, expressed as a
percentage of GDP, it moved from 1.3 percent to 3.1 percent. This outcome is attributed to considerable
progress made in budget savings.
15.    Budget savings had declined steadily from 1985 to 1994, from CFAF 14.2 billion, or 2.1 percent
of GDP, to -22.3 billion, or 2.2 percent of GDP. From 1995 to 1998, however, budget savings rose from
0.6 percent to 2.7 percent of GDP. As for the Government deficit on cash basis, the growth from CFAF
15.1 billion to CFAF 46.5 billion between 1996 and 1998 is due to the evolution of capital expenditures,
which recorded increases of 26.7 percent in 1997, and 10.8 percent in 1998, and to constant efforts to
reduce payment arrears.
*     Public Debt and PavmentArrears
16.    The outstanding debt has increased steadily since 1985, and even though it went down by 2.5
percent in 1998, it is still at around 52.4 percent of GDP, that is, CFAF 793.1 billion, as compared to 178
billion in 1985. This reflects an average increase in the outstanding debt of more than 12 percent a year.
Burkina Faso, however, has received several large debt cancellations: one involving CFAF 660.2 billion in
1989 under the Dakar initiative; and another one valued at 70 billion following the devaluation, part of the
Dakar II initiative. Between 1995 and 1998, the average annual growth rate was 4.1 percent for the
external debt and 7.5 percent for the internal debt.
17.    Despite fluctuations due to various debt reschedulings, the debt service to GDP ratio increased by
an average of 7.8 percent a year from 1985 to 1998, evolving at a slower pace than the outstanding debt.
Borrowing terms have evolved in the direction of more concessionary loans. The debt service did not
exceed 3 percent of GDP, except in 1995, prior to the Dakar II initiative. As a percentage of current
revenue, the average from 1995 to 1998 was at around 21.3 percent. Although these levels are still
"acceptable," they need to be carefully monitored, since not only is budget revenue still relatively unstable,
but also the debt services weighs heavily on the Government budget.
18.   Although the external debt service is currently higher than the internal debt service, the gap is not
as large as in the previous situation. More restrictive and less concessionary lending terms on the domestic
debt explain this trend. The ratio of the external debt service to exports, however, has tended to improve
since 1995, moving from 21.2 percent to 15.5 percent in 1998. This is an encouraging development, since
it has been a steady trend, and even though the 1998 performance is attributed to a boom in exports, (+36.5
percent), this downward trend is expected to continue.
19.   Arrears on the extemal debt have been paid up in full since 1996, with the exception of a sum left
pending on loans granted by Libya and the former USSR for less than CFAF 5 billion. As for arrears on
the intemal debt, there too the situation has improved, since they have been stabilized at CFAF 16 billion
since 1997.
Structural Reforms
*     Impact of the WAEMU
20.    Burkina Faso is participating in the integration process ihat was initiated in the WAEMU in 1994.
One of the key steps in this process has to do with establishing a customs union in 2000. With this prospect
in mind, a transitional preferential trade regime and a schedule of intermediate steps for introducing the
CET have been adopted. Accordingly, effective July 1, 1996, the Government adopted a 30 percent
- 13-



reduction in import duties on industrial products from approved countries, a measure exempting unfinished
products and traditional arts and crafts from all taxes and duties applied on entering member states, and a 5
percent reduction in import duties or fees on nonauthorized products. On July 1, 1997, the reduction on
authorized industrial goods was raised to 60 percent. It was further increased to 80 percent on July 1,
1999, and will be at 100 percent as of July 2000.
21.    The current fiscal system has four categories of duties and taxes, as follows: a customs duty levied
at a uniform rate of 5 percent; an import duty with three rates, corresponding to different categories of
products (0 percent for category 1, 4 percent for category 2, and 26 percent for category 3); a special
intervention tax of 2 percent; and, a statistics tax of 4 percent. These last two taxes are applied to all
imports, since they are for services rendered. Initially, the tax and duty base was the CIF value of imports,
but the 1998 appropriation law expanded the base to include customs duties for computation of certain
taxes.
22.    With implementation of the CET, the tax system will comprise four categories of products and four
customs duty rates, at 0, 5, 10, and 20 percent. The CET will also apply a 1 percent statistics tax. In the
meantime, Burkina Faso, following the example of all. the other countries, received special authorization to
apply intermediate rates. Hence, from July 1, 1998, to June 30, 1999, it has applied a maximum customs
duty of 30 percent (i.e., a 1 percent reduction in customs duties, strictly speaking). It has applied the new
WAEMU categories since January 1, 1999, and it applies maximum customs taxes of 0, 5, 10, and 25
percent. This reflects a six-point differential in comparison with the current highest rate in the Union.
23.    The adoption and implementation of these various measures are expected to result in a decline in
fiscal revenue. Simulations have shown that the lost revenue would account for about 1 percent of GDP
for the first two years the CET is in force, and for 2 percent for the third year. The impact of the new
customs tariff could be considerable during the 1999-2002 period, even after reduction of the debt service
under the HIPC [heavily indebted poor countries], estimated at 1.2 percent of GDP.
*      HMobilization of Government Resources
i) Enlarginzg the tax base
24.    The Government has taken steps to expand the tax base. To fight tax evasion, it promulgated a
law (Law N38/98/ADP of July 30, 1998) to increase collections from that date to the end of December. It
covers withholding at the source, the customs band, [cordon douanier], and purchases from wholesalers,
to be applied against profit taxes. Draft texts have been prepared and are expected to be submitted to the
National Assembly in 1999. The withholding at source is scheduled to be applied in July 2000.
25.   In addition, with a view to organizing the system of exemptions more effectively to mitigate the
distorting effects on the economy, two studies on exemptions have been initiated. The report on the first
study was submitted in September 1998. It analyzed the legal bases of the different categories of
exemptions, evaluated their financial cost, and included proposals to reduce exemptions to a maximum of
10 percent of tax revenue. The proposals involve simply eliminating special exemptions, reducing
exemptions granted under the investment code, and maintaining the exemptions linked to projects financed
with external resources and exemptions granted under the system of diplomatic privileges. The terms of
reference of the second study have been approved by the Government, and it should be completed in the
course of 1999. It will focus on an economic analysis of the costs and benefits of exemptions.
26.    The measure designed to bring an end to exemptions involving indirect taxes and foreign trade
- 14 -



taxes under the investment code cannot be implemented until the investment code is harmonized in the
WAEMU.
27.   Finally, as part of the Government's effort to fight fraud, it strengthened the operational capacity
of its units in charge of preventing smuggling and fraud by granting additional resources to the National
Anti-Fraud Coordination Unit.
(ii) Improvement of the customs and tax administration
28.    DGI [Tax Department]. In order to ensure effective monitoring of economic operators, the
financial agencies must have accurate information on the population of taxpayers. Moreover, registration
of taxpayers is essential to provide the Government offices with information. The computerization of the
DGI, specifically as regards registration and integrated management of taxes (1998-99), is in the process of
being completed. The DGI currently has a software comprising three modules that covers the three main
functions of a tax service, namely: identification and monitoring of taxpayers; determination of the tax
base; and tax collection. The software was developed to establish the taxpayer registration system and
does not allow a registration number to be automatically assigned, and none of the three modules developed
can be used. This software must be improved and the file of taxpayers must be updated in real time. To do
this, the DGI has developed a project to reform its data processing system, including forecasting. All the
wiring and repairs have been completed. Training for software users, scheduled to take place by the end of
1999, has been provided for. With this training, the first part of the DGI's information program, which
runs from design of the software to testing, is in its final phase. The computerization of the two main
offices of the DGI (Kadiogo I and Houet I) has been completed. The necessary equipment and softwares
have been purchased and are currently being tested.
29.    Customs. To make the customs service more effective and to improve statistics, the Government
has been working to computerize the customs offices since 1996, by installation of the SYDONIA system.
The computerization of six additional customs offices, which was supposed to be completed by December
1998 as an extension of this process, was delayed. The work on two offices (repairs and research on an
effective equipment) still has to be completed between now and the end of the year. The computerization of
customs manifests (December 1998) was tested at the airport. This test was completed in November 1998.
A committee has met to finalize it.
30.   The measures stipulated by the WAEMU, involving the free circulation of goods, require the
system for control of values and origin of goods to be strengthened. Since 1992, Burkina Faso has used the
services of the SGS [Societ6 Generale de Surveillance] to ensure the prior control of imported goods.
This agency has cooperated in the effort to set up a database on values for Customs. It now has a manual
record prepared on the basis of data collected from the SGS and customs offices. It is updated periodically
by an ad hoc committee. The system will be further developed with the installation of a new computer
program for computerized management of the database. It will be set up with the support of the SGS.
After an initial list of values was made available at the end of 1998, a second list of values was drawn up
during the second quarter of 1999 and made available to the customs offices. The telephone line that was
missing during the first quarter was also obtained in the second quarter. The liaison with the SGS is
operational. The database is set up and supplied with data every week.
31.   A system to compare the database with value certification statements (SGS) and customs
declarations (December 1998) could not be introduced for technical reasons. What happened was that the
offices did not include the inspection notices on the declarations. It was therefore impossible to determine
which products had been inspected and which ones had not. A final decisran to ensure registration of these
-15 -



notices was made during this quarter.
32.   The computerization of the offices of the Ministry of Finance is being completed. Priority has been
given to the investment expenditure control unit and to payroll management as of December 1998. As for
foreign financing, the basic data have been collected. Application of the module has been delayed by
problems involving: (i) the availability of data from some lenders; and (ii) consistency between the
breakdown of project expenditures and the lack of a breakdown of Government budget expenditures. As for
payroll management, the problem of personnel who had to be trained and the delay in ordering computer
equipment were the primary reasons for the delay in computerizing payroll management, which was
supposed to take place in December 1998. The software has been operational since August 1999.
33.   Harmonization of the budget nomenclature in the context of the WAEMU is part of the
harmonization of budget procedures in the WAEMU region. With the adoption of the three remaining
guidelines in December 1998, it has been completed.
*     Public Expenditure Management
34.   Current expenditures will be maintained at an average of 10.5 percent of GDP during the
1999-2002 period. This measure, which is designed to limit Government spending and gradually change its
composition in favor of priority sectors, such as health, education, and infrastructure maintenance, has
been carried out since the end of 1998. Current expenditures have in fact been kept at 10.4 percent of
GDP in 1998.
35.   The Government will prepare a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), to be updated
every year, to cover the following: (i) the public investment program; and (ii) recurrent expenses, which
must be in line with objectives related to social and infrastructure indicators (1999-2002). Like the
previous measure, this one is designed to limit Government spending and gradually modify its composition
in favor of priority sectors such as health, education, and infrastructure maintenance. The decision was
made to adopt a MTEF approach. Work to prepare this MTEF is under way. The Government is
committed to preparing program budgets for the six key ministries identified in the April 1999 budget
guidelines. The program budgets presenting a medium-term framework for public expenditures
programming in those sectors will be sent to Parliament with the fiscal year 2001 draft budget bill.
36.   To improve the effectiveness of Government financial management and budget preparation and
monitoring, the Government has begun computerizing the Ministry of Finance, giving priority to the
investment expenditures control unit and payroll management. For investments, the expenditure system for
investments funded with domestic resources has been in operation since 1996. Implementation of the
second one, which pertains to externally-financed investments (including loans and grants), has been
delayed because it has taken longer than expected to enter the data on all the financing agreements due to
their complexity. As for the payroll, the specific expenditure circuit module was included in the "Integrated
Administrative and Wage Management System for Government Employees (SYGASPE)." The system was
started up in August 1999.
*     Strengthening Statistics
37.   The 1996 national survey work was completed and the results were published in June 1998. The
final 1989-93 accounting series were published in 1998. The 1994-96 series has not yet been completed.
But the evaluation plan of the Priority II Survey on Households has been issued. A socioeconomic data
bank focusing on priority sectors such as education and health has been created with the preparation of a
- 16 -



set of key social indicators.
38.    An automated system for management of public debt statistics, using the SYGADE software, was
implemented in 1998 when all the necessary equipment was purchased and instlled in the network. A
solution must still be found, however, to some problems in the flow of information among the various
offices involved, including the Public Debt Department, and theDirecton Generale de la Cooperatton
[Cooperation Division], and the Central Bank).
*       Restructuring Public Enterprises
39.    As part of the reorganization of the telecommunications sector, the National Assembly adopted a
law authorizing partial privatization of the National Telecommunications Company (ONATEL) in
December 1998. It provides for the partial sale of Government shares in ONATEL, the establishment of a
regulatory authority, and the opening of the sector to private investors. The implemenfing provisions are in
the process of being drafted. The Govermment also approved a law to open the electricity sector to private
investment.
ATTACHMENT
Table 1: Gross Domestic Product
(CFAF billion)              1985          1990        1995           1996         1997          1998
GDP at constant prices      663.1         752.1       892.6         947.7         999.5         1056.3
Growth rate                 13.1%         -1.5%       4.1%           6.2%         5.5%          5.7%
Primary sector               -            6.7/o       03%            7.3%         -1.5%         11.1%
Secondary sector                          -2,0%       2.2%           1.1%         15.90/%       1.4/
Tertiary sector                           3.4%        7.3%           6.5%         8.2%          2.6%
Table 2: Bsudget Ratios
1985        1990         1995          1996         1997         1998
Tax revenue/GDP                7.7%        9.8%         11.2%         12.1%        12.2%        12.1%
Govenmment revenue/GDP         9.5%        11.8%        12.1%         13.1%        13.2%        13.2%
Current expenditure/GDP        7.3%        11.4%        11.6%         11.0%        10.2%        10.4%
Wages/current expenditure      69.6%       65.0%        46.5%         48.0%        48.3%        45.5%
Capital expenditure/GDP        0.9%        0.9%          0.9%         1.3%         2.4%         3.1%
-17 -



Table 3: Budaet Balances
(CFAF billion)                            1985        1990        1995       1996       1997         1998
Budget savings                             14.2        3.1        6.4        25.7       41.7         41.3
as % of GDP                               2.1%        0.4%        0.6%      2.1%        3.0%        2.7%
Overall balance (commitment basis)        -9.4        -17.1      -21.3       -1.4       -26.2       -39.0
as % of GDP                               -1.4%       -2.2%      -1.9%      -0.1%       -1.9%       -2.6%
Excluding grants                          -25.7       -40.0      -90.8      -89.5       -104.9      -123.2
Overall balance (cash basis)              -10.3       -1.9        -38.3     -15.1       -40.0       -46.5
as % of GDP                               -1.6%       -0.2%      -3.3%      -1.2%       -2.9%       -3.1%
Table 4: Outstanding Debt
1985        1990     1995       1996      1997       1998
Public debt (CFAF billion)       178.0       223.8    699.5      728.7    813.8       793.1
as % of GDP                     26.8%       28.8%     61.1%      59.4%    59.2%      52.4%
External debt (CFAF billion)     165.5       208.6    667.5      692.6    768.7       753.4
as % of total debt              93.0%       93.2%     95.4%      95.0%    94.5%      95.0%
Domestic debt (CFAF billion)     12.5        15.3     32.0       36.1      45.1       39.8
Table 5: Debt Service
1985      1990      1995      1996      1997     1998
Public debt service (CFAF billion)         13.8       20.8      40.4      29.6     35.1      36.5
as % of GDP                                2.1%       2.7%     3.5%      2.4%      2.5%      2.4%
as % of currentrevenue                     22.0%      22.7%     29.1%     18.5%     19.3%    18.3%
Extemal debt service (CFAF billion)        12.5       12.6      29.2      24.2     26.6      28.4
as % of exports                           -24.1%      -29.2%    -53.4%    -37.4%    -36.4%    -37.5%
Domestics debt service (CFAF billion)      1.4        8.2       1.2       5.5      8.5       8.1
as % of the total                          9.8%       39.5%    27.7%     18.4%    24.2%      22.2%
- 18-



(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Not applicable
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/ Ilmact Indicators: -_                                                                 _      _      _
GDP/capita over 3% p.a.                NA                                     2.4% estimate for 1999
Double literacy rate from 20% to 40% in  NA                                   18.4 in 1998
2005
Raise life expectancy to 57 years in 2008    NA                               54
Limit inflation to 3% p.a.             NA                                     2.7% estimate for 1999
Reduce current account deficit, excluding    NA                               13.3 % estimate for 1999;
grants, to 9% of GDP by 2000                                                  14.8% projected for 2000
Output Indicators:
Public Finance:
Reduce exemptions, computerize customs   NA                                   Tax revenue in 1999 17% higherthan in
operations and improve tax administration to                                  1998, broadly in line with program target
offset losses due to phasing in of Common
Extemal Tariff (CET)
Public Expenditure:
Implement the Medium Term Expenditure    NA                                   MTEF implemented for six ministries in
Framework (MTEF) for education and health                                     1999, including education and health, and for
in 1999, infrastructure sectors in 2000 and                                   all ministries in 2000
all sectors in 2001
Public administration:
Initiate civil service reform in Ministry of Civil NA                         Implementation of merit-based promotion
Service, extend to Ministries of Education                                    system; hiring of contractuals in education
and Health, and laterto all ministries                                        and health to reduce cost
Public enterprise:
Implement 1998 tranche of the program,    NA                                  1998 and 1999 tranches were not fully
including liquidation of five companies and                                   implemented. There were delays in the
call fbr bid for a hotel                                                      privatizabon process of the
telecommunications and airline companies,
and in the liquidation of a textile company
End of project
The adjustment credit was approved and its single tranche was released following completion of the 1998 reform
program
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Credit Amount                                          15.00           15.00
Total Baseline Cost                                    15.00           15.00
Physical Contingencies                                 0.00            0.00
Total Project Costs               15.00           15.00
Total Financing Required               15.00           15.00
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
( .  -   :-le.g..2 Eat M, etc.)   ::: .             i    .   Deelp
Identification/Preparation
2    Economists
1    Consultant (tax policy expert)
Appraisal/Negotiation
2    Economists
Supervision
I   Economist
ICR
2    Consutants
3    1 Economist and 2 Peer
Reviewers (economists)
(b) Staff:
-tag- of Project Cycle
L- --   .  =   .  ... ... X  ... .. No  ,   ': ' ' ' ..................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ..
Identification/Preparation                     28.3                         141,300
Appraisal/Negotiation                 __6.1                ____29,500
S    ervision                                   5.8                          25,160
ICR                          I_3_5                                           16,005
Total                                          40.3                         195,960
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
. Macro policies                       O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Physical                               O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Z Financial                              OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
X Institutional Development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
ZPoverty Reduction                OH  OSU OM  ON  O NA
OGender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
EJ Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LIZ Other (Please specif)                OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactoly, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
Cl Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS  C U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
LI Preparation                                       OHS OS   C U   O HU
O Government implementation performance               O HS 0 s   C  U  C HU
El Implementation agency performance                 O HS 0 s   C  U  C HU
FI Overall                                           OHS OS   C  U  O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Not applicable
- 26 -



