Report No. PID7083
Project Name                     Burkina Faso-Economic Management Reform...
Support Operation
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Macroeconomic
Project ID                       BFPE58282
Borrower                         Burkina Faso
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Finance
Date PID Prepared                September 15, 1998
Appraisal                        September 22-30, 1998
Board Date                       November 5, 1998
I.      Country and Sector Background
Since 1991 Burkina Faso has established a record of satisfactory adjustment
under several IMF- and IDA-supported programs carried out with the assistance
of the donor community. After a period of modest economic expansion and
following the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc, real GDP growth picked up,
reaching 4 percent in 1995, 6.2 percent in 1996, and 5.5 percent in 1997.
Inflation was contained to 2.5 percent in 1997, compared to 6.1 percent in
1996. The Government's financial position improved significantly between 1995
and 1997. The primary current fiscal account moved steadily from a balanced
position in 1994 to a surplus of 4 percent of GDP in 1997. The overall fiscal
deficit (commitment basis, excluding grants) dropped from 11 percent of GDP in
1994 to 8.9 percent of GDP in 1996, but it rose to 9.8 percent of GDP in 1997
as public investment surged.
As results of its adjustment record, Burkina Faso benefited from a Paris Club
stock-of-debt reduction operation in 1996, involving a 67 percent reduction in
net present value of its eligible debt ($71.5 million). In September and
November 1997, the World Bank and the IMF Boards voted that Burkina Faso was
eligible and qualified for assistance under the Initiative for Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC), provided that the authorities move swiftly to
complete the ambitious reform program underway. The completion point has been
set for April 2000. A seventh Policy Framework Paper covering the period 1998-
2000 was finalized in August 1998.
II.     Project Objectives and Description
The single tranche credit will underpin an expanded structural reform program
and the regional integration effort. Given Burkina Faso's continued need for
budget support foreseen in the 1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the
credit will help Burkina Faso to partially offset the reduction of revenue
resulting from the implementation of the WAEMU's new CET regime, while other
reforms in revenues and expenditures restore relative fiscal stability. Thus,
the credit is an integral part of the Bank's strategy to assist Burkina Faso
in maintaining macroeconomic stability and financial sustainability, and in
gaining competitiveness. The proposed measures are essential to the
enhancement of Burkina Faso's growth prospects. The reforms supported by the
operation are, furthermore, necessary to create an environment conducive to



private sector-led economic growth while helping to ensure an orderly
transition toward greater regional and global integration. Also, by focusing
on revenue mobilization and the reallocation of public resources towards two
priority areas, namely education and health, the operation is expected to
ensure that these two key sectors would not suffer from budgetary cuts during
the transition period and to have a direct and positive impact on poverty
alleviation.
The reform program associated with this credit has three major elements: (i)
public finance reform, including progress towards the WAEMU convergence to a
CET, and Burkina Faso's full integration into the regional customs union to be
completed on January 1, 2000; (ii) rationalization of public expenditure
management and strengthening of public administration; and (iii), continued
implementation of public enterprise reform.
Public Finance. Despite recent improvements in revenue collection, Burkina
Faso continues to be faced with an inadequate tax structure. Fiscal revenue
is highly dependent on a relatively high level of tariffs, which discriminates
against exports and undermines the efficiency in the allocation of public
resources. At end-1997, taxes on trade accounted for about 51 percent of
total fiscal revenue, taxes on goods and services for 25 percent, and profit
taxes for 20 percent. Tax administration suffers from some shortcomings
related to tax collection, taxpayers ID number and other irregularities that
need to be addressed so as to ensure that tax collection is achieved in an
adequate and timely manner.
The phasing in of the CET is likely to lead --between mid-1998 and 2000-- to
significant revenue losses caused by the cut in the maximum tariff from 31
percent to 20 percent and in the statistical tax from 6 percent to 1 percent.
According to preliminary studies that simply apply the proposed tariff rate
structure to the existing composition of imports without regard to trade
creation from lower external tariffs or trade diversion from the elimination
of internal tariffs, these losses may amount to 3.4 billion FCFA (1.5 percent
of the 1997 budget revenues) in 1998; 14 billion FCFA (6 percent of the 1997
budget revenues) in 1999; and 25 billion FCFA (10.7 percent of the 1997 budget
revenue) in 2000. Over the transition period -and after allowing for
compensatory measures- the external tariff cuts would lower budgetary revenue
from an estimated 13 percent of GDP in 1998 to an estimated 12 percent of GDP
in 2000.
To offset some of the above losses, the authorities are committed to adopting
a series of measures aimed at shifting fiscal resource away from trade and
strengthening tax administration by broadening the tax base through curtailing
tax and customs duty exemptions in accordance with the policy being prepared
by the WAEMU, in particular in relation to the envisaged regional
harmonization of the investment code; and strengthening tax administration
through the computerization of six additional custom revenue collection
offices before the end of 1998.
Public Expenditure Management and Public Administration. While current
expenditure as a share of GDP has declined from 12.7 percent of GDP in 1994 to
10 percent in 1997, investment spending in the health, education and
infrastructure sectors has risen markedly. However, the Government needs to
continue to restructure its public expenditures to ensure adequate funding of
priority sectors while containing overall recurrent expenditure and enhancing
-2 -



the efficiency of public outlays.
The Government recognizes the importance of improving public expenditure
planning, management and execution. Enhancing public expenditure efficiency,
and increasing resource allocations for the social sectors, in line with
policy priorities agreed under the HIPC Final Document, requires new
instruments. To strengthen programming and management of public expenditure,
the Government has been developing a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF),
which will be used as a tool to integrate the process of sectoral decision
making and setting budget allocations according to Government's priorities.
Eventually, under the MTEF, sectoral policy decisions will be integrated
within a three-year rolling macroeconomic and public expenditure framework.
The aim of the Government is to implement the MTEF for the health and
education sectors in 1999, for the infrastructure sector in 2000 and for all
sectors in 2001.
Public Enterprise Reform.The Government is determined to: (i) deepening the
reform by completely liquidating public enterprises identified for
privatization in 1991 and 1994, for which buyers have not been found; (ii)
putting up for sale enterprises already slated for privatization; and (iii),
rehabilitating public utilities companies by periodically adjusting tariff
rates to reflect the cost and efficiency gains of producing these goods and
services. In addition, the Government plans to prepare a comprehensive
inventory of its equity holdings and a strategic analysis of its portfolio
with a view to opening up to competition the sectors reserved to the state
until now. In this context, the Government will open up to the private sector
the telecommunications sector by no later than April 1999, and it has also
initiated the privatization of Air-Burkina.
The stage for this operation has been set by a number of important decisions
already taken or currently being taken and that will be fully implemented
prior to Board presentation to demonstrate the Government's determination to
maintain and consolidate fiscal stability. These decisions concern the
following actions:
lowering the maximum tariff rate from 31 percent to 25 percent;
abolishing the special intervention tax;
finalizing the automation of the customs-clearance procedures for imports;
finalizing the computerization of six additional border customs offices;
issuing the list of public enterprises to be privatized or liquidated during
the 1998-2000 period;
issuing budget guidelines for the preparation of the 1999 budget, including
specific sectoral targets for health and education; and
strengthening public expenditure programming and management, in particular,
through the adoption of program budgets in the social and basic infrastructure
sectors.
III.    Financing
The operation will be supported by an IDA credit of US$15 million, which will
be released at credit effectiveness. This one tranche credit is justified on
the basis of (i) significant up-front policy actions dealing with public
finance; and (ii) the drop in fiscal revenue due to the introduction of the
WAEMU's CET.
-3-



IV.     Poverty Category and Environmental Aspects
Poverty category is B and environment category is C.
V.       Program Objective Categories (POC)
The operation falls under the poverty reduction POC.
VI.      Contact Point:  The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 27, 1998.
- 4 -



