Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7266 BUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 11 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURKINA FASO
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
October 14, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =                CFA Franc
US$1                          =                CFA 548 (as of 10/13/98)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB            African Development Bank
BCEAO          Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CET             Common External Tariff
ECOWAS          Economic Community of West African States
EMRSO           Economic Management Reform Support Operation
ESAF            Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU              European Union
HIPC            Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IFC             International Finance Corporation
IMF             International Monetary Fund
MIGA            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF             Minister of Economy and Finance
MTEF            Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NGOs            Non Governmental Organizations
NPV             Net Present Value
PER             Public Expenditure Review
PFP             Policy Framework Paper
PID             Public Institutional Development
PIP             Public Investment Program
SAC             Structural Adjustment Credit
SSA             Sub Saharan Africa
TF              Trust Fund
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
WAEMU           West African Economic and Monetary Union
Vice-President              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director            Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager              Charles Humphreys
Task Team Leader            Miguel Saponara
Country Economist C_lestin Monga



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Program Summary ...................................                   ii
1. INTRODUCTION ...................................               .1
2. BACKGROUND.1
A. OVERVIEW.1
B. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE.2
C. RECENT REFORM EFFORTS.4
D. BURIKINA'S DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES AND RE,GIONAL INTEGRATION.8
E. MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS.9
F. BUDGETARY GAP AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS.12
3. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURKTNA FASO AND COLLABORATION WITH
2DONOKR   OUN ...............................................................................................................................................1
4. THE PROPOSED OPERATION                                                       16
A. LINK  WITH THE CAS AMN RATIONALE FOR THE CREDIT6 1
B. CREDIT COMPONENTS.16
C.         SPECIFIC ACTIONS REQUIRED FOR THIS CREDIT.20
D. LOOKINGETD AAD21
5. C R EDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION                                         22
6. RECOMMENDATION2 2
ANNEXES
Annex A     Income and Social Indicators
Annex B     Main Economic Indicators
Annex C     External Financing Requirements and Resources
Annex D     Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex E     Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
Annex F     Matrix of Policy Actions
Annex G     Country at a Glance
Annex H     Government Letter of Development Policy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
BURKINA FASO
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:               Burkina Faso
Beneficiaries:          Population of Burkina Faso
Amount:                 IDA Credit:    SDR 11 million ($15 million)
Terms:                  IDA Credit:    Standard with 40-year maturity
Program Description:    The proposed Economic Management Reform  Support Operation
(EMRSO) is an integral part of the Bank's strategy to help Burkina
Faso maintain macroeconomic stability, achieve sustainable public
finances, and increase international competitiveness. This one tranche
operation would be the first in a series to provide budgetary support to
the government while it carries out reforms in public finance, puts in
place the common external tariff of the WAEMU (to be completed on
January 1, 2000), and improves the functioning of its public
administration. These reforms, especially tax and trade reform, are
essential to create an environment conducive to efficient private sector
investment and growth. And by reallocating public funds toward
priority activities in health and education, the reforms will further
strengthen the country's growth potential while helping correct
underlying factors that contribute to Burkina's deep poverty.
Benefits:               Public finance reform and regional integration would benefit Burkina
Faso's growth over the medium and long-term by: (i) improving the
government's resource mobilization system; (ii) stimulating private
investment flows and external trade; (iii) improving efficiency and
productivity; and (iv) providing Burkina Faso's economic agents with
free access to the significantly larger WAEMU market.
Risks:                  Burkina's adjustment record since the 1996 CAS has been steady, but
uneven. While the overall reform program over the past five years has
been good, progress on privatization, trade liberalization, ciil service
reform and decentralization has been rather slow. Also, the
government's strategy in key sectors like agriculture and infrastructure
is still under preparation. The reform agenda proposed could encounter
some political resistance heightened by the presidential elections,
scheduled for November 1998; however, the Government has
reaffirmed its commitment to both the reform process and the regional
integration; and to testify to its determination, the Government has



iii
already taken a number of upfront actions and has already started
implementing the reforms programmed for 1998-2000. There will be no
disbursement until all actions underpinning this credit are taken.
Rate of Return:         Not Applicable
Poverty Category:       Not Applicable
Appraisal Report:       Not Applicable
Estimated
Disbursements:          SDR 11 million would be released at credit effectiveness.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURKINA FASO
FOR AN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on the proposed
Economic Management Reform Support Operation (EMRSO) to the Republic of Burkina Faso for
SDR 11 million, an amount equivalent to US$15 million, on standard IDA terms. The credit is
proposed as the first of a series of one-tranche operations to support the government as it continues
to implement the ongoing adjustment program. The Credit fits into the ongoing Country Assistance
Strategy and is justified on the basis of significant up-front policy actions dealing largely with public
finance management. In addition, it is expected to assist the Government's regional integration
effort, consolidate the public enterprise reform program and underpin the modernization and
rationalization of the public sector.
2. BACKGROUND
A.    OVERVIEW
Historical and Political Background
2.    Burkina Faso is a landlocked country, poorly endowed in natural resources, and with very
limited rainfall - averaging 350mm in the North and 1000 mm in the South-West. The state emerged
as the dominant actor in the economy during the Sankara period (1983-87) with heavy involvement
in the productive sectors and generalized price and trade regulations. During this period, the role of
the state as a caretaker of the economy and the provider of social services became deeply ingrained
in the population, its leadership, and the civil servants. As a result, while systemic political changes
were initiated as early as 1988, the shift toward a more selective role of the state and market based
economic policies started only in 1991 and has been more gradual.
3.    Burkina has enjoyed political stability since 1987 under the leadership of President
Compaore. The country moved steadily toward political pluralism and has now organized several
multi-party elections: presidential (1991), parliamentary (1992 and 1997), municipal (1995). While
the upcoming presidential elections in November 1998 will be an important milestone in the
consolidation of the new political system, the most significant socio-political changes are likely to
come in 1999 and 2000 once the major decentralizatioi1 law recently adopted by the Parliament is
enacted and the proposed increased delegation of authority and resources to the local level becomes
effective.



2
The Economy
4.    Burkina Faso is a member of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAE!q1)
and shares a common currency, the CFA franc, and a central bank (BCEAO), with Benin, Cote
d'Ivoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Guinea-Bissau. The CFA franc has been pegged to the
French franc since 1948; the fixed parity was altered only once, in January 1994, when the CFA
franc was devalued by 50 percent in foreign currency terms from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per French
franc. Given Burkina Faso's narrow tax base, a structural government budget deficit and pervasive,
deep poverty, the country has traditionally benefited from important external aid flows (grants have
represented 7.5 percent of GDP over the past five years). Such support is likely to continue.
5.    The primary sector (38 percent of GDP in 1997) is dominated by agriculture which accounts
for almost 50 percent of value added in the primary sector, while livestock accounts for some 30
percent, and forestry andfishery for the remaining 20 percent. The secondary sector (18 percent of
GDP) has experienced a remarkable growth of 11 percent in 1997, mostly because of a sharp
expansion in cotton ginning. The energy sector (electricity, gas, and water) accounts for only 3
percent of the secondary sector value added, but it is estimated to have grown at an average rate of 8
percent a year over the last three years. In the mining sector, value added is estimated to have
increased by about 10 percent in 1997, but modern production of gold remains significantly below
the level of before 1994 due to delays in completing the rehabilitation of the country's largest mine,
Poura, which used to produce some 3 tons per year. At present, the largest share of production
comes from traditional gold panning. The tertiary sector (44 percent of GDP) grew steadily over the
last years. Services, excluding Government services, increased by 6.6 percent in 1996 and 9.5
percent in 1997, driven by transport services and trade. Government services increased on average
by 3 percent only, in line with the cautious public employment and wage policies.
Poverty and Human Resource Base
6.    With a population of 11 million growing at about 2.7 percent per annum, Burkina Faso's real
GDP per capita was US$ 218 in 1997. By this measure of income as well as on the basis of UNDP's
human poverty index, Burkina Faso is among the poorest countries in the world. About 45 percent
of its population falls below the absolute poverty line while 28 percent of the population is
considered extremely poor according to surveys conducted in 1995.
7.    Social indicators of Burkina Faso (life expectancy of 50 years in 1996, infant mortality of 98
per thousand, literacy rate of 22 percent, and gross primary enrollment rate of 40 percent with female
only 30 percent) are poor, even by sub-Saharan standards, and the low health status and education
level of the population constitute major constraints to economic and social development.
B.  MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
8.    Since 1991, Burkina Faso has been implementing a wide range of economic reforms under a
series of stabilization and structural adjustment programs supported by the Bank, the IMF and other
donors.  Overall, it has established a relatively positive track record associated with good
macroeconomic performance. Burkina Faso's real GDP growth increased sharply following the
1994 CFA franc devaluation from an average of 0.8 percent a year in the period 1992-93 to an
average of 4.2 percent in 1994-97. An important contribution to this growth was the good



3
performance of the cotton sector (seed production increased from 117,000 tons in 1994 to 334,000
tons in 1997), which led to corresponding increases in cotton processing, trade and transportation. In
addition, cereal production expanded from 1.3 million tons in 1994 to about 2.4 million tons in 1997.
Particularly since 1996, construction and public works also contributed importantly to GDP growth
because of expenditures associated with infrastructure development and rehabilitation and with the
implementation of projects in rural areas, health, and education. In 1997, performance continued to
improve in the secondary and tertiary sectors, but real GDP growth slowed to 5.5 percent from 6.2
percent in 1996 because of the impact of insufficient rainfall on cereal production.
9.    The Government's financial position improved significantly between 1995 and 1997. The
primary current fiscal account moved steadily from a balanced position in 1994 to a surplus of 4
percent of GDP in 1997. The improvement in the primary balance (which excludes foreign-financed
investment expenditure) was less pronounced, owing to a large increase in the domestic contribution
to investment. Similarly, the overall fiscal deficit (commitment basis, excluding grants) dropped
from 11 percent of GDP in 1994 to 8.9 percent of GDP in 1996, but it rose to 9.8 percent of GDP in
1997 as public investment surged. On the financing side, recourse to domestic bank credit was very
modest in 1996 (CFAF 1 billion), but jumped to CFAF 21.9 billion (1.5 percent of GDP) in 1997
reflecting higher domestic contribution to investment, domestic arrears reduction and restructuring
operations. Externalfinancing of the public investment budget, which averaged 80 percent in recent
years, rose from 8.3 percent of GDP in 1995 to 9.7 percent in 1997.
10.   The deficit on the current account of the balance of payments, excluding official transfers,
widened in 1996 from 11.3 percent of GDP to 13.4 percent, on account of stagnating exports and an
increase of imports, in particular of investment goods. In 1997, a strong recovery of exports, mainly
cotton, resulted in only a marginal reduction in the current account deficit (13.3 percent of GDP)
because of the continued growth of imports of goods and services. Consumer price inflation has
been reduced sharply since the 1994 devaluation. The annual inflation rate dropped from 28 percent
in 1994 to 8.8 percent in 1995, 6.2 percent in 1996, and 2.3 percent in 1997. This trend resulted
from good cereal harvest, moderate wage increases, restrained monetary policy and low inflation
worldwide, notably in the main trading partners.
11.   Debt. In recent years, Burkina Faso has successfully negotiated debt relief arrangements
with its creditors, avoided the accumulation of arrears, and maintained a prudent borrowing policy.
Burkina Faso's 1996 stock-of-debt reduction was on Naples terms, with a 67 percent net present
value (NPV) reduction of all eligible debt. The agreement applied to all outstanding principal as of
June 20, 1996. The total debt stock was reduced by about CFAF 35.7 billion (US$69 million), or
about 5.1 percent of the total debt stock as of mid-June 1996. Bilateral agreements were concluded
with Paris Club creditors and some non-Paris Club creditors in the course of 1996 and 1997. At end-
1996, the ratio of NPV of debt to the average of exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1994-96
was estimated at 240 percent, while debt service as a proportion of exports of goods and nonfactor
services stood at about 19 percent. In spite of the above, Burkina Faso's external debt service
obligations will be difficult to sustain in the medium and long term. Balance of payments
projections over the medium term indicate that the ratio of the NPV of Burkina Faso' s stock of debt
to its exports of goods and nonfactor services will remain substantially above the 200 percent
threshold for a number of years. Consequently, Burkina Faso has requested that it be considered
eligible for exceptional debt reduction under the HIPC Initiative. Burkina's eligibility for debt relief



4
under the HIPC initiative was endorsed by the Board in November 1997, and the completion point
has been set for April 2000.
12.   While Burkina Faso's macroeconomic performance has been good since the 1994 CFA
Franc devaluation, it is fragile and below what is needed to reduce poverty substantially. To
accelerate economic growth, it is essential that more be done to foster the development of
competitive private sector activities, in particular by improving the business environment.
Institutional weaknesses, especially in the public sector, persist despite repeated reform efforts.
Also, the government needs to accentuate its efforts to strengthen revenue mobilization and to ensure
that public resources are allocated and spent in the most efficient and social-equity oriented way.
C.  RECENT REFORM EFFORTS
13.   Burkina Faso has made significant headway in its transition to a market-oriented economy.
Some progress has been achieved in implementing trade, fiscal and public enterprise reforms as well
as in the areas of social policy and institutional development (see Table 1).
Structural Reforms
14.   Substantial external trade reforms began in 1993 with the consolidation of tariff rates into
three categories (11, 14 and 37 percent). Regulations on profit margins for imported goods were
removed; price controls on locally produced goods were eliminated and remain in effect only for
rice, generic drugs, petroleum products, and utilities which are still entrusted to public monopolies.
Government policy reforms have done much to correct the policy environment which had distorted
incentives markedly in favor of urban areas. Following up on the reforms of the early nineties, a tax
reform was drafted in 1997 in preparation for the gradual entry into force of the common external
tariff of the WAEMU over the period July 1998-January 2000. The new customs tariff provides for
a simplified structure of four rates (0, 5, 10, and 20 percent), plus a statistical tax of I percent. In
accordance with the decision taken by the WAEMU Council of Ministers at end-November 1997, a
transitory period of tariff adjustment started on July 1, 1998 when the maximum tariff rate (currently
31 percent, excluding the statistical tax) was reduced to 30 percent.
15.   In the rural sector, reforms under the first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit liberalized
trade and prices of traditional cereals and livestock. However, incentive reforms are still incomplete.
The rice subsector is still subject to state intervention. The booming cotton subsector remains a
monopoly from product marketing to exports. To address the outstanding agricultural issues in a
comprehensive manner, a national effort to formulate a rural development strategy is underway
focusing on the following: (a) agriculture technology and transfer, mainly oriented towards
improving the relevance of research and the efficiency of service delivery mechanisms; (b) priority
investments in rural infrastructure (roads and irrigation) aiming at increasing agricultural
productivity; (c) accelerating investments in human development (education, health, water and
sanitation); (d) promoting a more rational use of natural resources, with special attention to soil
fertility, water management and tree conservation; and (e) completing the policy and institutional
reforms of agricultural services to ensure the consistency of support and advisory services provided
to farmers.



5
Table 1. Burkina Faso: Main Structural Reforms under IDA
and IMF SAF and ESAF-Supported Programs, 1991-98
Reforms                                                                                                     Year (Actual)
1. Fiscal Reform
Tax reform
Introduction of value-added tax (VAT) on large enterprises and imports                                              1993
Revision of system of taxation for petroleum products, with introduction of VAT                                     1993
Increase in the rate of VAT from 15 to 18 percent                                                                   1996
Implementation of a single system of taxation in the informal sector & of small and medium-size enterprises         1993
Establishment of tax unit for large taxpayers                                                                       1994
Introduction of single tax identifying number                                                                       1995
Reduction in the rate of the corporate income tax from 45 to 40 percent                                             1996
Current expenditures restricted to 10.5% of GDP                                                                     1997-99
Implementation of the first phase of the WAEMU common external tariff                                               1998
Budgetary reform
Strict enforcement of prior commitment authorization by Ministry of Finance                                         1995
Closure of expenditure commitments by November 20 of each year                                                      1995
Preparation of a monthly status of expenditure by budget heading at the commitment, settlement & payment order stage  1995
Adoption of a unified budget nomenclature                                                                           1995
Adoption of a computerization plan for the Ministry of Finance and financial govemment agencies                     1996
Launching of the harmonization program for budgetary & public accounting procedures in the context of the WAEMU     1997
Reduction of domestic arrears
Repayment of debt of the postal saving system                                                                       1995-96
External debt
Strengthening of the debt management unit                                                                           1997-98
2. Public enterprise privatization (initial 76 enterprises)
First phase ofprivatization concerning 24 enterprises: 16 enterprises privatized; I transformed into an administrative unit of the  1991-96
ministry of Secondary and Higher Education; 3 liquidated; I being privatized; 3 maintained in the state companies' portfolio
Second phase ofprivatization concerning 20 enterprises: 5 enterprises privatized; 5 liquidated; and 7 to be privatized and 3 to be  1994-99
liquidated
A strategic study is currently underway for the remaining state companies' portfolio (32 enterprises)               1998-99
3. Banking sector reform
Liquidation of BND-B                                                                                                Early 1997
Privatization of BFCI                                                                                               Early 1997
Privatization of BIB                                                                                                1994
Reduction of bank debt due by Government                                                                            1995-98
Creation of two new banks (Ecobank-Burkina and Bank of Africa)                                                      1997-98
4. Trade liberalization
Elimination of most price controls                                                                                  1991-94
Elimination of most export duties                                                                                   1993
Elimination of import authorization and requirements                                                                1993-95
Trade and price liberalization, including elimination of public marketing and stabilization schemes on traditional cereals, oil seeds,    1993
livestock
Elimination of CGP (public enterprise) monopoly of rice imports                                                     1996
Elimination of SOSUCO monopoly for sugar imports                                                                    1996
Reduction in the number of products whose imports are subject to quality controls                                   1996
Removal of export restrictions on hides and skins                                                                   1996
5. Liberalization of Labor Code                                                                                        1993-94
6. Civil service reform
Adoption of a new legal framework for civil service reform                                                          1998



6
16.   The  first phase  of the  public  enterprise  reform  was  completed  with  the
privatization/liquidation of 19 enterprises and the elimination of large budgetary subsidies. The
second phase of the reform, approved by law on July 1, 1994, covers the privatization or liquidation
of 20 public enterprises, and should be completed before end-1999. The financial sector has been
strengthened and now comprises the national agency of the BCEAO, seven commercial banks, a
postal savings bank (CNE), a postal checking agency (CCP), and several consumer credit and
equipment leasing organizations. In addition, a number of savings and loan cooperatives and
financial association networks operate at the urban and village level. Savings and loan cooperatives
and mutual funds together hold some CFAF 6 billion of deposits and allocate about CFAF 5 billion
in loans; they contribute to only 4 percent of total lending and deposits, but reach some 270,000
individuals (3 percent of the population). While Burkina has reliable financial institutions, the
financial intermediation system needs to be deepened, including through the development of
effective and decentralized micro-credit schemes.
17.   As for the mining sector, after increasing steadily to reach 5.5 tons of gold in 1990, semi-
industrial gold mining and traditional gold panning production started declining from 1991. To
encourage mining investments, a new mining code was adopted in 1997 which redefines government
prerogatives in granting and withholding licenses, limits government participation in mining
ventures to 10 percent, abolishes state monopoly control over gold exports, and strengthens the
security of tenure of artisanal miners. This policy has provided the right incentive and has started to
pay off. In spite of a rather depressed international gold market (with prices declining from $380 per
ounce in early 1997 to around $300 in the first six months of 1998), artisanal mining is prevalent at
over 200 sites throughout the country and provides a livelihood for some 75,000 miners. Besides,
some 20 international mining companies have become active in exploration, and important private
investments can be expected in the sector over the next years when the gold market recovers.
Social Sector Reforms
18.   According to UNDP's human poverty index, which uses indicators of life expectancy,
malnourishment of children, and access to basic education, health services, and safe water to
measure some of the qualitative dimensions of deprivation, Burkina Faso ranks 76th among 78
developing countries, as about 58 percent of its population does not meet the minimum health
requirements. Consequently, health and education sector reforms have been and remain at the top of
the list of the Government policy agenda.
19.   Health. The health status of the Burkinabe population is poor, with life expectancy at birth
reaching only 50 years --compared to an average for Sub-Saharan Africa of 52 years. Low life
expectancy is to a large extent the results of high infant mortality (98 per thousand in 1996,
compared to an average of 90 per thousand for SSA of per thousand) which is caused by widespread
contagious diseases like malaria, diphtheria, tetanus, measles, and meningitis, and unfavorable
hygienic conditions. In addition, chronic malnutrition especially among childbearing women is a
significant cause of mortality among women in the 20-49 year age group. HIV prevalence is
estimated to be about 7 percent.
20.   To address this situation, the Government has been pursuing health reforms following the
guidelines of the Bamako Initiative since the mid-1990s.    The   main  objectives   of  the
Government's strategy are: to facilitate access to and increase the utilization rate of health centers; to



7
provide health centers with adequate resources and essential, low cost generic drugs (the number of
operational districts will be increased from 22 at the beginning of 1998 to 35 in 1999); to reduce the
maximum area covered by health and social promotion centers to 5 kilometers; to reduce
malnutrition, particularly among children under five years of age, by providing caloric and
micronutrient supplements; and to promote the prevention of major diseases that are likely to
negatively affect labor productivity and economic growth (AIDS, malaria, and other major infectious
diseases). The Government, with donor support, will continue the construction and equipment of
health centers, promote the use of essential generic drugs, expand its immunization program, and
encourage the involvement of local communities and the private sector in the design and
management of health centers. To achieve these goals, the share of total expenditure on health in
total budgetary outlays (including foreign-financed expenditures) has been increased from 7.4
percent in 1993 to 11.6 percent in 1997, or to an average of US$5 per capita, compared to US$15
recommended by Better Health in Africa.
21.   Education. Burkina Faso has one of the lowest primary school enrollment rates in Sub-
Saharan Africa -- 40 percent gross enrollment ratio in 1997, compared to an estimated 75 percent for
Sub-Saharan Africa. Large disparities exist, with urban areas recording higher enrollment rates
while eight provinces in rural areas have registered enrollment rates under 20 percent. Quality
indicators are also poor: the number of repeaters, for instance, is estimated at 18 percent, and only 20
percent of the students complete the primary cycle in four years. Because of insufficient
infrastructure and inadequate organization of the academic year, it is estimated that students only
received 660 hours of schooling in 1997, compared to an average of 850 hours in other countries of
the region. Private and community participation in the primary education system is still very
limited. Out of the 3,568 schools and 12,290 classrooms identified in 1996, 92 percent were part of
the public system.
22.   To reverse this situation, the Government has prepared a strategy to implement a 10-year
plan aimed at addressing the issues of coverage, equity and quality of primary education in an
integrated fashion. The strategy is designed to raise the gross enrollment ratio to 46 percent of the
primary school-aged population by 2000, improve the quality of primary education, increase the
enrollment of girls, and promote the cost-effective use of public education resources. The share of
total expenditure on primary education in total budgetary outlays (including foreign-financed
expenditures) has been increased from 8.8 percent in 1993 to 10.5 percent in 1997, an average of
$4.6 per capita. The Government has also developed a program to increase the participation of the
private sector in secondary education to free up resources for the expansion of public primary
education, and improve quality and efficiency. In addition, a new program of school construction is
under preparation, with particular emphasis on the provinces with the lowest enrollment rates.
NGOs and private schools are also being encouraged to contribute on a greater scale to the
expansion of primary education rolls; and efforts to increase adult literacy particularly with respect
to women, are being stepped up.
Institutional Reforms and Capacity Building
23.   As Burkina embarked on economic reforms in the early nineties, it became apparent that a
number of institutional arrangements and the national capacities were not adequate to transform the



8
state machinery to respond to the demands of a liberalized economic and political system. Burkina's
institutional reforms have been supported by the donor community including by the IDA-financed
Public Institutional Development (PID) project approved in 1992. Major achievements in recent
years have taken place in public finance management with the adoption of a new budgetary
framework and the effective implementation of a computerized public expenditure processing and
monitoring system which covers all current expenditures of all ministries, except payroll and debt
service. Although progress has been slower in other areas such as the civil service and judiciary
reforms, there have been encouraging results including the cleaning of the civil service roster and the
training of some 45 judges and lawyers between 1993 and 1996.
24.    At the end of 1996 the Government launched a second phase of its institutional reform
program with the preparation of two broad pieces of legislation that took time to mature because of a
necessary, wide consultation process: (a) the "comprehensive reform of the state" which i) specifies
the new role of the state and delineates its intervention in the economy; and ii) provides the
framework for a major civil service reform that seeks to introduce more flexibility in the status of
state employees and to revise personnel management regulations substantially; and (b) a
decentralization law that defines the principles and orientations of decentralization in Burkina Faso.
The implementation of these laws constitutes the major institutional challenge for Burkina Fasco in
the coming years. Both call not only for sensitive decisions with political implications, but also for
intensive capacity building within the administration.
D.  BURKINA FASO'S DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES AND REGIONAL
INTEGRATION
25.    The long-term  development prospects of Burkina Faso are limited, and it is likely that
substantial donor transfers will need to continue well into the future. Foreign-financed government
investment has amounted to 9.5 percent of GDP over the past five years.  The Burkinabe
Government is committed to realizing the objective of greater economic competitiveness, together
with closer economic integration within the WAEMU and with the rest of the world; and to
implementing reform programs aimed at addressing structural problems that may contribute to
weaken the competitive position of Burkina Faso and limit its potential to gain both from closer
regional integration and from the forces of globalization. Specifically, these reforms aim at:
privatizing key public enterprises -- especially public utilities; achieving greater competition in the
production and marketing of major agricultural products -- especially cotton, sugar and rice;
restructuring the livestock sector; strengthening natural resource management; modernizing the
public administration, including the judiciary; and improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
public resources allocated to human resource development in general, and to health and education, in
particular.
26.    Following the 1994 CFAF devaluation, Burkina Faso and the other members of the BCEAO
monetary zone have committed themselves to creating an economic union, starting with the
establishment of a customs union, as well as substantial harmonization of tax policies and
investment incentivesl. Over time, the integration is meant to include the harmonization of sectoral
1 The Council of Ministers of the WAEMU decided in December 1997 that a common external tariff (CET) will be introduced in a progressive manner over a
transitory period, starting July 1, 1998. The CET will have to be implemented by all WAEMU countries by January 1, 2000, and will comprise four rates (0
percent, 5 percent, 10 percent, and 20 percent), and a statistical tax of I percent. The maximum import rate is to be reduced to 30 percent on July 1, 1998; 25
percent on January 1, 1999; and, 20 percent in January 1, 2000. See Box 1.



9
policies and strategies. While the potential economic gains are extremely difficult to quantify, the
ambitious integration objectives would in the longer run assist a poor, landlocked and relatively arid
country like Burkina Faso, whose major engine of growth will continue to be its participation in the
larger economies on the coast, especially COte d'Ivoire, where over 3 million Burkinabe already live
and work. Closer integration also gives Burkina Faso a larger regional market for goods in which it
has a clear comparative advantage -- including livestock and garden produce, plus an opportunity to
benefit from more efficient services and industries elsewhere in the zone, and thereby enhance its
overall competitiveness. WAEMU itself offers some assurance that national policies will be both
better designed and more likely to be implemented, as the need to harmonize policies across the
Union will put a limit on the most distortionary policies in individual countries as well as provide a
way of mutually locking in these policy commitments.
27.   Realizing these gains has transitional costs: it will require focused public expenditures,
especially to strengthen the quality of the Burkinabe workforce, as well as adopting policies that will
both encourage and allow more competitive entry into key economic activities. These costs are
likely to increase the financing requirements of the Government in the short run, given on the one
hand the lower taxes on imports, and on the other hand, the need for assistance to businesses and
workers that are dislocated in the process. As only a small portion of these costs are likely to be met
through intra-WAEMU fiscal transfers, greater donor assistance will be needed. This additional
support can be justified, however, only if the members of the Union adopt and implement
appropriately competitive economic policies and only if they manage their public resources
efficiently -- measures which are essential if the countries are to realize the longer term gains of
regional economic integration.
E.  MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
28.   Macroeconomic Objectives. As stated in its Policy Framework Paper (PFP) 1998-2000,
poverty reduction is the Government's top priority. It is to be achieved through sustained economic
growth in the context of accelerated development of the social sectors, supported by the benefits that
are expected to accrue from greater integration of the Burkinabe economy into the region and the
world at large. In order to raise the income levels of the population and foster the development of
human resources and productive potential, the Government has formulated a medium- and long-term
strategy. The major objectives may be summarized as follows: (i) increase per capita GDP by at least
3 percent a year; (ii) double the literacy rate from 20 percent at present to 40 percent in 2005; and
(iii) raise life expectancy to 57 years during the next decade. The macroeconomic objectives for the
period 1998-2000 are to: (i) maintain a real GDP growth rate of about 5.5 percent on average; (ii)
limit inflation to 3 percent per annum; and (iii) reduce the external current account deficit, excluding
grants, to 9 percent of GDP by 2000.
29.   The government intends to continue to pursue its macroeconomic and reform strategy, the
main elements of which are the following:  (i) maintaining macroeconomic stability and
consolidating the recent competitiveness gains; (ii) improving the efficiency of the public sector by
further strengthening tax and customs administration and budgetary procedures, and by stepping up
the reform of the civil service and public enterprises; (iii) reforming the judicial system to ensure
appropriate protection and incentives for private investors; (iv) further reducing the state's role in the



10
economy; and (v) improving human resource development. This strategy requires moderation of
population growth, implementation of policies directed at promoting job creation and at providing
women with a greater role in the development process, and greater access to social services,
especially education, health, safe drinking water, and sanitation services. It also requires a better
management of natural resources through enhanced security of land ownership and training of the
general public in environmental protection techniques.
30.   In order to meet the challenging objectives of reducing poverty and increasing per capita
income, the authorities have stressed the need to: (a) develop and implement a rural development
strategy; (b) develop the mining sector; (c) strengthen the country's human resources; and (d)
accelerate the integration of Burkina into the regional and the world economy. The Bank will
support the Government's development agenda, through lending, non-lending and portfolio
management, to achieve macroeconomic stability, encourage private sector development and
promote the social development of the population, especially of women and children.
31.   Designing a Rural Development Strategy. Agriculture and the other primary sector activities
will continue to be the main source of growth in Burkina Faso, as well as the main revenue-
generating and job-creating activity, accounting for about 30 percent of GDP. Maintaining a
competitive economy will facilitate development of the growth potential of exports such as cotton
and livestock products, and promote the production of nontraditional exports such as fruits and
vegetables. A comprehensive rural development strategy has to address the three root causes of
poverty: (i) a deteriorating natural resource base which is exacerbated by increasing demographic
pressures; (ii) an inadequate economic infrastructure which hinders the diversification of the rural
economy into higher value added products, less dependent on the resource base; and (iii), a deficient
social infrastructure. This is best done by a combination of policy changes to limit public sector
interventions where they add value to private sector activities; of sector- and subsector- specific
support programs which strengthen the delivery of technical and management messages to rural
producers; and by improving the capacities of collectivities to plan and execute development actions
to increase production and incomes, rehabilitate the productive base, and undertake social
investments.
32.   The first phase of the formulation of the rural development strategy which started in 1996,
has been completed, with the definition of seven key strategic objectives which have been endorsed
by a national workshop and by the Council of Ministers. These objectives are: (i) promoting the
private sector in an open market economy; (ii) increasing monetization of the rural economy; (iii)
addressing production constraints faced by farm producers; (iv) improving natural resource
management; (v) supporting professional producer organizations; (vi) improving food security and
fighting poverty; (vii) re-focusing the role of the State in line with a market-based economy and a
decentralized state. Consistent with these key sectoral objectives, a number of priority programs are
being identified or revised by working groups established at the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock, with the view to formulating coherent sector public investment programs. These
programs cover: technology transfer to agriculture and livestock producers; irrigation; rural
infrastructure; mechanization; rural finance; land tenure and land development planning; natural
resource management and soil fertility; and food security and market risk management.



11
33.   A process of consultation with main stakeholders started with meetings held in various
regions and will continue through a national workshop. This workshop will also constitute an
opportunity to invite officials from other sectoral ministries and agencies concerned, in an effort to
coordinate subsectoral programs to ensure complementarity and consistency. In parallel with the
process of program formulation in the various sectoral and subsectoral areas, a national effort is
underway to define a broad-based decentralized strategy of rural development, which will transfer
the main responsibility for priority setting, project selection and their execution to the rural
communities and other grassroots organizations. This second effort is supported by the National
Decentralization Commission and involves a very large cross-section of state and non-state
institutions. Indeed, Burkina's rural development strategy reflects the Government decision to
decentralize a number of functions traditionnally performed by the state, including through the
devolution of responsibilities for the planning and execution of local investment programs to the
community and municipality level. It will cut across several sectors, including not only agriculture,
livestock, and natural resource management, but also infrastructure and the social sectors. It will
need to be supported by a sound policy and institutional support framework in each sector.
34.   Developing the Mining Sector. At present, modern mining is underdeveloped in Burkina.
Yet, after cotton, exports of gold represent the country's largest foreign exchange earner (8 percent
of exports revenues in 1997). The country is well endowed with geological formations which, in
other West African countries (e.g., Mali and Ghana), contain major gold deposits. Due to this
geologic potential many international companies have invested in exploration. Good potential exists
also for small-scale, locally owned mining operations. Given the strong interest in gold exploration
and extraction, the mining sector is expected to expand when world prices recover from their current
level. According to various estimates, when world prices recover to $325/ounce, gold output could
increase by as much as fivefold in the next decade, from the current level of 1.5 metric tons a year.
35.   The Government is aware of the need to maximize the contribution of the mining sector to
the economy. In order to create an environment conducive to investments, significant reforms have
been undertaken during the past three years. A comprehensive policy dialogue among various
stakeholders was conducted and resulted in the adoption of a Letter of Sector Development Policy.
Based on this letter, a new mining law, consistent with international best practices, was adopted in
December 1997. This law redefines government prerogatives in granting and withholding licenses,
limits government participation in mining ventures to 10 percent, and strengthens the security of
tenure of artisanal miners. Following the creation of a Ministry of Energy and Mines in 1995, a
comprehensive study of the roles and mandates of the Ministry and agencies reporting to it was
conducted. Since then, the authorities have been pursuing a policy of attracting investment in the
sector. Thus, the Bureau of Mines and Geology (BUMIGEB), the state agency previously
responsible for all policy, administrative, and geology functions, was fully reorganized: its
responsibilities are now limited to the provision of geological survey services. The gold purchase
monopoly of the state-owned buying office, the Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux (CBMP),
was abolished. Finally, the state-owned gold mine (SOREMIB) was privatized.
36.   It is now necessary for the Government to deepen and consolidate the reforms. Priorities
include: (i) adopting precise mining and environmental regulations in conformity with the new
mining law; (ii) increasing the performance and efficiency of sector institutions; (iii) developing



12
capacity for environmental management; and (iv) upgrading the availability and quality of earth
science information.
37.   Improving Human Capital. Another key aspect of the Government's economic strategy over
the next decade will be to increase labor productivity through the development of human resources
and the creation of an environment conducive to greater private sector development and job creation.
The greater mobility of labor and investment within the WAEMU countries, in light of ongoing trade
liberalization and economic integration, will put pressure on Burkina Faso to upgrade its human
resources. In a more open sub-regional economic environment, the country will need to increase its
supply of skilled workers both for the domestic economy and to capitalize on employment
opportunities that will develop mainly in the coastal economies of the region. Because Burkina's
literacy and gross enrollment rates are still low by Sub-Saharan African standards, greater effort will
be needed to improve the quality and access of primary education and to train adequate technical and
vocational personnel to meet the demands of the emerging industrial sector in the region. Also, the
Government will pursue an ambitious reform program to improve Burkina's poor health indicators.
The strategy over the next years will focus on the implementation of health and education policies
described more fully in paras. 18-22.
38.   Integrating into the Regional and World Economy. In light of the decisions adopted at the
WAEMU level, the Burkinabe authorities are committed to strengthening economic links with
countries of the sub-region. They understand that deriving the benefits of greater regional integration
and taking advantage of labor market flexibility within the union would require improving domestic
and external competitiveness and promoting private sector development. Over the next decade,
Burkina could attract export-oriented firms because of its labor cost competitiveness, which, in spite
of its relatively low productivity, compares favorably with other WAEMU countries (private sector
wages are lower in Burkina). In order to improve competitiveness, the Government needs to deal
much faster with Burkina's high cost of utilities --that is, to accelerate the pace of its sector reform
and privatization program in this area-- and remove the remaining administrative barriers to
investment. The main policy and regulatory constraints that impede foreign investment are currently
under review by the Government in the framework of the Bank-supported private sector assistance
project.
39.   The implementation of the CET according to the WAEMU schedule (see Box 1) will have a
short-term negative impact on international trade and fiscal revenues in Burkina. To offset these
losses, the authorites are committed to: (i) reducing exonerations and exemptions by tightening the
import procedures for foreign-financed projects, for which duties are paid by the Government, that in
the past had given rise to abuses; (ii) improving tax assessment and collection through coordinated
computerized procedures, linking information from customs and domestic tax offices; (iii)
improving taxation of the informal sector; and (iv) accelerating the collection of urban development
fees.
F.  BUDGETARY GAP AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
40.   A prerequisite to the success of the medium-term strategy will be to maintain sound
government finances, notwithstanding the loss of revenue that would result from the implementation



13
of the CET. Also, the targeted economic growth will be sustainable only if it is supported by an
increase in savings and investment. For this reason, the government's fiscal policy will seek to
increase domestic savings; this, combined with the expected inflow of external assistance, will
permit financing an adequate level of investment which, in turn, need to be effectively allocated. The
overall investment ratio is expected to remain at about 25 percent of GDP during the 1998-2000
period.
41.   According to the most recent estimates available, fiscal revenues for 1998 are expected to
amount to CFA 198 billion, compared with projected expenditures and net lending (excluding
proceeds of privatization) of CFA 354 billion resulting in an overall budget deficit of CFA 156
billion on a commitment basis, excluding grants. Adding to that amount CFA 3.5 billion of domestic
arrears repayment and subtracting CFA 99 billion for expected grants, yields a budget deficit (cash
basis) to be financed of CFA 61 billion. Externally-financed projects are expected to contribute CFA
29.5 billion. Taking into account the ESAF program targets for primary surplus and net credit to
government, the remaining budgetary gap will amount to about CFA 15.5 billion ($28 billion).
Exceptional external financial assistance from the European Union, Switzerland, the Netherlands,
Denmark, and IDA through the proposed $15 million adjustment credit are expected to cover the
gap.
3. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURKINA FASO AND COLLABORATION WITH
DONORS
42.   Overall Strategy and Linkages.  The main elements of the Government development
strategy are to (i) maintain macroeconomic stability, (ii) improve human resources development, (iii)
improve the efficiency of the public sector by further strengthening tax and customs administration
and budgetary procedures and by stepping up the reformn of the civil service and public enterprises,
(iv) ensure appropriate protection and incentives for private investors and reform of the judicial
system. This strategy requires implementation of policies directed at promoting job creation and
income growth, and providing greater access to social services, especially in education, health and
sanitation. Agriculture and the rest of the primary sector will most likely continue to be the main
source of growth in Burkina Faso, as well as the main revenue-generating and job-creating activity,
accounting for about 38 percent of GDP. Future Bank support will therefore continue to emphasize
economic management, human resource development and agriculture.
43.   Cumulative Bank Lending to Burkina. The cumulative Bank Group's commitments to
Burkina as of July 30, 1998, amounted to about US$808 million equivalent for 54 operations,
comprising 52 IDA credits totaling US$807 million and 2 IFC investments (US$0.6 million). The
52 IDA credits (40 closed and 12 active) include four adjustment operations (SAC I, Transport
SECAL, Agricultural SECAL and Economic Recovery Credit), twenty agriculture projects, five
education  projects, three  health  projects, eight infrastructure/transport projects, three
telecommunications projects, four urban projects, two mining projects, one public institutional
development project, one financial sector project, and one private sector assistance project. The two



14
IFC investments provided support to two financial institutions (EcoBank-Burkina, FY97; and SGBB,
FY98).
44.   Ongoing Lending Operations. Three ongoing operations support IDA's strategy in the
agriculture sector. An Environmental Management project (US$16.5 million, FY91) supports
increased local capacity for natural resource management. A Food Security project (US$7.5 million,
FY93) aims at reducing Government's response time for reacting to national food emergencies,
improving targeting of food security programs, and improving household coping mechanisms. A
second Agricultural Services project (US$41.3 million, FY98) aims at increasing agricultural
productivity and farmers' revenues, improving natural resource management and promoting
institutional development.
45.   To support human resource development, four ongoing operations are being implemented.
An Education IV project (US$24 million, FY91) assists Government in further improving the quality
of primary and general secondary education, increasing primary school enrollments and
strengthening key sectoral institutions. A Post-Primary Education project (US$26 million, FY97)
supports the implementation of the Government's post-primary education strategy (PPES). In the
health sector, a Health and Nutrition project (US$29.2 million, FY94) assists the Government in its
efforts to improve the quality, coverage and utilization of basic health services, enhance the
nutritional status of the population, develop a national capacity for achieving sustainable control of
endemic parasitic diseases. A Population and Aids Control project (US$26.3 million, FY94) aims at
enhancing the onset of fertility decline by increasing the prevalence of modern methods of
contraception and slowing the spread of HIV infections by promoting behavioral change and treating
STDs. In the urban sector, An Urban Environment project (US$ 37 million, FY95) aims at
improving urban living conditions in executing priority urban works and developing urban services
benefiting low income groups.
46.   With respect to private sector development, the Private Sector Assistance project (US$7
million, FY93) provides institutional assistance to three structures supporting private entrepreneurs,
supports the implementation of the privatization program and the financial sector reform. Given the
recent renewed interest in gold exploration and extraction, the mining sector is expected to expand
when there is a recovery in world prices. A Mining Sector Capacity Building and Environmental
Management project (US$21.4 million, FY97) supports regulatory framework and training,
institutional strengthening and resource management, environmental management and small-scale
artisanal mining.
47.   The Public Institutional Development project (US$15 million, FY92) aims at reinforcing
the major public institutions charged with economic and sector management. Finally, a Transport
Sector Adjustment Credit (US$66 million, FY92) assists the Government in rehabilitating and
maintaining essential transport infrastructure and in improving sectoral efficiency, including the
strengthening of existing institutions, the adoption of sound policy and regulatory measures and the
restructuring of sector parastatals.
48.   Future lending operations. Based on the Country Assistance Strategy's (CAS) approved in
FY96, IDA's proposed lending program for the period FY99-00 consists of six operations totaling
about US$137 million. The proposed program includes a second Structural Adjustment Credit



15
(FY99), a Private Irrigation project (FY99), a Water Supply project (FY99), a Public Works and
Decentralization project (FY99), a Basic Education project (FY00) and a Community-based Rural
Development project (FY00). The lending program for the year 2000 and beyond, including future
adjustment operations, will be reviewed with Government in the next few months in the context of
the preparation of the next CAS.
49.   Aid Coordination. Donor activities are coordinated effectively in a number of operations
under supervision, among others Transport, Health and Nutrition. Close coordination will need to be
maintained in the preparation of the Water Supply project (Ziga operation) for which financing is
sought from more than ten donors. In terms of broader coordination, the last UNDP-organized
roundtable took place in October 1995 in Geneva and the main themes were implementation of
structural adjustment programs, the impact of the CFA devaluation and medium-term development
objectives for Burkina. A social sector roundtable is scheduled for 1999 in Ouagadougou. Another
area of focus for coherent aid coordination will be the decentralization process which is currently
being supported by various donors under different approaches.   The recently approved
decentralization law should provide a framework for harmonization of external assistance in that
area.
50.   Following the SPA meeting in 1996, Burkina Faso was selected as one of the pilot countries
for testing new ways of formulating conditionalities associated with structural adjustment lending.
The purpose of the test is to find ways of improving the predictability of resource transfers through
the harmonization of conditionalities set by the donor community. The Bank has been working
closely with Govemment and other donors in developing performance indicators as well as
monitoring arrangements. The evaluation of the test will take place in the second half of 1999.
51.   Lessons learned. The main objective of the first Structural Adjustment project (approved in
June 1991, closed in June 1995) was to improve public resource management and create incentives
for private sector growth. The ICR found that the adjustment program succeeded in restoring
significant but fragile economic growth. The program was found to be too comprehensive and
thereby to lack coherence. One lesson identified in the report concerns the importance of innovative
approaches to the design of future adjustment operations which would prevent unexpected
difficulties in specific reform areas from slowing down the whole reform process. The ICR also
noted that the private sector can only become the driving force behind Burkina Faso's development
if the Government is fully committed to the privatization program.
52.   The main objective of the Economic Recovery Credit (1994) was to support Burkina's post-
devaluation adjustment program aiming at private sector led growth and poverty alleviation. The
ICR rated this credit as satisfactory and indicated that the success of the operation was due in large
part to its simple design. It noted that in Burkina Faso emergency recovery credits and one tranche
operations in general lend themselves well to support policy reforms that depend on concrete policy
decisions where implementation is not a long process involving a large number of ministries and
implementing agencies.



16
4. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A.    LINK WITH THE CAS AND RATIONALE FOR THE CREDIT
53.   The Burkina Faso CAS was discussed by the Executive Directors on July 11, 1996. The
overall objective of the strategy is reducing poverty. The approach to reach this objective centers on
three axes: (i) increasing income opportunities and productive capacity; (ii) developing the social
sectors through more efficient use and better targeting of public expenditure; and (iii) strengthening
the role of the private sector. A significant part of the Bank's lending and non-lending services has
supported the Government's stabilization and structural adjustment efforts, including those aimed at
regional integration, which is one of the areas where the CAS placed particular importance. The
proposed single tranche credit would underpin an expanded structural reform program and the
regional integration effort.
54.   Given Burkina Faso's continued need for budget support foreseen in the CAS, the proposed
credit will help Burkina Faso to partially offset the reduction of revenue resulting from the
implementation of the WAEMU's new CET regime, while other reforms concerning revenues and
expenditures restore relative fiscal stability. Thus, the proposed credit is an integral part of the
Bank's strategy to assist Burkina Faso in maintaining macroeconomic stability and financial
sustainability, and in gaining competitiveness.  The proposed measures are essential to the
enhancement of Burkina Faso's growth prospects. The reforms supported by the operation are,
furthermore, necessary to create an environment conducive to private sector-led economic growth
while helping to ensure an orderly transition toward greater regional and global integration. Also, by
focusing on revenue mobilization and the reallocation of public resources towards two priority areas,
namely education and health, the operation is expected to ensure that these two key sectors will not
suffer from budgetary cuts during the transition period and have a direct and positive impact on
poverty alleviation.
B.    CREDIT COMPONENTS
55.   The reform program associated with this credit has three major elements: (i) public finance
reform, including progress towards the WAEMU convergence to a CET, and Burkina's full
integration into the regional customs union to be completed on January 1, 2000; (ii) rationalization
of public expenditure management and strengthening of public administration; and (iii), continued
implementation of public enterprise reform. The credit is proposed as both a one-tranche operation
and the first of a series of such operations related to up-front policy reforms that will have been
implemented prior to Board presentation.
56.   As stated in the PFP 1998-2000, the Government has defined a coherent medium-term
reform program aiming at enhancing human resource development, private sector investment and
economic growth within a stable macroeconomic framework conducive to poverty reduction. The
Government's economic reform program is on track and in 1998 is supported by a (second) annual
arrangement under the IMF's Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF), aiming at
consolidating and deepening the stabilization program initiated in 1994. The proposed operation is
based primarily on several specific measures in the areas of taxes, public expenditure management,



17
public enterprise reform and capacity building (see Annex I -- Matrix of Policy Actions). Reforms in
other areas are being implemented or planned with Bank and donor support under other operations.
(I) Public Finance
57.   Despite recent improvements in revenue collection, Burkina Faso continues to be faced with
an inadequate tax structure. Fiscal revenue is highly dependent on a relatively high level of tariffs
which discriminates against exports and undermines the efficiency in the allocation of public
resources. At end-1997, taxes on trade accounted for about 51 percent of total fiscal revenue, taxes
on goods and services for 25 percent, and profit taxes for 20 percent. Tax administration suffers
from some shortcomings related to tax collection, taxpayers ID number and other irregularities that
need to be addressed so as to ensure that tax collection is achieved in an adequate and timely
manner.
58.   The phasing in of the CET is likely to lead --between mid-1998 and 2000-- to significant
revenue losses caused by the cut in the maximum tariff from 31 percent to 20 percent and in the
statistical tax from 4 percent to 1 percent. According to preliminary studies that simply apply the
proposed tariff rate structure to the existing composition of imports without regard to trade creation
from lower external tariffs or trade diversion from the elimination of internal tariffs, these losses
may amount to 3.4 billion FCFA (1.5 percent of the 1997 budget revenues) in 1998; 14 billion FCFA
(6 percent of the 1997 budget revenues) in 1999; and 25 billion FCFA (10.7 percent of the 1997
budget revenue) in 2000. Over the transition period -and after allowing for compensatory measures-
the external tariff cuts would lower budgetary revenue from an estimated 13 percent of GDP in 1998
to an estimated 12 percent of GDP in 2000.
59.   To offset some of the above losses, the authorities are committed to adopting a series of
measures aimed at shifting fiscal resource away from trade and strengthening tax administration by
broadening the tax base through curtailing tax and customs duty exemptions in accordance with the
policy being prepared by the WAEMU, in particular in relation to the envisaged regional
harmonization of the investment code (see Box 1), and strengthening tax administration through the
computerization of six additional custom revenue collection offices before the end of 1998.



18
Box 1. Burkina Faso: External Tariff Reform and New Tax Measures
Tariff Structure  Tariff Structure  Tariff Structure  Tariff Structure
Until June 30,  From July 1998  From January 1, From January 1,
1998        (in percent)       1999            2000
(in percent)                   (in percent)    (in percent)_
Customs rates/categories    I   II  III   I   II  III   I   II  III   I    II  III
External tariff rates                                                         _
a. Customs duty           5    5    5    5    5    5    5   10   25    5   10   20
b. Fiscalduty             0    4   26    0    4   20   --  --   --   --   -- .
c. Statisticaltax         4    4    4    4    4    4    4    4    4    1    1    1
d. Special intervention tax   2    2    2   --  --  --  --  --  --  --   --
Inter-WAEMU tariff rates
Local agricultural           0               0               0               0
products
Eligible industrial      60 percent      60 percent      80 percent      100 percent
products of origin       preference      preference      preference      preference
Non-eligible industrial    -5 percentage    -5 percentage    -5 percentage
products of origin         points          points          points
Total external tariff        1997            1998            1999            2000
revenue
In billions of CFA francs   49.9            50.1            39.9            32.6
In percent of GDP           3.6             3.3             2.4              1.8
Estimated Losses due to      1997            1998            1999            2000
CET
In billions of CFA francs                   3.4              14              25
In percent of 1997 total                     1.5            6.0             10.7
revenue
NEW TAX MEASURES                                                         Impact
(Timing and expected impact)
Increase excise taxes on petroleum products (July 1998)          0.2 percent of GDP
Widening taxation of informal sector, with introduction of withholding tax 0.2 percent of GDP
at customs and at wholesalers (1998-99)
Tightening tax benefits under investment code, in particular concerning    To be assessed in early
the VAT (1998-99)                                                1999; possibly 0.2
percent of GDP
Tightening procedures for tax payments under foreign-financed    To be assessed at end
government contracts (effective June 1998)                       1998
Accelerate collection of urban development fees and introduction of road  0.3 percent of GDP
tolls (effective May 1998)
(ii) Public Expenditure Management and Public Administration
60.   While current expenditure as a share of GDP has declined from 12.7 percent of GDP in 1994
to 10 percent in 1997, investment spending in the health, education and infrastructure sectors has
risen markedly. However, the Government needs to continue to restructure its public expenditures to
ensure adequate funding of priority sectors while containing overall recurrent expenditure and
enhancing the efficiency of public outlays.



19
61.   The Government recognizes the importance of improving public expenditure planning,
management and execution. Enhancing public expenditure efficiency and increasing resource
allocations for the social sectors, in line with policy priorities agreed under the HIPC Final
Document, require new instruments. To strengthen programming and management of public
expenditure, the Government has been developing a Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF), which will be used as a tool to integrate the process of sectoral decision making and budget
allocations according to Government's priorities. Eventually, under the MTEF, sectoral policy
decisions will be integrated within a three-year rolling macroeconomic and public expenditure
framework. The aim of the Government is to implement the MTEF for the health and education
sectors in 1999, for the infrastructure sector in 2000 and for all sectors in 2001.
62.   As part of this program, guidelines for the preparation of the 1999 budget have been issued
indicating both the overall level of expenditure consistent with the PFP 1998-2000 and the indicative
sectoral targets for health and education. In addition, to further strengthen public expenditure
management, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) is already implementing an integrated monitoring
system of recurrent non-salary public expenditure and developing a new public accounting system as
well as a comprehensive monitoring of public expenditures, including debt service, investment and
salaries.
63.   The Government is committed to reforming and modernizing its public administration. To
this end, the National Assembly approved in April 1998 the laws providing for a comprehensive
civil service reform, including those concerning the distribution of responsibilities between the
Central Government and other decentralized levels of Government; the norms for the creation,
organization and management of civil service structures; and the legal regime applicable to civil
servants.  In addition, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) will be reorganized to ensure clear
responsibilities for macro-economic management, including improvement of the statistical capacity.
The reform of public administration has been initiated, with new laws passed. This reform will be
first implemented in the Ministry of Fonction Publique (Civil Service) together with a substantial
program of management and personnel training. The results of this pilot experience would form the
basis for implementing the restructuring and re-staffing of the ministries of Health, Education and
Commerce and later on of all public agencies. Also, the introduction of a single reference file
system for salaries and staff is well on its way and should be completed by end-1999.
(iii) Public Enterprise Reform
64.   Important progress has been made in the privatization of public enterprises (22 enterprises
have been privatized, eight liquidated, and ten more are to be privatized or liquidated before mid-
1999), which is now entering a new phase. The Government is determined to deepen the reform by
completely liquidating public enterprises for which buyers have not been found; putting up for sale
enterprises already slated for privatization; and rehabilitating public utilities companies by
periodically adjusting tariff rates to reflect the cost and efficiency gains of producing these goods
and services. In addition, the Government plans to prepare a comprehensive inventory of its equity
holdings and a strategic analysis of its portfolio with a view to opening up to competition the sectors
reserved to the state until now. In this context, the Government will open up to the private sector the
telecommunications sector by no later than April 1999, and it has also initiated the privatization of
Air-Burkina.



20
C. SPECIFIC ACTIONS REQUIRED FOR THIS CREDIT
65.   The stage for this operation has been set by a number of important decisions already taken or
currently being taken and that will be fully implemented prior to Board presentation to
demonstrate the Government's determination to maintain and consolidate fiscal stability. These
decisions concern the following actions:
* promulgating the Presidential Order (Ordonnance Presidentielle) Mo. 98-001/PRES (i) reducing
the Maximum Tariff from 31% to 25%, thereby implementing the first step toward adoption of
the WAEMU common external tariff; and (ii) eliminating the Taxe Speciale dI'ntervention
(TSI);
* promulgating the VAT act, increasing the VAT rate from 15 to 18%;
* establishing a single tax identification numbering system for all taxpayers to monitor taxpayer
compliance with various taxes as specified in the Borrower's relevant tax legislation;
*  increasing the domestic primary budget surplus by 1.1% of GDP in Fiscal Year 1997, through
expenditure restraints;
*  completing the automation of the customs clearing procedures for imports in the six principal
customs offices;
* promulgating Law No. 038/98/AN, tightening tax collection procedures;
* (a) adopting a budgetary reform program, including budget guidelines for the preparation of the
FY 1999 budget and sectoral ceilings for health (12%) and education (13%), and (b)
strengthening its public expenditure programming and management systems, through the
adoption of budgets for the social and basic infrastructure sectors for each fiscal year, linked to
specific programs in such sectors;
*  adopting macroeconomic forecasts for FY 1998-2000, to ensure coherence between such
forecasts and the FY 1998-2000 budgets;
*  establishing a national committee for the preparation of the MTEF and introducing a three year-
rolling PIP covering FY 1998 to 2000;
3 implementing a program in FY 1998 to assure the coherence between the PIP and sectoral
priorities and strategies;
  (a) divesting 30 state-owned enterprises in, inter alia, the banking sector (BFCI, BIB, and BND-
B); the mining sector ((SMG); the insurance sector (SONAR); and the sugar sector (SOSUCO);
(b) soliciting offers from prospective bidders for the divestiture of an additional four state-owned
enterprises (namely, SLM, SNTB, INB, and SOCOGIB; (c) adopting the Decree No. 98-
267/PRES/PM/MEF, pursuant to which Borrower will divest 30% of its shares in SOFITEX to
private sector cotton producers; (d) promulgating Law No. 008/98/AN, pursuant to which the
Borrower will divest all its shares in SHG; and (e) preparing terms of reference, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, for the preparation of a strategic study on the
divestiture of the remaining portfolio of state-owned enterprises; and
* (a) promulgating the laws on the reform of public administration (No. 020/98/AN, No.
013/98/AN and No. 10/98/AN) to implement a new legal framework for civil service reform
through, inter alia, (i) the definition of the role of permanent civil servants and contractual staff,
(ii) the streamlining of organizational charts and the establishment of precise job descriptions,
and (iii) the introduction of performance indicators, monitoring systems, and merit-based



21
promotions; and (b) the designation of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Function as the pilot
ministry for the implementation of new organizational structures.
D. LOOKING AHEAD
66.   The Bank will closely follow the implementation of the convergence criteria which include
measures already adopted by the WAEMU countries, with a view to furthering the regional
integration process. These measures, other than the multi-year schedule for progressively lowering
external tariffs, are the following: (i) setting up a Fund and compensation mechanisms for member
countries suffering from revenue losses due to the implementation of the new tariff regime; (ii)
setting up a multilateral surveillance device aimed at increasing the convergence of macroeconomic
policies based on a regional statistics program; (iii) harmonizing business laws across the union in
the framework of the Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (OHADA); (iv)
establishing a community investment code; (v) harmonizing domestic indirect taxation and
strengthening control systems; (vi) enhancing regional cooperation in the insurance sector within the
framework of the Interafrican Conference of Insurance Markets (CIMA); (vii) adopting accounting
regulations in conformity to the West Africa accountancy system (SYSCOA); (viii) creating the sub-
Saharan observatory on economics and statistics (AFRISTAT); and (ix) creating a regional stock
exchange market in Abidjan.
67.   Largely because the implementation pace of the convergence criteria within the WAEMU
has not been fully specified, it is currently difficult to be more specific about the specific policy
measures that will be required for the next adjustment operations. It is important to be responsive in
the sequencing of future reforms as to the consensus that develops among UEMOA member
countries.
68.   Monitoring and Likely Triggers for the next SAC. Beyond the progress benchmarks listed
in column six of the attached matrix, the monitoring of the overall reform program will be carried
out in the context of public expenditure review exercises and reviews of the ESAF program.
69.   While the details of the next credit are yet to be worked out with the Burkinabe authorities,
the focus will likely remain on public finance reform, with an emphasis on competitiveness and
poverty reduction. We will continue to coordinate closely with Burkina Faso's development
partners to ensure timely funding for the implementation of these reforms. The next structural
adjustment credit would be triggered by substantial progress, in particular, in the following policy
areas:
*  (i) adoption of a medium-term expenditure framework for the six key ministries identified in the
1999 budget guidelines, and completion of a public expenditure review in education and health
(according to the agreed steps and timetable defined during negotiations);
*  (ii) implementation of the newly adopted "reform of the state" consistent with the MTEF
approach, especially its provisions on the decentralization of the use of a share of public
resources, local recruitment for contractual positions in education and health, and merit-based
promotion system at the national level (next steps and timetable defined during negotiations);



22
* (iii) adoption of the rural development strategy and operational action plans currently under
preparation (timetable defined during negotiations);
* (iv) implementation of the public enterprise reform and privatization program as of December
1998, according to the schedule in the Policy Framework Paper for 1998-2000.
5.   CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION
70.   Credit Amount and Financing. The borrower will be the Government of Burkina Faso.
The proposed amount of IDA financing is US$15 million equivalent, excluding duties and taxes.
This amount is considered necessary to support the momentum of policy reforms in the Burkinabe
economy.
71.   Tranching. The Credit will be disbursed in one tranche of SDR 11 million (about US$15
million), which will be released at credit effectiveness. This one tranche Credit is justified on the
basis of (i) significant up-front policy actions dealing with public finance; and (ii) the drop in fiscal
revenue due to the introduction of the WAEMU's CET.
72.   Disbursements. The borrower will open an account in its Central Bank. Upon notification
of release for the tranche, proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by the Association in this account
at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for
ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance goods or services in the standard negative list), the Association
will require the Borrower to refund the amount to the Credit Account.
73.   Accounting and Auditing. Although routine audits of the accounts related to tranche
disbursements will not be required, the Association reserves the right to seek an audit of the account
from time to time.
74.   Implementation and Monitoring.  The reform  program  under this Credit will be
implemented by the Ministry of Finance. Because this is a one-tranche operation, implementation of
the overall program as well as macro-economic performance, will be monitored in the context of
preparing the following credit, as well as jointly with the IMF through the PFP and bi-annual ESAF
reviews.
75.   Agreements Reached and Conditionalities. The Government has to meet the conditions
referred to in para. 65.
76.   Benefits and Risks. The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's strategy to assist
Burkina Faso in maintaining macroeconomic stability and financial sustainability, and in gaining
competitiveness. The measures involved are essential to the enhancement of Burkina Faso's growth
prospects.  The reforms supported by the operation are, furthermore, necessary to create an
environment conducive to private sector-led economic growth. Also, by focusing on revenue
mobilization and the reallocation of public resources towards two priority areas, namely education



23
and health, the operation is expected to ensure that these two key sectors would not suffer from
budgetary cuts during the transition period, thus avoiding a negative impact on poverty alleviation.
77.   Both the implementation of the proposed policy measures and the regional integration
process would benefit Burkina Faso's growth over the medium and long-term by stimulating
resource mobilization, private investment flows, external trade and also by improving efficiency and
productivity.
78.   The reform program to be supported by the proposed credit faces risks in two areas:
(i) Implementation. The medium-term reform agenda described above, together with measures taken
at the WAEMU level to complete the CET and achieve macroeconomic convergence in the union,
constitute a weighty agenda for the next three years. Their implementation will require full
commitment from the authorities. Given the spectrum of reforms to be undertaken, most notably
increased revenue mobilization through the removal of tax exemptions and the reallocation of
resources towards priority sectors at the expense of other sectors, resistance from special interest
groups will likely remain. However, the risk here is mitigated by the one-tranche design of the
envisaged adjustment credits.
(ii) Declining Export Revenues. Burkina coula also be affected by the East Asian economic crisis.
The bulk of its exports revenues are derived from cotton and gold (almost 60 percent in 1997).
Slower growth in demand for Burkina's exports and greater competition from other cotton and gold
producers would have adverse effects on fiscal revenues and balance of payments. Given the
uncertainty over the short-term economic evolution in East Asia and the unfavorable commodity
price projections for next year, initial estimates of the likely terms of trade impact of the Asian crisis
in Burkina are matters of concern. To mitigate the risk, the regional integration process is moving
forward and structural reforms at the national level are being implemented to improve productivity
and competitiveness.
6. RECOMMENDATION
79.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
October 14, 1998



Annex A
Burkina Faso: Income and Social Indicators
Item              Unit of Measure          Latest single year      Estimate   Est.    Programmed
1970-7  1980-8  1990-9       1996      1997    1998    1999
Population
Population (midyear)           thousands              6,202.  7,881. 10,377.0     10,688.  11,009. 11,339. 11,679.
Population growth rate          annual average in %       2.      2.       2.          3.      3.       3.       3.
Total fertility rate            births per woman          7.      7.       6.          6.
Poverty
National poverty line           local currency            ..       ..       ..      41,09
Urban poverty line             Iccal currency            ..       ..      ..           ..
Rural poverty line             local currency            ..       ..      ..           ..
National headcount index        % of population            ..      ..       ..        45.
Urban headcound index 2/       % of population           ..       ..      ..          7.
Rural headcount index          % of population           ..       ..      ..
Income/consumption
GNP per capita 1/               US$                     150.    180.    230.         220.    218.
Index of real wages
Agricultural
Nonagricultural
Consumer price index            annual average %         18.      7.       7.          6.      2.       2.       2.
Food price index                annual average %           ..     2.      11.           ..
Income/consumption distribution
Share of income or consumption
Lowest quintile                % of income                ..      ..      ..          5.
Highest quintile               % of income                ..      ..      ..         65.
Gini coefficient                                                                    0.6
Social Indicators
Share of public expenditure     % of GDP
Hea!th                                                    ..      ..      1.          2.      2.       2.
Education                                                                 1.          1.      2.       2.       ...
Social security and welfare
Gross primary school enrollment
Total                          % of school age group    16.     29.      38.         40.     42.      45.      48.
Male                          % of school age group    12.     21.      30.           ..
Female                        % of school age group    21.     36.      47.         30.     33.      35.      40.
Access to safe water
Total                          % of population          25.     35.        ..         7.
Urban                         % of population           ..       ..      ..           ..
Rural                         % of population           ..       ..      ..           ..
Immunization (under 12 months)
Measles                       % of age group             ..    38.      55.         57.      70.     75.      80.
DPT                           % of age group             ..      2.     47.          50.     60.     70.      75.
Child (under 5) malnutrition rate    % of age group       ..       ..       ..         3.
Life expectancy at birth (years)
Total                          years                    41.     44.      48.         49.     51.      52.      53.
Male                         years                    39.      43.     45.           ..
Female                       years                    42.      46.     47.           ..
Infant mortality rate           per 1,000 live births   137.    117.      99.           9
Under-5 mortality rate          per 1,000 live births      ..       .   164.           15
Male                         per 1,000 live births      ..      ..       ..          ..
Female                       per 1,000 live births      ..      ..       ..          ..      ..
Adult (I 5-59) mortality rate   per 1,000 population     24.      19.     18.           ..      ..
Births assisted                 %                          ..      ..    32.           3.       ..
Maternal mortality rate         ver 100.000 live births   ..   600.    939.           93.       ..
1/ World Bank Atlas method.
2/ Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
Sources: Social Indicators of Development, 1996 Edition; and World Bank staff estimates.



Annex B
Page 1 of 2
Burkina Faso: Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Actual  Estimate    Projectd
Indicator                                       1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996   1997   1998
National Accounts
(as % of GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product                          100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                                    33.4    32.3    33.9       32.5    32.0    32.8   30.2   28.7
Industry                                       19.8    21.4    21.3       25.5    24.7    23.8   25.2   26.0
Services                                       46.7    46.2    44.7    41.9        43.3    43.4   44.6   45.3
Total consumption                                93.9    92.8    95.0      93.9     92.8    92.5   90.8   88.8
Gross domestic fixed investment                 20.6    22.2       18.7    21.0     22.3    24.5   26.3   25.4
Government investment                           6.3      9.0      8.0      7.0      9.3    10.9   12.5   12.5
Private investment                             14.3    12.2      11.8     12.3    13.2    13.8   13.7   12.9
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports GNFS                                     12.1     10.1     11.6     13.2     13.0    12.2   13.6   16.1
Imports GNFS                                    26.6    24.2    26.3       26.3    28.3    29.5   30.6   30.4
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                         2,789    2,990    2,811    1,854    2,355    2,538  2,448   2,626
(US$ million at current market prices)
Gross national product per capita                300      210      210      180      230      220    218
(US$, ATLAS method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices          10.0     2.5      -0.8     1.2      4.0      6.0    5.5    6.2
Gross domestic income                            8.8      2.1     -0.8      1.6      4.6      4.5    5.7
Real annual per capita growth rates
(%, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices          6.9    -0.3    -3.5        -1.6     1.0      3.2    2.8    3.3
Total consumption                                 6.0    -1.5    -1.3       -2.8     0.0      2.7    1.0
Private consumption                              6.0    -2.1      -1.2      -3.5     1.7      3.9    1.7
Balance of Payments
(US$M)
Exports (GNFS)                                   337      302      326      244      306      310    333    423
Merchandise FOB                                269      238      263      188      237      231    256    334
Imports (GNFS)                                   743      724      740      488      667      747    749    798
Merchandise FOB                                490      516      540      349      485      560    556    608
Resource balance                                -405    -422      -415     -243     -361     -438   -416   -375
Net current tranfers                             227      355      308      232      239      196    155    127
Current account balance                          -90      -43      -66       30    -133    -253   -249   -253
(after official capital grants)



Annex B
Page 2 of 2
Burkina Faso: Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Actual  Estmate      Projected
Indicator                                        1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996   1997    1998
Net private foreign direct investment              22        9       10       24       20       22     16      14
Long-term loans (net)                             107       94       97       91      110       83     66      85
Official                                         85       85       88       66       91       61      50      71
Private                                          22        9       10       24       20       22      16      14
Other capital (incl. errors and omissions)        -19       -8       -8      -11       65        5      -4      0
Change in reserves                                -35      -23      -55       13      -77        -4    -3    -26
Memorandum items
Resource balance
(%ofGDPatcurrentmarketprices)                   12.1     10.1     11.6     13.2     13.0     12.2   13.6   16.1
Merchandise exports                               7.0    -15.3     11.0    -31.0      16.4     2.1   17.2   27.4
Primary                                        -13.1    -11.1    -14.5     -1.6     31.4     -4.3   21.5
Merchandise imports                             -11.6      1.1      4.9    -37.6     28.5     20.6    5.2      6.8
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current market prices)
Current revenues                                 13.3     11.7     12.5     11.0      11.6     12.3   13.0   13.0
Current expenditure                              12.0     11.8     14.8     12.7      11.2     10.4   10.1    10.5
Current balance                                   1.3    -0.1      -2.3      -1.7      0.4      1.9    2.9    2.5
Capital expenditure                               7.2        9        8        7       9.3     10.9   12.5    12.5
Foreign financing                                 6.4      7.6      6.9      6.1      8.3      9.6    9.7      9.8
Monetary indicators
M2 / GDP (%, GDP at current market prices)       20.6     21.8     23.4     23.5     25.5      25.0   26.5   27.0
Growth of M2 (%)                                  -4.7     6.3      8.1     29.9     23.7       8.2   14.1    10.4
Private sector credit growth I                 -253.4    101.7    174.4       ..  -142.1      69.3   68.7   142.0
total credit growth (%)
Price indices
Merchandise export price index (1995=100)        59.5     60.0     57.9     88.6    100.0      95.9   97.6   93.4
Merchandise import price index (1995=100)        88.2     90.4     89.0     92.3    100.0    100.1   94.1    92.6
Merchandise terms-of-trade index (1995=100)      67.5     66.4     65.1     96.0    100.0      95.8  103.8   100.8
Real exchange rate (1 990=1 00 based on US$/CFAF)  89.7   90.0     85.5     53.8     60.7     64.6   62.4   60.5
Consumer price index (% growth rate)              2.5      -2.0     0.6     25.2       7.4      6.2    2.3    2.5
GDP deflator (% growth rate)                      -5.0     -1.8     1.4    27.8        9.8      4.2    2.0    2.0



Annex C
Burkina Faso: External Financing Requirements and Resources, 1994-2000
(In billions of CFA francs)
1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999     2000    1998-2000
Prog.    Prog.    Prog.       Average
Requirements                       192.5    243.4    196.0    184.5    214.4    219.4    232.6            222.1
Current account deficit,
excluding official transfers    89.3    132.8    173.8    176.1    164.4    167.2    168.4             166.7
Debt amortization 1/              20.9     24.4      18.4     20.7      21.3      22.5     25.5          23.1
IMF repurchases                    0.0       0.0      0.5       1.0      1.7       3.1      5.9           3.6
Arrears (increase-)               17.3       1.4      0.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0           0.0
Change in net foreign
assets (increase+) 2/           64.8      84.9      3.1    -13.3      26.9      26.7      32.8          28.8
Resources                          192.5    243.4    196.0    184.5    214.4    219.4    232.6            222.1
Official transfers (current and cap    105.8    113.3    126.4    115.2    115.0    119.7    124.9      119.8
Long-term public loan
disbursement (gross)            57.8      69.6     49.7      49.3     62.1      61.0      66.0          63.0
Of which: World Bank 3/       28.8      21.6      0.0       0.0     12.0       6.0      6.0            8.0
Private capital (net)              7.3     42.4      13.8       6.5      8.3       8.9      6.9           8.0
Debt rescheduling                  7.7       4.6      1.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0           0.0
Debt under discussion 4/           ...      ...       ...       2.8      2.8       2.8      2.8           2.8
UseofIMIFresources                13.9      13.5      4.9      10.6     10.7      10.5     10.5          10.6
SAF                              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0           0.0
ESAF                            13.9      13.5      4.9      10.6     10.7      10.5     10.5          10.6
Exceptional financing 5/           0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     15.5      16.6     21.5          17.9
Memorandum item:
CFA francs per SDR (average)     782.9    757.2    743.4    802.0    807.3    794.0    791.2            797.5
Sources: Burkinabb authorities; and staff estimates and projections.
1/ Scheduled debt service, before debt relief.
2/ Excluding use of Fund resources (net).
3/ Adjustment loans.
4/ Debt in negotiation with non-Paris Club creditors.
5/ Adjustment loans and grants.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Burkina Faso
Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                      Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 36
Active Projects
BF-PE-296        1998   GOVERNMENT                        AG SERVICES II               0.00       41.30             0.00          40.56     4.62        0.00
BF-PE-283        1997   GVT OF BURKINA                    MINING CAPACITY              0.00       21.40             0.00          19.10       .72       0.00
BUIL
BF-PE-304        1997   GOVT OF BURKINA FASO              POST-PRIMARY EDUC.           0.00       26.00             0.00          23.37     3.01         0.00
BF-PE-297        1995   GOVERNMENT                        URBAN ENV                    0.00       37.00             0.00          26.91     8.36         8.33
BF-PE-287        1994   BURKINA FASO                      HEALTH/NUTRITION             0.00       29.20             0.00          16.29     7.75        0.00
BF-PE-308        1994   GOVT OF BURKINA FASO              POPULATION/AIDS              0.00       26.30             0.00          14.51     7.73         0.00
CONT
BF-PE-289        1993   BURKINA FASO                      PRIVATE SECTOR                0.00        7.00            0.00           4.16     4.10         0.00
ASSIS
BF-PE-303        1993   GOVT                              FOOD SECURITY                 0.00        7.50            0.00            .77       .02        0.00
BF-PE-276        1992   BURKINA FASO                      TRANSPORT SECAL               0.00      66.00             0.00          18.39    15.51         7.61
BF-PE-301        1992   GOVERNMENT                        PUBLIC                       0.00       15.00             0.00           7.31      6.78        0.00
INSTITUTIONAL
BF-PE-282        1991   BURKINA FASO                      EDUCATION IV                  0.00      24.00             0.00            .32    -1.75         0.00
BF-PE-290        1991   BURKINA FASO                      ENVIRONMENTAL MGMT            0.00       16.50            0.00           2.44      2.76        1.26
Total                                                                                   0.00     317.20             0.00         174.13    59.61        17.20
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  143.36              557.29               700.65
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                32.84               32.84
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  317.20              489.30               806.50
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                 1.85                1.85
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                1.85                 1.85
Total Undisbursed                :               174.13                  .15              174.28
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first weeR of the month.
(D
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Anmex E
Burkina Faso
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the project      7 months
Appraisal:                             September 1998
Negotiations:                          October 1998
Board Presentation:                    November 1998
Effectiveness Date:                    November 1998
Closing Date:                          June 30, 1999



BURKINA FASO: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Strat     aid,Ac.tio. 4s4 18                                                                                   ***
Public Finance
Tax structure and    Maintain the domestic  The domestic primary surplus was   Improve revenue performance,   1998-2000             Achievement of the
Tax Administration    primary current balance increased by I percentage point of   through improved tax administration              main fiscal targets for
in surplus, consistent   GDP in 1997 through expenditure    (started) and strong control/                      1998-00
Expand the tax base,   with the            restraint.                       elimination of exemptions on import
enhance the efficiency  macroeconomic                                       duties under the investment and minin                   Implement withholding
of the tax system and   program.           Initial step towards a Common    codes.                                                  tax at the import and
strengthen tax                             External tariff (CET) per WAEMU                                                          wholesale stages to be
administration       Introduce Comnmon     agreement was adopted (7/1/98)   Introduction of withholding at customs                  applied against profit
Extemal tariff (CET)                                   and on purchases from wholesalers, to                  tax (99)
per WAEMU            The VAT rate was increased from 15  be applied against profit taxes  1998
agreement            percent to 18 percent (1996).                                                             Abolish exemptions in
Evaluate fiscal exemptions and prepare                 respect of indirect tax
The tax identification numbering  action plan for their gradual                          and taxes on
system has been established for all   elimination.(started)        1999                  intemational trade unde
taxpayers so as to monitor                                                               the investment code (99
compliance by taxpayers with the    Implement procedures to replace
various taxes as specified in the  exemptions for purchases made                         Adopt new
relevant tax legislation. (1997)  through externally funded projects by                  categorization for
a procedure of refunding taxes, duties                 products (99)
Maximum tariff was reduced from 31  and levies paid in connection with suc  1998-1999
percent to 25 percent (7/98)     procurement.(started)                                   Reduce maximum tariff
from 25 percent to 20
Promulgated law tightening tax   Improve VAT administration (started). 1998-99           percent. (00)
collection procedures.
Reduce Statistical tax:
The Special Intervention Tax was    Increase excises on petroleum                        from 4 percent to I
abolished. (7/98)                products, tobacco and beverages   1998-00               percent (00).
(started).
1-d>
Measures in parentheses refer to measures to be implemented before Board Presentation - Parentheses will be removed in final version.                       (D P
2 Some of these actions are already in progress, as indicated in parenthesis.
hh



BURKINA FASO: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
New tariffs reflected in
The automation of the Customs-   Eliminate procedural delays in the  1998-99              the Budgct Law and all
clearing procedure for imports was   taxation of defaulters and in recovery              implcmentation decrees
finalized (1997).                operations (started).                                    adopted (99-00)
Strengthen the Tax Audit unit (started)
Reinforce cross-checking procedures  1998-99
between Customs and Taxes to assess
the performance of the tax system. (st)
Complete the computerization of all  2000
border customs offices.
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE  Improve budgetary      Budget Guidelines for the preparation Computerized system will be installed 1998-99        Maintain current
MANAGEMENT           planning, control and   of the 1999 budget were issued with  in key ministries.(started)                         expenditure at about
monitoring systems.   indicative sectoral ceilings for health                                                   10.5 percent of GDP
Improve the efficiency                     (12 percent) and education (13                                                             (99-00)
and effectiveness of                       percent).
public expenditures to                                                                                                                Prepare objective based
reflect the overarching  Develop and       A MTEF limited to key-sectors is    Further increase the efficiency and                    budget for the ministrie
priority of poverty  implement a result-    being prepared. It includes a three-   sustainability of public expenditures              of Health, Finance,
reduction.           oriented MTEF based   year rolling plan for allocation of    through the preparation and                         Interior, Defense,
on sectoral policies and  resources                    implementation of a MTEF for:                            Primary Education and
Ensure coherence     fiscal discipline.                                        - Health and Education (started)  1999                 Secondary/Technical        P
between                                     Coherence of PIP with sectoral     - Infrastructure                 2000                  education (99-00)           c
macroeconomic         Develop system of ex-  priorities and strategies assured in                                                                                   c
framework and a       post evaluation of    1998                              Strengthen selection/preparation of    1998-00          Increase and maintain
medium-term           outcomes.                                              investment projects (started)                            share of health sector in  o I
expenditure framework                       Macroeconomic forecasts for 1998-                                                         GOB budget to 12
(MTEF)                                      2000 were prepared and coherence   Implement a computerized monitoring                    percent (99-00)
with 1998-2000 budgets and IMF-    system for investment expenditure,    1999
ESAF criteria was respected      wage bill and overall debt service.



BURKINA FASO: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objectives   ~Stratkgies and                 Acti %%ons                         AtnsThngoAgt* 
,~~~Mosrs                               Aled  Tae           :1+~            %b   ae~4 ts>~j~;
Develop select performance indicators                  Increase and maintain
for :share of education secto
- education and health, (started)  1999                in GOB budget to 13
- Agriculture and livestock.    2000                  percent (99-00)
Design/adopt a monitoring system of                    Set sectoral spending
budget implementation and ex-post   1999-00            targets based on
evaluation.                                            standard cost-analysis
and consultations with
Produce quarterly projections of                       beneficiaries/donors
financing requirements/allocation  1998-00             (99-00)
taking into account potential fragility
of revenue due to the implementation                    Prepare sectoral
of the CET. (started)                                  financial envelopes
consistent with
Prepare projections and provision in a                 macroeconomic
quaxterly basis counterpaTt       1998-00              projections (99-00)
funding/recurrent costs for all donor-
assisted projects (started)
PUBLIC EN       t ERPRI. REFORM
Complete the second-   Accelerate the      As of June 1998, (30) state-owned    Cabinet will submit to Parliament an                Further reduction in the
phase of public      divestituTe pTogram and companies have been divested.   amendment to the (Statutory                            size of the public sector.
enterprise reform with   move with next phase                                Corporations Act) which would allow
the objective of moving by targeting       List of 10 more PEs to be         for the strengthening of the existing    1998          Adequate progress with
away from state      economically          privatized/liquidated issued     institutional framework and a                           the privatization
management of those   significant state-owned                                streamlining of the decision-making                    program, including            r 
activities that can be    enterprises.                                      process for divestiture.                                outsourcing of all new    
better performed by the                                                                                                              1998 divestitures.        w
private sector.      Increase the                                           Complete the second-phase of                            Put up for sale the        o
transparency and                                       privatization initiated in Nov. 1994    mid-99          Government's equity        Fh



BURKINA FASO: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM SUPPORT OPERATION
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
accountability of the                                                                                           holdings in ONATEL
divestiture program.                                   Continue to adjust the rate schedules                    (99).
of the public utilities enterprises,
Strengthen the legal                                   SONABEL (electricity), ONEA        1998-00
framework and the                                      (water) and SONAPOST (postal
environment for private                                services) to take into account changes
participation in the                                   in their costs, and efficiency.
generation and
distribution of public
services.
N S TI T U T  *3                 -e.        _  _    _    _  _    _     _                              -
Improve efficiency in   To restructure the  National Assembly has approved the  Reorganize the MOF and the      1999                  Implement reform in
the provision of public  public employment  civil service reform legislation.  Statistical Office. (started)                          the ministries of
services and of the  system, increasing                                                                                               Finance, Education,
functioning of central  rewards for         Ministry of Fonction Publique has    Harmonize the payroll register with   1999           Health and Commerce
Govemment.           performance,          been selected as pilot case for public  the civil service register with a view            (00).
measuTing output, and   administration reform.         to merging the two (started)
rationalizing the                                                                                               Single reference file
regulation of the public  Ministries of Finance, Education,  Begin public administration reform    1999         system implemented.
sector.              Health and Commerce identified for  with the ministry of Fonction                          (99)
public administration reform.    Publique (started)
Begin the decentralization of services. 1999-2000
(DP
0q 



Annex G
Page 1 of 2
Burkina Faso at a glance                                                                  9121/98
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Burkina   Saharan      Low-
Faso     Africa   income      Development dlamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        10.9       614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     240        500       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        2.6       309       722                        T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                          2.8       2.7       2.1
Labor force (5/6)                                       2.1       2.6       2.3      GNP                              Cross
per    --primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                capita              ,        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   45
Urban population (%l of total population)               17         32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        46         52        59                       l
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)               97         90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              33         ..        61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  78         44        71
Illiteracy ('Y of population age 15+)                   81         43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   38         75        91                   Burkina Faso
Male                                                  46         82       100                   Low-income group
Female                                                30         67        81    .    ,  ,.  ....  .  ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratloa*
GDP (US$ billions)                           0.87       1.9       2.4       2.6
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                25.8      21.6      24.8      25.4                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             9.3       9A4      12.2      13.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    6.5      -1.4       7.5       9.2
Gross national savings/GDP                    6.5       9.4      12.7      14.1
Current account balance/GDP                  -13.4    -12.2     -12.6      -10.6     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         0.2       0.6       0.6       0.6                                  Investment
Total debVGDP                                 9        34.3      53.5                Savings
Totaldebtservice/exports                       3.0     10.1      11.3        ..                        l
Present value of debtfGDP                       ..       ..      27.2
Present value of debVexports                   ..        ..    152.5
Indebtedness
1976486  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.6      3.0       6.0       5.5       5.6                   Burkina Faso
GNP per capita                       1.2      0.0       3.2       2.9       3.0                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        2.6      0.4       1.8      14.2       5.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(%6 of GDP)
Agriculture                                  34.8      33.4      34.8      32.1     40
Industry                                     30.1     22.1       25.2      26.8
Manufacturing                               19.6     16.2         ..               20
Services                                     35.1      44.5      40.0      41.0      o    _
-20-    92              95   90   97
Private consumption                          82.0      86.9      79.3      78.5    -40
Generalgovemmentconsumption                   11.4     14.5      13.1      12.3                -GDI    --'-GDP
Imports of goods and services                28.5      32.4      29.5      30.1
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%j
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.2      3.6       7.4       0.7    30
Industry                                      2.0       1.1       3.3      10.6    20
Manufacturing                                2.6       ..         ..        ..    10s
Services                                      7.6       2.9       6.5       8.0      o
Pnvate consumption                            3.1       2.6       2.6       5.7   -10            9  943   95   96   97
General govemment consumption                 7.3       1.6       2.6       s.7   -20
Gross domestic investment                     5.4       2.4      35.0       0.2   -30
Importsofgoods and services                   3.8       0.4       9.8       0.9                    Exports  -s---mports
Gross national product                        3.7       2.8       6.0       5.7
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex G
Page 2 of 2
Burkina Faso
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                     3
(% change)                                                                            T
Consumer prices                                 ..    -2.7        6.1      2.3      20
Implicit GDP deflator                         6.7    -7.3         4.5      2.0      10
Government finance                                                                    _     _     _       _     _     _
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                     94   95   96   97
Current revenue                             144.1     10.6       14.4      13.7    .10
Current budget balance                       62.0      0.0        4.0      3.6              -     GDP deflator -e--cPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     -36.5   -21.8        -7.2     -9.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..       ..       231       251     694
Cotton                                        ..       ..        97       128
Meat                                          .                  65       57       5 
Manufactures                                                                -    416
Total imports (cif)                             .                560       544     27
Food                                          .        .         88       70
Fuel and energy46                                                         5       13
Capital goods                                 .        ..       187      183       e 
91   92  93   94   95   96   97
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..        98       102
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       105       110              o Exports     mi Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..        93        93
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS5 millions)                              1976    1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 100      176       310       331 o+
Imports of goods and services                 244      605       748       721     -2  91  92  93  94   95   96  97
Resource balance                             -144     -429       -438     -390     -4 l
Net income                                     -8       10        -11       -5     -6.
Net current transfers                          37      191       143       123     L_                       l
Current account balance                      -116    -228        -306     -272    -10 -
Financing items (net)                         117      276       303       233    -12                            L
Changes in net reserves                        -2      -48         3        39    -14 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..    234         445       350
Conversion rate (DEC, localWUS$)            239.0   346.3       536.8    543.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997                                             _
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1996 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           85      640      1,294
IBRD                                          0        0         0                            F 4  G:53
IDA                                          17      186       636       636             E: 34
Total debt service                              5       37        49
IBRD                                          0        0         0
IDA                                           0        3         9         9
Composition of net resource flows                                                           (          /:636
Official grants                              26      112       237         ..        D:386/
Official creditors                           23       82        73
Private creditors                             2       -7         0         ..
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..         ..        .                  \
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0                                c s
World Bank program
Commitments                                  29        0         0        47     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 7       32        50        42     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        1         4         5     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     7       32        46        37
Interest payments                             0        2         4         5
Net transfers                                 7       30        42        33
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/21/98



Annex H
BURKINA FASO
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
AND FINANCE
Technical Secretariat for
Coordination of Economic and
Social Development Programs
To: THE PRESIDENT
WORLD BANK GROUP
Re:  Burkinabe Development Policy Letter
To Mr. Wolfensohn
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
I am pleased to inform you that the Government of Burkina Faso intends to
pursue its adjustment efforts over the next few years to strengthen the foundations for its
growth and to reduce poverty. With these objectives in mind, in August 1998 a new
program for 1998-2000 was submitted to the Executive Boards of the International
Monetary Fund and the World Bank, for their approval. However, the government is
aware of the fact that in addition to its adjustment efforts, it must also make clear
economic and social policy choices. It must also make clear decisions as to the roles to
be played by the various entities involved in conducting economic and social policy, and
particularly with regard to revising the role of the central government and promoting the
private sector.
I.    Recent Economic Developments
The economic and social situation in Burkina Faso has markedly improved in
recent years. The country has embarked on a process of reform designed to lay the
groundwork for sustainable economic and social development. Substantial progress has
been achieved in implementing the three agreements with the IMF, including one SAF
arrangement in 1991 and two ESAF arrangements put in place in 1993. The World Bank
has been assisting the government in its efforts by putting in place an adjustment credit in
1992, an economic recovery loan (CARE) following the devaluation of the CFAF in
January 1994, and two important sectoral programs in the fields of transportation
(PASECT) and agriculture (PASA).
Growth in GDP, which was only 2.7% during the initial period of 1985-94,
recorded a sharp upswing in 1995 (+4%), to achieve an unprecedented gain of 6.2% in
1996. This dynamic rise is attributed for the most part to the fast pace of growth in the
agricultural sector, which climbed from a rate of 2% a year between 1991 and 1994 to



over 6% for the 1995-97 period. More specifically, it resulted from the increase in
exports of livestock and cotton, which advanced at an annual rate of more than 13%
during that time.
The economy continued to grow in 1997, but at a slower pace of 5.5%, as a result
of poor weather conditions. The consumer price index showed a downward trend. Thus
the inflation rate, which rose as high as 29% in 1994, on the heels of the CFAF
devaluation, declined to 6.1% in 1996, and then to 2.3%, because of a cautious wage
policy and low worldwide levels of inflation. The sound public finance policy pursued
led to a primary surplus starting in 1995, which was equivalent to 1.1% of GDP in 1997.
The current account balance deteriorated slightly following an upswing in imports in
1996 and 1997, linked to important public works and construction projects. Despite these
encouraging results, Burkina still has considerable work to do to reduce the poverty
which affects nearly half of its population-45%, according to the poverty profile
developed in 1995. This should be done as part of an effort to enhance regional
integration, which will require the country to increase the competitiveness of its
economy.
II.   Development Objectives and Strategies for the Next Ten (10) Years
At an average annual growth rate of 1% over the past decade, the performance of
the agricultural sector, the engine of economic development, continues to fall short of
what is needed to alleviate the impact of poverty, especially in rural areas. This below-
par performance is attributed in large part to the predominance of subsistence farming,
which is prevalent in 88% of the land under cultivation, to a weak institutional
environment, and to sectoral policies which have long been characterized by excessive
intervention by the public sector.
In light of this situation, the government decided to implement a development
strategy designed to reduce poverty. The main features of this policy are outlined in the
Sustainable Human Development Policy Letter (LPDHD), which has set targets of a per
capita GDP growth rate of 3%, a sharp increase in life expectancy of 10 years by the year
2005, and a significant improvement in the literacy rate, from 20% to 40%. In addition to
maintaining the fundamental balances and increasing efficiency, the key elements of the
underlying strategy to achieve these goals have to do with improving the economic,
institutional, and legal environment of the private sector and accelerating the growth of
the agricultural sector-6% to 7% a year for the text ten years.
Improving the efficiency of the public sector. There are two major challenges
to cope with in this effort: the loss of tax and customs revenue as a result of the entry
into force of the common external tariff (CET) of the WAEMU; and, the competitiveness
of domestic companies. The loss of tax revenues is estimated to amount to 0.3% of GDP
in 1998, or CFAF 4.5 billion, 1% of GDP in 1999, or CFAF 15 billion, and 1.7% of GDP
by the year 2000 (CFAF 30 billion). The other challenge to the public sector has to do
with the problem of defining the role of government in the business world. This raises a



number of questions, such as the following ones. What should be liberalized? What
sectors should be privatized? How should responsibilities be divided between the central
and local govemrnments?
Improving the legal framework and developing the private sector. The
government has initiated consultations with private economic operators. It is planning to
maintain an ongoing exchange of views to ensure that the private sector is more closely
involved in the decision-making process. As far as the legal situation is concerned, and
in order to give the private sector a secure environment in which to operate, the
govenmment intends to strengthen the judicial system by hiring judges and ancillary legal
personnel, providing initial and continuing training for them, and creating commercial
courts.
The strategy of boosting growth in the farm sector was adopted in January 1998 in
a paper on strategic guidelines which focused on the following areas: (I) promoting the
emergence and development of rural markets; (ii) modernizing fanns and livestock
operations; (iii) enhancing the professionalism of the agricultural sector; (iv) ensuring the
sustainable management of food and nutritional resources; (v) increasing food and
nutritional security; (vi) improving the economic status of women in rural areas; and (vii)
reforming the role of the national government and promoting private enterprise in rural
development sectors. The government set specific objectives for the livestock subsector
in a policy paper adopted in November 1997.
To achieve these objectives, government policy will focus on the following
strategic guidelines: (I) maintaining a stable macroeconomic situation; (ii) improving the
efficiency of the public sector by further strengthening the tax and customs departments
and budget procedures, while at the same time stepping up the pace of reform of
government administration and government enterprises; (iii) continuing the reforn of the
judicial system, to provide adequate protection for and incentives to private investors; (iv)
pursuing efforts aimed at pulling the government out of competitive sectors; and (v)
implementing sectoral policies in the areas of environment, population, advancement of
the economic role of women, and access by the people to basic social services, including
education, health, drinking water, and sanitation.
III.   Sectoral Policies
The challenges of integration in the area of govemment finance should lead the
government to adopt the measures required to contain current expenditures at 10% of
GDP and govemment-financed investment expenditures at 2.7% of GDP, so that a
positive primary balance can be achieved for the period.  Compensatory revenue
measures can only partially make up for the anticipated losses.  So to maintain
macroeconomic balances in the area of public finance, the government will take the steps
required to contain current spending and govermment-financed investment spending at
these levels, so that the primary balance will be positive for the period.



1.       Restructuring public spending
It will be possible to keep current expenditures at 10% of GDP because of a
cautious wage policy and tighter control over expenditures on equipment and current
transfers. At the same time, care will be taken to make the necessary allocations to the
priority sectors of basic education and health, and to ensure road maintenance.
To enhance the efficiency of budget management, the government has adopted a
new approach, based on the program-budget concept, or the concept of budgeting by
objectives, along with performance indicators to measure the impact of public spending.
The budget circular for the 1999 fiscal year requires all ministries to make an effort to
submit their preliminary budgets following the format of a program budget. More
specifically, this measure is compulsory for six pilot ministries, namely, health, primary
education, secondary and higher education and scientific research, land use management,
defense, and economy and finance. This approach will foster the gradual introduction of
a medium-term expenditure program (CDMT), which will improve the allocation of
budget revenues. As for the Public Investment Program (PIP), a study will be conducted
to improve preparation, implementation, and monitoring of that program. The plan of
action that will come out of the recommendations of the study should be ready by the end
of March 1999 at the latest.
While awaiting the conclusions of that study, and with a view to increasing the
volume and the effectiveness of public investment, the government will continue to place
special emphasis on improving project implementation. To this end, it intends to
accomplish the following: (I) ensure that sectoral strategies are completed; (ii) gradually
expand the use of program-budgeting; (iii) enforce the new government contract
regulations, especially at local level; (iv) implement measures designed to make project
managers more accountable; (v) improve the programming of annual project activities
and national counterpart expenditures and recurrent expenditures; (vi) strengthen the
financial and accounting systems for public investment projects; and (vii) pursue efforts
to improve the monitoring of physical and financial implementation of the PIP. The
three-year investment program will continue to be in line with the macro-economic
outlook for 1998-2000. To this end, the govermment, with the support of the World Bank,
will proceed every year with an analysis of the three-year sliding investment program. It
will give priority to development of the social sectors and will emphasize rehabilitation
and maintenance of existing infrastructure and an improvement in support services to
promote the private sector.
2.       Redeployment of expenditures to the benefit of education and health
The low level and poor coverage of health services in the country present a huge
obstacle to Burkina's development. Aware of this situation, the goverm-nent has made the
development and improvement of human resources one of the cornerstones of its policy.
This decision has been reflected in an increase in government budget allocations to these



two sectors. The budget share going to the Ministry of Primary Education and the
Ministry of Health has risen from 16.40% in 1992 to 22.13% in 1997.
In the field of education, the government has acknowledged the need to develop
all levels of education, but has decided to focus its efforts on primary education. Its
policy in this subsector is working towards the following objectives: (I) increasing the
availability of education; (ii) reducing the inequality in schooling rates between boys and
girls, and from one regions of the country to the next; (iii) improving the quality of
education; and (iv) increasing the literacy rate, especially among women. The following
quantitative targets were set: a) bring overall school attendance rates from 40% in 1996
to 48% in 2000; b) bring school attendance rates for girls from 30.5% in 1996 to 40% in
1999-2000; c) increase school enrollment in first grade from 34% to 59%; d) reduce the
rate of repeating students in primary schools from 16% in 1996 to 14% in 2000; and, e)
increase the supply of textbooks to a ratio of one book for every two students in French
and in arithmetic.
To attain these objectives, the government plans to continue granting priority to
this sector in its budget. More specifically, the share of expenditures going to primary
education out of total expenditures will be expanded from 9.4% in 1997 to 13% in 1999.
Moreover, it will pursue efforts to hire new teachers, to the tune of 950 a year, and will
complete construction of the primary teacher training school in Ouahigouya.  To
encourage teachers to remain where they are assigned and to alleviate the burden on the
government budget, it will prepare and implement a strategy of using teachers hired on
contract in the local communities, as part of its decentralization policy. It will build and
equip 3,087 classrooms between 1998 and 2000, with the support of its development
partners.
A study will be conducted in 1999 to define a strategy for developing private
schools. In addition, this subsector will receive part of the funds released under the HIPC
Initiative, in accordance with the agreements concluded with the World Bank and the
IMF. These resources will supplement the government's contributions and will allow for
the rapid expansion of the sector. To guarantee that these resources are used effectively,
performance indicators to measure the development of the sector have been designed with
the assistance of the World Bank. The government will draw up a report on these
indicators before the end of 1998.
The Ministry of Primary Education is one of the six pilot ministries selected to
test the program-budget approach in 1999. This tool will provide a good basis for
preparing a medium-term expenditure program (CDMT) for the Ministry.
In the field of health, the government's policy has four major objectives in mind:
(I) expanding the coverage and improving the quality of primary health care; (ii)
expanding the coverage of vaccinations; (iii) ensuring that essential generic medicines are
available and accessible; and (iv) intensifying the campaign against the major diseases.
The strategy to achieve these objectives will focus on the following steps:  (a)



mairntaining and stepping up budget appropriations to the health sector, by increasing the
share of the national government budget going to the Ministry of Health to 12% by 1999;
(b) decentralizing financial management to the district level and reallocating the health,
budget to the districts; (c) guaranteeing minimum staffing standards in health centers by
redeploying personnel to outlying centers, until the human resource plan is implemented;
and (d) strengthening the National Health Information System (SNTS) and promoting a
health information, education, and communication campaign.
3.       Policies and strategies in the area of population and human resource
development
a)       Population
Control over population growth, to bring it into line with the development of the
country's resources, is still a matter of concem to the government. A reproductive health
program will be prepared and implemented. The policy in this area will place an accent
on expanding the coverage of health services, enhancing the role of family planning in
health structures, and implementing a literacy program for women in rural areas. In this
context, annual measures will be adopted to increase the rate of contraceptive use. This
should be based on an expanded role to be played by the local communities in
distributing contraceptives. The need for information, education, and communication
(IEC) on population matters, and especially in rural areas, will also be highlighted. For
this purpose, organizations in charge of family policy and family planning programs will
be reinforced. Under the Population and AIDS Control Project (PPLS), 400 new family
planning service centers are planned, and they will developed at the rate of 100 a year.
b)       STDs and AIDS
Despite the struggle being waged against Acquired Inmune Deficiency Syndrome
(AIDS), it continues to be rampant. This is why the government will improve its policy
to fight this pandemic and STDs. The overall objective is to reduce the HIV-positive rate
among high-risk groups. To do this, the capacity of the health districts to take action will
be strengthened with the support of the National Anti-AIDS Committee (CNLS). The
multisectoral plans for the campaign against AIDS drawn up for every district will be
implemented before the end of 1998. Provincial anti-AIDS committees will be set up.
Epidemiological surveillance and the safety of blood transfusions will be improved and
strengthened. Efforts to promote the use of condoms will be pursued and stepped up.
Increased attention will be given to therapeutic measures for the ill. In addition, Burkina
Faso will join in subregional projects to combat AIDS. The project entitled "Youth,
Towns, and Jobs" under the Ministry of Infrastructure, Housing, and Urban Affairs, will
be implemented. Finally, the strategy based on IEC, the training of health personnel, and
action and research, will be highlighted.
c)       Strengthening the role of women in the development process



In accordance with national strategies to strengthen the role of women in the
development process, the government's intention to reinstate equality between the sexes
is reflected in the creation of the Ministry for Promotion of Women. Measures and
activities have also been developed in favor of women and girls in the following
programming areas: (I) Struggle against poverty. Efforts are being made to inerease
access by women to land, agricultural extension services, and credits adapted to their
needs and expectations. To achieve this, the FAARF (Support Fund for Gainful
Employment of Women) and otfher support structures will expand their activities in favor
of women throughout the provinces. Emphasis will be placed on training women and
women's groups in organization, management, education, health, and nutrition; (i)
Development of female human resources, through education and training, and
improving the health status of women. The plan of action for promoting the education of
girls will also be accelerated to reduce the disparity between education for girls and boys.
Programs and projects geared to the specific problems each region faces in the area of
education of girls will be drawn up in coordination with the various partners; and, (iii)
Protection of the fundamental rights of women and girls. Under this chapter, work
will be pursued on the project to disseminate the code of individual and family rights,
which is designed to make women aware of the resources available to protect their
interests and those of their children. In addition, the campaign against different types of
violence against women will be continued, with a focus on the campaign to eliminate the
practice of female circumcision.
d)       Health
The health sector is still a priority area. The government will continue to
implement its health development strategy based on the following aspects:  (I)
implementation of the Bamako initiative which puts the accent on prevention; (ii)
preparation of a national health development policy; (iii) implementation of a health care
cofinancing system between the national government and local communities; (iv)
decentralization of the health system and organization of operations in the health districts,
so that participation by the people and the accountability of the local govemments will be
guaranteed; (v) promotion and strengthening of the private sector with a view to creating
health units and phannacies; and (vi) promotion of health information, education, and
communication.  The implementation of these strategic principles should help in
achieving the following objectives: (I) reducing the overall mortality rate to 14.1 per
thousand and the infant mortality rate to 70 per thousand by the year 2000, by improving
maternal and child health care and by training in family planning; (ii) increasing the
coverage rate of vaccinations against the major diseases, including diphtheria, tetanus,
measles, and meningitis, by reinforcing the expanded vaccination program; (iii) reducing
the prevalence of parasitic diseases; (iv) reducing malnutrition, especially in children less
than 5 years old, by caioric and micronutrient supplements; (v) reducing the area covered
by the health and welfare centers to a 5 km radius; and (vi) providing the basic health care
centers with adequate financial and human resources and essential generic drugs. These
efforts will be stepped up to ensure that the health districts are fully operational, so that
the health care infrastructure and the quality of services can be improved. The number of



districts in operation will be increased to 22 in early 1998 and to 35 by 1999. The
collection and dissemination of health statistics will be improved, to pennit a better
evaluation of the frequency with which the health facilities are used.
A more rational policy for revitalizing the health centers will be implemented. As
part of this effort, the government will set minimum staffing standards for each healthl
unit. To apply the redeployment plan, a study on the workload of personnel in 33 health
districts is being conducted, following the completion of preliminary studies. This study
will provide objective information to be used for the general redeployment plan for healtht
personnel, to be implemented in 1999. The management capacity of the health units and
their staff will be reinforced. A human resource development policy will be defined, to
include the decentralization of hiring with a system of regionalization of posts. The
government will continue to call on its foreign partners to help in the construction and
equipping of the health units, and in supporting the development of human resources. To
facilitate the mobilization of resources, an appropriate policy for financing the health
sector will be adopted and implemented.
The government will pursue its policy of promoting generic drugs, to improve thc
supply of and access to drugs for all segments of the population. In addition, the
campaign to inform the people and health workers of the importance of using essential
generic drugs will be pursued. A system for maintenance of medical equipment and
infrastructure will be designed and implemented. The role of the private sector will be
redefined, so that it can make an effective contribution to improving health coverage.
e) Family and social welfare
The strategic guidelines in the area of social welfare and the family for 1998-2000
focus on the following aspects: (I) protection and advancement of the welfare of infants;
(ii) protection and advancement of the welfare of families; (iii) protection and
advancement of the welfare of disadvantaged groups; (iv) organization of emergency
disaster-relief assistance; and (v) promotion of national solidarity.  As far as the
protection and welfare of infants are concerned, efforts will focus on ensuring their well--
being and healthy growth. In this context, the second national plan of action for the
survival, protection, and development of infants in Burkina Faso will be implemented.
The preschool attendance goal for children from 0 to 6 years of age is to bring the rate
from 1.44% in 1997 up to 1.76% by the year 2000. With regard to the legal protection
and socio-economic welfare of families, the national education and family life policy and
the national plan of action for the welfare of families will be implemented. The
information campaign against female genital mutilation and all forms of discrimination
will be stepped up. Moreover, efforts to disseminate the individual and family rights
codes and documents of international law will be pursued and accelerated. Steps to
protect and serve disadvantaged groups are geared to creating conditions favoring their
social and economic integration in society. To this end, a national policy addressing the
concerns of the disabled and the elderly will be developed and adopted. The open-air
educational strategy (AEMO) will be expanded to include the towns of Koudougou, Bobci



The exceptionally high cost of energy in Burkina Faso remains a major
impediment to its industrial development. Aware of that, the government has decided to
revise its sectoral policy in the area of investment and building the institutional and legal
capacity of the sector, so that it can meet demand in an optimal, effective fashion. To do
this, a bill to open up electricity production to the private sector has been drafted and will
be discussed with the World Bank and submitted to Parliament in 1999. In addition, an
organizational study of the National Burkina Electricity Company (SONABEL) will be
conducted on the basis of the work already done and a low-cost national investment
program will be developed. The link-up with Cote d'Ivoire is under way and will be
completed by 2000. Other investments to increase capacity in order to meet increased
demand could be planned. As regards traditional energy sources, the government will
continue its campaign to make people aware of the need for the rational use of firewood
and its policy to replace firewood with other energy sources. These policies will be
conducted in accordance with the framework defined in the international agreements
adopted in Rio. The government will pursue its policy to adjust the selling price of
hydrocarbons every two months to bring it in line with the real supply costs. Moreover,
the government will proceed with efforts to ensure a more efficient distribution of the
functions of the various operators in the hydrocarbon sector, including SONABHY, with
a view to implementing the energy policy determined by the government.
i)       Mining
The government is aware of the need to develop the mining sector so as to
maximize its contribution to economic growth. To this end, it has prepared and adopted a
new mining law that is consistent with the best international practices. Beginning in
1998, the government therefore intends to pursue its mining policy by taking the
following steps: (I) adopting decrees implementing the mining law, mining taxes, and
environmental protection; (ii) enhancing the efficiency of sectoral institutions and
administrative procedures; (iii) improving the supply and quality of data on the mining
sector; (iv) coordinating the various environmental measures related to the sector; (v)
training public and private sector operators to improvement management of mining
operations. The government will also promote small mining operations. The BUMIGED
and the CBMP have been converted into government-owned enterprises and their
functions have been redefined accordingly. As for geological services, such as drilling,
laboratory work, and the like, they have been assigned to private companies. The
government will adjust the schedule of taxes and duties applicable to exploration on the
basis of the price trends of metals, and especially gold. In addition, with the support of
its development partners, it will develop social, health, and educational infrastructure in
artisan gold mining villages. To protect the environment, it will make sure that any new
mineral development is preceded by an environmental impact study. To this end,
environmental management and protection services will be strengthened.
j)       The environment



In its efforts to seek a balance between socio-ecological and a socio-economic
concerns that is geared to ensuring self-reliance in food and to providing the best living
conditions for its people, the government intends to pursue an environmental policy in the
following four areas: (I) fighting desertification; (ii) management of forest resources; (iii)
land use planning; and (iv) control of pollution and pests. The anti-desertification
campaign will be conducted primarily by implementing the National Environmerntal
Action Plan (PANE). Forest resources will be managed by applying the forestry code
adopted by Parliament in 1997. As for the pollution and pest control policy, it will be
conducted through information, education, and communication campaigns on the risks
associated with an unhealthy environment and the need to clean it up. Land use planning
is designed to improve people's surroundings and living conditions by replanting in urban
centers and rural areas.  The National Council for Environmental Management
(CONAGESE), which is the institutional framework for environmental management, will
play an important role in this policy.
To enhance the effectiveness of forest resource management, the government will
focus on the following:  (I) promoting and increasing the efficiency of village
organizations to manage wildlife on the basis of traditional organization methods; (ii)
promoting activities such as ranching and small private operations to raise wild animals
and the reintroduction of local species; (iii) reinforcing the protection of wild animals;
and (iv) building tourism in the areas of game hunting and viewing, by licensing game
preserves. With regard to the fishing subsector, the government intends to rationalize the
development of fishing resources by ensuring the optimum development of the existing
potential and by improving the productivity and increasing the supply of fish to make up
for the shortage on record. Moreover, the government, during the second stage of the
PNGT, will focus on a strategy for transferring to rural people the skills and resources
needed for them to assume responsibility for managing and developing natural resources.



