                            Document of
                                                         62565 v1
                        The World Bank


                                                             Report No:




                   RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                  ON A

           PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                          OF
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
                   (H 2380 & H 5030)

                          (June 20, 2006 )


                             TO THE

            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN



                          May __ 2011




       Regional Vice President:        Isabel Guerrero
             Country Director:         Nicholas Krafft
              Sector Manager:          Paulo de Sa
            Task Team Leader:          Michael Stanley


                                   3
                        Extension of Closing Date
                        AFGHANISTAN
   SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
                     ( P 098118 & P116651 )
                       ( H2380 & H5030 )

                                 Restructuring Paper


1.     Introduction. The Restructuring Paper seeks Country Director’s approval to
extend the closing date of the IDA financing for the above-referenced project comprising
Grants H2380 and H5030 by 17 months from the current closing date of July 31, 2011 to
December 31, 2012, to provide more time for completion of on-going activities.

2.      Project background. The Board of Executive Directors approved an IDA grant
of SDR 20.6 million ( US$ 30.0 million equivalent) for the project on June 20, 2006; the
Financing Agreement for H 2380 was signed on July 5, 2006 and declared effective on
September 20, 2006. On June 11, 2009, the Board of Executive Directors approved
additional financing of SDR 6.8 million (US$ 10.0 million equivalent) to cover an
unanticipated financing gap. The objective of the project is to assist the Recipient in
improving Ministry of Mines’ capacity to effectively regulate the mineral and
hydrocarbon resources sector in a transparent manner, and to foster private sector
development. The project has four components: 1. improving Ministry of Mines’ internal
efficiencies; 2. developing regulatory capacity; 3. developing mineral resources; and 4.
improving sector governance.

3.     Project performance. The project is on track towards attaining the project
development objective. Progress has been good for components 2, 3 and 4 whereas scope
of component1 has been scaled back. The main achievements of the project so far are:

   -   drafting of the new mining law as well as the accompanying regulations and the
       environmental law;

   -   establishment of a modernized cadastre office to support title management;

   -   successful competitive tender process of the Aynak deposit as well as initiation of
       the contractual compliance monitoring; initiation of the competitive Hajigak
       tender process;

   -   a rapid archaeological assessment of Buddhist antiquities in the Logar valley, and
       the draft of an archaeological rescue plan, with the aim to preserving the cultural
       at Mes Aynak;




                                            4
   -   development and implementation of technical assistance programs to build the
       capacity of Ministry of Mines and National Environmental Protection Agency for
       monitoring regulatory compliance.

4.      Reasons for proposed extension of closing date. While the project ‘s
development objective continues to be achievable, the project’s implementation time
lines have been impacted by several factors which have not been adequately budgeted at
the time of project appraisal; these are: (i) the time required for the project management
unit established in the Ministry of Mines to climb the learning curve and be competent to
execute the project management tasks; (ii) the time required to develop and implement a
series of technical assistance activities to put capacity building of the Ministry of Mines
and the National Environment protection Agency on a systematic and sustainable path;
(iii) the complexity associated with the tendering process of the Aynak copper deposits
and Hajigak iron deposits and the subsequent monitoring necessities intensive expert
inputs as well as extensive stakeholder consultation, both requiring additional time. For
example, to respond to the emerging need to preserve the cultural resources at Mes
Aynak site, an emergency archaeological assessment at the site was undertaken to
develop a Cultural Heritage Management Plan for the site; and (iv) the security situation
in the country slowed down, from time to time, the execution of certain project
activities, as for instance the implementation of the Strategic Environmental and Social
Assessment, collection of geodata and field-based training of mines inspectors.

5.     Updated implementation plan. The Ministry of Mines has submitted an updated
implementation action plan which takes into account some of the difficulties mentioned
above, primarily with regard to strengthening its procurement capacities. An
improvement of disbursement rates is already visible since FY 2011. This will be the first
extension of the project.




                                            5
