                      Document of
                     The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00002388



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
             (IDA-H2380 IDA-H5030)



                          ON A

                        GRANT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR. 27.4 MILLION
          (US$ 40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                        TO THE

             Islamic Republic of Afghanistan

                         FOR A

   Sustainable Development of Natural Resources Project
            (SDNRP) and Additional Financing



                   November 30, 2013


      Sustainable Energy, Oil, Gas, and Mining Unit

            Sustainable Development Network
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective: October 25, 2013)

                           Currency Unit = Afghani
                           1.00 = US$ [0.0178 AFN ]
                           US$ 1.00 = [56.280 AFN]

                                FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 thru December 31



                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGS      Afghanistan Geological Survey
I-ANDs   Afghanistan National Development Strategy
ADB      Asian Development Bank
BGS      British Geological Survey
DFID     Department for International Development
EI       Extractive Industries
EITI     Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
EIDF     Extractive Industry Development Framework
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
DAFA     French Archaeological Delegation to Afghanistan
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Reports
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
IDA      International Development Association
IAC      International Advisory Council
IAP      International Advisory Panel
GoIRA    Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
MTR      Mid Term Review
MASG     Mining as a Source of Growth
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOIC     Ministry of Information and Culture
MOM      Ministry of Mines
MoMP     Ministry of Mines and Petroleum
MOMPI    Ministry of Mines and Industries
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MSG      Multi-Stakeholder Group
NEPA     National Environment Protection Agency
PPU      Procurement Policy Unit
PAFs     project affected families
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PMU      Project Management Unit
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
SAF      Securing Afghanistan’s Future
SESA     Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment
SDNRP   Sustainable Development of Natural Resources Project
TFBSO   Task Force for Business and Stability Operations
TAFSU   Technical Advisory Feasibility Unit
TMAF    Tokyo Mutual Accountability Framework
UXO     Unexploded ordnance
USGS    US Geological Survey




                       Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                    Country Director: Robert Saum
                      Sector Manager: Paulo De Sa
                 Project Team Leader: Michael Stanley
                 ICR Primary Author: John Strongmen
                                            AFGHANISTAN
                          Sustainable Development of Natural Resources Project




                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................... 13
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 23
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 31
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 33
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 34
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 36
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 37
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 38
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 56
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 57
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 58
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 59
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 60
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 61
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 62
  Map of Afghanistan ………………………………………………………………………….. 66
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Sustainable
Country:                Afghanistan              Project Name:             Development of
                                                                           Natural Resources
                                                                           IDA-H2380,IDA-
Project ID:             P098118                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                           H5030
ICR Date:               11/19/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Borrower:
Original Total
                        XDR 20.60M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 27.01M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 27.27M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 SDNRP PMU/Ministry of Mines and Petroleum
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/21/2005      Effectiveness:          09/20/2006           09/20/2006
                                                                                   03/16/2010
Appraisal:            05/22/2006      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   12/30/2012
Approval:             06/20/2006      Mid-term Review:                             06/17/2010
                                      Closing:                07/31/2011           05/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     High
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     55                  25
Mining and other extractive                                           45                  75


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               17                  17
Environmental policies and institutions                               16                  16
Infrastructure services for private sector development                33                  33
Legal institutions for a market economy                               17                  17
Regulation and competition policy                                     17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Robert J. Saum                       Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Paulo De Sa                          Peter A. Van Der Veen
Project Team Leader:       Michael C. Stanley                   Craig B. Andrews
ICR Team Leader:           Michael C. Stanley
ICR Primary Author:        John E. Strongman


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
- Enhance the governance of the mineral and hydrocarbon resources sector.

  - Effectively regulate Afghanistan's minerals and hydrocarbons in a transparent manner.

  - Foster private sector development.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target       Completion or
                                                documents)          Values        Target Years
                Enhancement of governance of the mineral and hydrocarbon sector - Effective
Indicator 1 : review by the Inter-Ministerial Committee with advice from the International
                Advisory Council
Value                                       Value                              Value
quantitative or No                          quantitative or     No             quantitative or
Qualitative)                                Qualitative)                       Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/14/2006                    Date achieved       06/14/2006     Date achieved
Comments
                Major contracts are being reviewed effectively by the Inter-Ministerial
(incl. %
                Committee with advice from the International Advisory Panel
achievement)
                Effectively regulate the sector in a transparent manner - Mining titles issued
Indicator 2 :
                within the timeframe defined in the Minerals Law.
Value                                       Value                              Value
quantitative or N/A                         quantitative or     N/A            quantitative or
Qualitative)                                Qualitative)                       Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/14/2006                    Date achieved       06/14/2006     Date achieved
Comments        According to the 2009 Minerals Law, mining titles for large resources are
(incl. %        awarded regulatory review Feasibility Study and Mine Plan, and ESIA. That no
achievement) titles have been issued as of yet this evidence of compliance with law.
                Effectively regulate the sector in a transparent manner - All new hydrocarbon
Indicator 3 :
                exploration, development, and production resulting from competitive tender
                                            Yes/No - All new
                                            hydrocarbon
Value                                       exploration,
quantitative or N/A                         development, and                   Yes
Qualitative)                                production
                                            resulting from
                                            competitive tender
Date achieved 06/14/2006                    07/31/2011                         05/31/2013
                Evidence of this target is reflected in MoMP having completed two competitive
Comments
                tender rounds for hydrocarbons, the first which ended in a single submission and
(incl. %
                thus was considered to be uncompetitive and a second tender leading to an
achievement)
                award.
                Ability to attract investment - Two new medium-size mines under development
Indicator 4 :
                by 2010
Value                                       Two new medium-
                N/A                                                            1
quantitative or                             size mines under
Qualitative)                                development by
                                            2010
Date achieved     06/14/2006                07/31/2011                         05/31/2013
Comments
                  Only one medium sz gold mine is currently in production. There have been many
(incl. %
                  other tenders reflecting ability to attract investment
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Ability to attract investment - Two hydrocarbon licensing rounds by 2011
Value                                        Two hydrocarbon
quantitative or   N/A                        licensing rounds                 2
Qualitative)                                 by 2011
Date achieved     06/14/2006                 07/31/2011                       05/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          see indicator 1.
achievement)
                  Improving Internal Efficiencies - Strengthen budget formulation capacity:
Indicator 6 :     Budget reflecting the priorities of developing regulatory capacity and mineral
                  resources submitted to and approved by the MoF
Value
quantitative or   50%                       100%                               67%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   06/14/2006                   07/31/2011                          05/31/2013
Comments        This indicator reached 67% achievement. Deficiencies are primarly as a result of
(incl. %        rapid changes in the sectors that are difficult to anticipate and reflect in the
achievement)    budget.
                Developing Regulatory Capacity - Establish three new regulatory departments: #
Indicator 7 :
                of licenses, titles and contracts
                                             Exploration
                                             Licenses: 37                        Exploration
                                             Quarry                              Licenses: 9
                Exploration Licenses: 0
                                             Authorizations:                     Quarry
Value           Quarry Authorizations: 0
                                             210                                 Authorizations: 560
quantitative or Exploitation Licenses: 0
                                             Exploitation                        Exploitation
Qualitative)    Hydrocarbon Licenses
                                             Licenses: 12                        Licenses: 36
                Rounds: 0
                                             Hydrocarbon                         Hydrocarbon
                                             Licenses Rounds:                    Licenses Rounds: 2
                                             2
Date achieved 06/14/2006                     07/31/2011                          05/31/2013
Comments        Three of the four targets under this indicator have been exceeded. There is a
(incl. %        short-fall in the number of exploration licenses as a result of the law (2009)
achievement) which is set to change.
                Developing Mineral Resources - Strengthen geological knowledge: # of Studies
Indicator 8 :
                (minimum 1/yr)
Value
quantitative or 0                            6 (cumulative)                      21(cumulative)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/14/2006                     07/31/2011                          05/31/2013
Comments
                100% achievement - target was exceeded
(incl. %
achievement)
                Developing Mineral Resources - Promote private sector investment: # of active
Indicator 9 :
                promotional events (minimum 1/yr)
Value
quantitative or 1                         7 (cumulative)                    16 (cumulative)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/14/2006                  07/31/2011                        05/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement - target was exceeded
achievement)
                Enhancing Sector Governance - Put into operation the International Advisory
Indicator 10 :
                Panel (IAP): % of reports on major transactions
Value
quantitative or 60%                       100%                              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/14/2006                  07/31/2011                        05/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)
                Enhancing Sector Governance - Adopt and implement EITI: % of reporting and
Indicator 11 :
                auditing of payments paid and recieved.
Value
quantitative or 10%                       100%                              80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/14/2006                  07/31/2011                        05/31/2013
Comments
                80% achievement. The EITI Board decided that Afghanistan will retain its status
(incl. %
                as a Candidate country for another 18 months.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   no intermediate outcome indicators were recorded
Value
(quantitative   0                         0                                 0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/14/2006                  07/31/2011                        05/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    03/29/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                     2.61
  2    06/16/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                     6.13
  3    01/27/2009   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                     8.79
  4    08/13/2009       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     9.93
  5    01/16/2011       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   19.46
  6    07/21/2012   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            31.77
  7    06/09/2013   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            40.74


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 03/16/2010               S       S          14.54   Additional Financing
 12/30/2012               MS     MS          38.35   Project Extention




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
    1. Country Context. Despite the economic progress of the past few years, Afghanistan
       remains an extremely poor, fragile state in conflict, with a high dependency on
       international support. The country lags behind on major social indicators, and living
       standards are among the lowest in the world. While there have been substantial
       improvements in the lives of Afghans over the past ten years, public spending, which has
       been supported by donor funding, will become fiscally unsustainable once those funds
       decline. At the time of project appraisal, Afghanistan had limited economic prospects,
       poor administrative capabilities, considerable poverty and substantial security issues.
       The government prepared Securing Afghanistan’s Future (SAF) in 2004, with the aim of
       transforming the economy from a centrally-planned government managed economy
       towards a market based economy where the private sector would be the engine of growth
       and empower the poor to participate fully in that growth. Subsequently, the International
       Development Association (IDA) prepared an Interim Strategy Note (ISN)1 for the period
       FY07-08 which was approved on May 25, 2006. The pillars of the ISN were:


        Building the capacity of the state and its accountability to its citizens to ensure the
         provision of services that would be affordable, accessible and of an adequate quality;
        Promoting growth of the rural economy and improving rural livelihoods;
        Supporting growth of a formal, modern, and competitive private sector.

    2. Good Governance. The ISN also identified public administration and corruption as two
       key areas emerging as challenges. It specifically mentioned that good governance was
       essential to avoid the misallocation of national resources that could lead to increased
       poverty, corruption, and renewed conflict. The ISN pointed to the need for a concerted
       approach to prevent corruption by strengthening institutions and implementing
       competitive, transparent processes that encourage quality investors who can sustain
       sector growth before the country can reap the benefits of its mineral resources.
       Recognizing that an Extractive Industries (EI) operation could be a key element in the
       third pillar i.e. growth of a formal, modern, and competitive private sector, the ISN also
       included an EI operation in the proposed grant program.


    3. Sources of Growth On January 22, 2006, the Afghan cabinet formally approved the
       Interim Afghanistan National Development Strategy (I-ANDs). I- ANDs was a five-year
       strategic plan consisting of three pillars, namely security; governance, rule of law, and
       human rights; and economic and social development. The goal of the Natural Resources
       and Mining component within I-ANDs was to “. . . establish Afghanistan as a globally
       competitive and attractive destination for investment in industries, mineral and
       hydrocarbon exploration, development and mining in a manner that protects these
       resources and their benefits for future Afghan generations.” Measurable Benchmarks for
       mining and natural resources included (a) creating an enabling regulatory environment,


1
 ISN for Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for the period FY07-08 World Bank Afghanistan Country Unit, March 21,
2006


                                                       1
             (b) enhancing the investment and infrastructural environment in order to attract domestic
             and foreign direct investment in mining and natural resources, and (c) increasing
             government revenue through minerals production.


         4. Ministry of Mines Lead Role. The I-ANDs further stated that the Ministry of Mines
            (later renamed the Ministry of Mines and Petroleum – “MoMP”) would lead on the
            development and protection of Afghanistan’s mineral, oil and gas reserves and would
            establish the necessary regulatory environment for attracting private investment,
            negotiating contracts, and ensuring that resources are extracted in a sustainable way that
            maximizes revenues and protects the environment. MoMP was to coordinate with the
            National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) to ensure that development of
            mineral resources is conducted in accordance with sound environmental practices.


    5.       Mining Sector Background and Counterfactual            Afghanistan has a rich mineral
             potential which was well explored by Russian geologists during the time of Soviet
             occupation and includes hydrocarbons, solid fossil fuels (principally coal), base and
             ferrous metals, construction materials, dimensional stone and gemstones. Government-
             owned extractive industries enterprises were productive in the 1970s and 1980s, but by
             the early 2000s were limited to some small coal, limestone and construction materials
             operations. In addition, there was some artisanal production of gemstones and
             dimensional stone.

    6.       At the time of appraisal, the industrial sector in Afghanistan consisted of vertically
             integrated, government owned operations including light industry, heavy industry and
             extractive industry enterprises all of which reported to the Ministry of Mines and
             Industries (MoMI 2 ) who operated using a Soviet style command control economy in
             which sector policies fostered the use of State institutions to find and develop mineral
             resources. As reported in 2004 by the World Bank mining sector team “…. This
             burdened the central government with subsidies for inefficient production at state owned
             mines as well as high risk investment in new exploration. The mining legislation and
             taxation arrangements (to the extent that they exist at all) for the sector, do not reflect
             modern best practices and are not conducive to new private sector investment
             Additionally, the mandates, functions, organization and staffing of government
             institutions responsible for the sector are not responsive to modern requirements.” The
             MoMP (at the time the Ministry of Mines and Industries (MMI)) was facing severe
             difficulties to re-establish its authority over the mining sector “…. The buildings of the
             MMI have been thoroughly looted of most equipment and there is little left for staff to
             work with. Presently, a few offices are being rehabilitated to accommodate senior
             officials and some staff. Selected rooms have also been reconditioned for specific use
             such as computer and language training. But, most staff still lack the proper implements
             and equipment to do their jobs. The MMI also has little capability, either physical or
             financial, to collect data on minerals production, imports, exports, marketing conditions,



2
 MOMI was the predecessor Ministry to MOM. In 2012 MOM was renamed the Ministry of Mines and Petroleum
(MoMP).


                                                     2
         and producers. There is sometimes a dis-connect between the “plan” and the “actual”
         figures reported. The MoMI faces even more severe difficulties at the provincial level.
         Finally, while MMI staff are dedicated and, for the most part, well trained, they have
         been isolated for scientific and other developments in the international industry for over
         20 years.”

             a. The time line of assistance within the sector and leading to SDNRP Appraisal
                began in late 2002, as the World Bank itself began engagement. The first
                Minister of Mines was brought to Washington and trained for a period of one
                month, but was killed immediately thereafter in Pakistan en route to Kabul.
                From 2003 – 2005 there was a caretaker Minister who graciously assisted the
                team in a systematic collection of information in order to bring order from chaos,
                as reported in the 2004 Mining as a Source of Growth report. Beginning late
                2004, the Bank team financed a consultant to work with ministerial counterparts
                in the drafting of the first mining law, culminating in the 2005 passage of this
                legislation. By mid-2005 the sector potential had been recorded and considered
                in the Berlin donor conference and unsolicited investor interest began to mount
                (see Aynak tender below). In this regard, a cornerstone of the counterfactual
                was that the MoMP had no operating licensing system, had no appreciation of
                acceptable terms and conditions for award of contracts and licenses, and thus was
                not guided by modern transparent, competitive licensing system. MoMP had
                also not yet begun to build modernized regulatory capacity; and NEPA had only
                recently emerged as the environmental regulator, but had neither legislation nor
                staff to support its role. Lastly, at appraisal there was limited contribution from
                other donors beyond two significant counterpart contributions (a) the entry of the
                U.S. Geological Survey circa 2004 and (b) the entry of the British Geological
                Survey circa 2004. Both moved quickly to establish resource potential and
                begin to package information to inform longer range planning by the
                government.


7.       Prior World Bank Support IDA started working with the MOMI in 2002 and by 2006
         had developed a broad range of engagement with and support for MOMI including:


         For minerals
        Assistance to MoMP in drafting the 2005 mining law, and worked closely with Ministry
         of Finance (MoF) and MoMP in drafting special tax provisions for extractive industries.
        Assistance in the minerals sector for policy development and reforms.
        Compilation and analysis of geoscience data.
        Assessment of long-term minerals development and production potential.
        Assessment of institutional shortcomings with a view to making recommendations for
         future actions for sector growth.
         For hydrocarbons
        Assistance to MoMP in drafting the 2005 hydrocarbons law, and worked closely with
         MoF and MoMP in drafting special tax provisions for extractive industries.
        Helped examine different fiscal options for hydrocarbons and helped draft a model
         production sharing agreement.


                                                 3
        Assistance for developing an integrated energy strategy.
        Compilation of a large volume of data on hydrocarbons.
        Assessment of long-term hydrocarbon development and production potential.

8.        Mining as a Source of Growth Study The extensive interaction between World Bank
         mining specialists and MoMI officials from 2002 to 2004 resulted in IDA taking the lead
         for mining sector assistance by preparing the very important 2004 Mining as a Source of
         Growth (MASG) study which described Afghanistan’s very substantial mineral resources
         and presented some preliminary projections of potential production and export growth,
         along with the type of reforms that would be needed to attract private investment if such
         growth was to be realized – since the public sector had neither the capital nor the capacity
         for any larger scale mining development. The MASG Report identified the need for a
         new legal regime to facilitate private sector (not state) investment in minerals and
         hydrocarbons and the need for a new organizational structure and capabilities reflecting a
         new role for MoMI as mineral sector regulator rather than owner and operator of mining
         enterprises. The MASG Report anticipated an initial development in the shorter term (by
         2009 year) from smaller investments that could be followed in the longer term (2014-
         2019) by major mining investments.


9.       New 2005 Mining and Hydrocarbon Laws                In addition to the MASG study, other
         studies included the “Evaluation of Investment Options for the Development of Oil and
         Gas Infrastructure in Afghanistan” (March 2005), and “Public Finance Management
         Review of the Ministry of Mines with a Focus on Extractive Industries” (Afghanistan
         Managing Public finances for Development, Public Expenditure Review, Volume IV,
         December 2005) which led to amendments to the Income Tax Act to create a category of
         “Qualified Extractive Industries Taxpayers with certain specific provisions only
         applicable to them. Having played a key role in shaping the reform of the mining and
         oil/gas sectors with the 2004 MASG Study and 2005 Oil/Gas Infrastructure Study, IDA
         then provided strong support, along with other donors, for the preparation of a modern
         legal and regulatory framework for the extractive industries which was put in place when
         Cabinet passed the minerals (July 2005) and hydrocarbon (December 2005) laws. The
         minerals law provided for competitive bidding which was very suitable for known
         deposits for which exploration data was available. In addition, in the absence of a
         national environmental law, the minerals law also included environmental provisions for
         the minerals sector. After the passage of the two laws, project preparation was initiated.
         A preliminary evaluation of MoMI’s functions and structure, which was conducted
         during project preparation, identified major structural issues that were not resolved. The
         evaluation concluded that MoMI remained structured as a Soviet-styled production
         ministry focused on its role as owner and operator of industrial enterprises with
         conflicting objectives and tradeoffs that emphasized commercial importance over social
         and environmental sustainability.       In 2006, prior to approval of the Sustainable
         Development of Natural Resources Project (SDNRP) grant, the government started to
         give greater attention to the reform of MoMI which was renamed the Ministry of Mines
         (MOM) in April 2006. The government also prepared a comprehensive Letter of Mineral
         Sector Development for the SDNRP grant which reconfirmed its commitment to a
         market-oriented private sector led mineral development.



                                                  4
10.    Rationale for World Bank Assistance            Based on the above work and analytical
      underpinnings, it was therefore logical for IDA to provide assistance for the next key step
      in the reform process, namely institutional reform and strengthening for MoMP to be able
      to become an effective regulator, noting that specific responses of the investment
      community would emerge as resource potential was clarified. Thus a flexible approach
      around improving internal efficiencies of ministry departments, developing regulatory
      capacity, developing mineral resources, and enhancing sector governance and
      transparency was developed. Overall, IDA had the most extensive and comprehensive
      engagement in the EI sector compared with other donors. The other donor agencies did
      not have the same length and depth of experience and track record for overall EI reform
      as IDA/World Bank and tended to rely on consulting firms rather than their own staff. In
      contrast, IDA had its own mining and oil and gas specialists with a strong capacity to
      undertake mining and hydrocarbons reform and with a track record of providing similar
      assistance especially for minerals sector to other countries.



11.   Cooperation with Other Donors.          The project was prepared with careful attention to
      the activities of other donors regarding the extractive industries. The Technical Annex for
      SNDRP contains both a summary discussion in the text (Section B: paragraphs 13-16) of
      the activities of other donors at the time of appraisal regarding the mineral sector and a
      detailed Appendix (Appendix 3) providing more detail. Other donor activities included
      the Asian Development Bank’s (ADB) technical assistance programs for capacity
      building and regulatory reform in the gas sector; UK Department for International
      Development’s (DFID) support for fiscal reform and MoMP administration; British
      Geological Survey’s (BGS) and US Geological Survey’s (USGS), support for geological
      work and institutional strengthening of the Afghanistan Geological Survey (AGS), and
      assistance from the United States Task Force for Business and Stability Operations
      (TFBSO) for tendering both oil and gas and mineral deposits. The ADB support included
      implementing a substantial Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
      Project to rehabilitate a natural gas pipeline and several producing wells and preparation
      of a stand-alone natural gas project. But without a long term sector strategy or
      coordination function, support was largely ad hoc and was mostly either for mining tasks
      or for hydrocarbons tasks rather than a comprehensive approach covering both sub-
      sectors.


12.   Stakeholder involvement and participatory process Given that IDA was engaging with
      a fragile country in a conflict situation, the project design involved workshops and
      consultation with government officials but relatively little engagement with civil society
      which had little structure or representation in Afghanistan in 2005 and 2006. However,
      over the years, as establishment of civil society organizations focusing on the extractives
      sector has gained momentum, IDA has encouraged their engagement through both the
      MoMP and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) Multi-Stakeholder
      Group (MSG).




                                              5
 13.   OP 8.00 Emergency Operation SDNRP was prepared under OP 8.00 Emergency
       Operations given the need for the flexibility that was required in order to move rapidly
       under difficult conditions and to take advantage of windows of opportunity that emerge
       in the context of fragile states. Within the oil, gas and mining sector of Afghanistan this
       included the need to further elaborate upon the underlying resource potential, to further
       clarify the roles and responsibilities in key regulatory areas given the ongoing emergence
       of sector, environmental and social policies and regulations, and uncertainty from
       domestic and international investors to investment opportunities given security concerns.
       Absent larger-scale commercial mine and hydrocarbon production, investor response to
       such opportunities was untested. As such, the quantum of investments that might be
       realized, and the identification of initial development proposals around which capacity
       could be built – could be expected to emerge only during SDNRP implementation.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


 14.   Project Development Objective       The PDO as stated in the Financing Agreement
       (Schedule 1) and the Technical Annex (Section C, paragraph 1) is to assist the
       government “in improving Ministry of Mine’s capacity to effectively regulate the mineral
       and hydrocarbon resource sector in a transparent manner, and to foster private sector
       development in the sector. The PDO was developed in the context of the cultural change
       and structural reform needed for MoMP to implement the new mining and hydrocarbons
       law and make the transition from owner/operator to regulator.

 15.    Key Performance Indicators The key performance indicators as presented in Table G-2
       of the Technical Annex were as follows:

       Table 1: Afghanistan: Sustainable Development of Natural Resources Project
                              Key Performance Indicators

Project Implementation Objective as        Output Indicator as stated in the Technical Annex
stated in the Technical Annex
1. Improving MoMP internal                 Budget submissions to Ministry of Finance (MoF) in
    efficiencies                           a timely manner that reflect MoMP priorities
                                           Initial 50%; target 100%
2. Developing MoMP regulatory              Licenses, titles and contracts are issued in accordance
   capacity                                with regulations and guidelines
                                           Exploration Licenses – Initial 0; target 37
                                           Quarry Authorizations – Initial 0; target 210
                                           Exploitation Licenses – Initial 0; target 12
                                           Hydrocarbon Licensing Rounds – Initial 0; target 2
3. Developing mineral resources –          In field mineral district studies completed
   Strengthening MoMP’s geological         Initial 0; target one per year
   knowledge

4. Developing mineral resources –          Promotional events to attract expressions of interest
   promoting private sector investment     by private companies
   in mining and hydrocarbons              Initial 0; target at least one per year




                                               6
5. Enhancing sector governance – put       International Advisory Council (IAP) issues reports
   into operation an International         reviewing all major mining transactions
   Advisory Council                        Initial 50%; thereafter 100% each year

6. Enhancing sector governance –           Auditing and public reporting of payments paid and
   adopt and implement the Extractive      received
   Industries Transparency initiative      Initial 10%; target 100%
   (EITI)


 16.    These indicators identified important outcomes for each of the project’s main
        components. There were no intermediate outcome indicators. The indicators addressed
        only issues that were directly under the control of the MoMP or Government of the
        Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (GoIRA) and as such did not include any indicators
        related to mining investment, production or fiscal receipts which would be impacted by
        other factors, in particular, security conditions and overall country governance
        conditions.    However, the Results Framework in the Technical Annex Table G-1
        repeated as Table 2 below did include a target of two new medium-size mines under
        development by 2010.


        Table 2: Afghanistan: Sustainable Development of Natural Resources Project
                                    Results Framework

Project Development     Definition                    Outcome Indicators
Objective

Enhance the             Transparency, competition, Effective review by the Inter-Ministerial
governance of the       and fairness of mineral and Committee with advice from the
mineral and             hydrocarbon development     International Advisory Council
hydrocarbon             agreements
resources sector

Effectively regulate    Strict adherence to the       Issuance of mining titles within the
the sector in a         dispositions of the           timeframe defined in the Minerals Law
transparent manner      Minerals Law and
                        Hydrocarbons Laws and
                        associated regulations in
                        the issuance of mining        All new hydrocarbon exploration,
                        titles, licenses, and         development, and production resulting from
                        contracts, and compliance     competitive tender
                        of the contractors with
                        their contractual
                        obligations

Foster private sector   Ability to attract new        Two new medium-size mines under
development             investments                   development by 2010




                                                 7
                                                     Two hydrocarbon licensing rounds by 2011


1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

 17.   There were no revisions to the PDO.


1.4. Main Beneficiaries

 18.   There were two primary target groups (or main beneficiaries) in the PDO. The main
       beneficiary was the MoMP which was to receive substantial capacity building (as
       outlined in the discussion of project components that follows). Given the focus on
       improving the investment environment for private sector mining investment in the PDO,
       the other primary target group was private sector mining investors. There are also three
       other beneficiaries which were not specifically identified as beneficiaries in the PDO or
       Technical Annex. First, mine workers are beneficiaries of increased inspections to
       improve health and safety conditions at existing small mining operations. Second, people
       in mining communities, in particular at Aynak where a major copper-gold deposit is
       located, were beneficiaries of the improved environmental and social protection
       capabilities of both MoMP and NEPA. Third, civil society were beneficiaries from (a)
       the development of environmental guidelines and the capacity of MoMP and NEPA to
       monitor environmental performance and enforce standards as well as the protection of
       cultural heritage in the Aynak mining area; and (b) the improved government finances
       and more robust economy as a result of new mining investment and higher fiscal
       collections from the mining sector and the Aynak premium.


1.5. Original Components (as approved)

 19.   Technical Annex      The project description is provided in Schedule 1 of the FA and in
       paragraphs 4-17 and Table C-2 of the Technical Annex. (Table C-2 was designed to
       describe the components in more detail). Since the FA is the official, legally binding
       agreement between the government and IDA, the FA description of the project
       components is used below this Completion and Results Report. The project consisted of
       the following four main components plus support for the Project Management Unit
       (PMU) and for workshops, training, vehicles and equipment.


       Part 1: Improving Ministry of Mines’ Internal Efficiencies

 20.   Strengthening capacity and streamlining processes within the Ministry of Mines
       administration department including, budgeting and planning, financial management,
       human resources, information technology and asset management, through among other
       things: (i) establishment of an operating information technology and financial
       management system; (ii) defining a strategy for development of a finance and accounts
       unit; (iii) designing administrative systems for performing internal audit functions and
       improving Ministry of Mines financial efficiencies; and (iv) providing technical support
       to the budgetary process.



                                              8
      Part 2: Developing Regulatory Capacity

21.   Establishment of new departments within Ministry of Mines to effectively regulate and
      handle mining and hydrocarbons activities, including: (i) a mining and hydrocarbons
      inspectorate; (ii) a mining and hydrocarbons title registry and cadastre which will house a
      licensing unit and a production and royalty audit unit; (iii) an environmental and social
      protection department which will work with the National Environmental Protection
      Agency to provide broad oversight of environmental issues across sectors; and (iv) a
      mining licensing board to review the activities of the three aforementioned departments
      with respect to the rights of investors to operate in the sector, all through the provision of
      technical advisory services and training to staff, acquisition of equipment, and
      preparation of operational guidelines for the new departments.

      Part 3: Developing Mineral Resources

22.   (a) Supporting the sector policy unit of Ministry of Mines in formulating extractive
      industry policy, undertaking market analysis and preparing sector laws, regulations and
      guidelines, through the provision of technical advisory services and training to staff.

23.   (b) Supporting the Recipient’s geological survey process through: (i) the provision of
      technical support for mapping of prospective mineral regions and mineral resource
      assessments; (ii) development of a geographic information system for internet based
      distribution of information and establishment of a public information center; and (iii)
      establishment of a business development unit to design short-term resource development
      strategies, serve as the interface to the private sector in basic information, Ministry of
      Mines activities and tender of resource properties, participating in industry trade shows
      and conferences, and preparing promotional materials.

24.    (c) Carrying out of an inventory of the assets of mineral-based state-owned enterprises,
      conducting strategic sector studies and analyzing the functioning and comparative
      advantages of state-owned enterprises, with a view to developing concrete
      recommendations for improvement of the regulation of the mineral and hydrocarbons
      sector.

      Part 4: Enhancing Sector Governance

25.    (a) Establishment of an international advisory council to: (i) review procedures for
      awarding licenses and contracts for all major transactions as well as the negotiated
      licenses and contacts so as to ensure the conformity of each transaction with international
      best practice; and (ii) conduct an annual audit of cadastre functions, all through the
      provision of technical advisory services.

26.   (b) Supporting the implementation of EITI principles through the establishment of a
      multi-stakeholder EITI committee to agree upon procedures, develop a work plan for
      implementation, design a reporting template, and disseminate and engage the public in
      discussion of audit findings.

27.   The project provided important support to MoMP for hydrocarbon policy, hydrocarbon
      regulatory activities and hydrocarbon promotion and bidding rounds. However, given the
      considerable other support of the ADB for natural gas and US agencies for oil and gas,


                                               9
        the project activities were directed somewhat more towards solid minerals than
        hydrocarbons.


 28.    The project costs and funding allocation are presented in Table 3. It can be seen that
        Components 2 and 3 account for nearly two thirds of estimated costs.


                      Table 3: Project Component Cost (in US$ million)

       Component                                     Activities                                      US$

 Program               Coordination of the external budget, assist coordination of the internal
                                                                                                   3,400,000
 Management Unit       budget, project procurement, and accounting
Component 1:
 Improving             Strengthen the Administration Department                                    1,300,000
 Internal
 Efficiencies
Component 2:           Render operational a Mining and Hydrocarbons Title Registry and
 Developing            Cadastre Department
 Regulatory            Render operational a Mining and Hydrocarbons Inspectorate
 capacity                                                                                          9,000,000
                       Department
                       Render operational a Social and Environmental Protection
                       Department
Component 3:       Formulate sector policy and prepare and promulgate legislation,
 Developing        guidelines, and standards specific to mining and hydrocarbons
 Mineral Resources Strengthen geological knowledge through data collection, geologic
                   mapping, and mineral district studies                                          10,000,000
                       Raise investment awareness and promote the sector
                       Conduct assessment of SOEs and design sub-sector strategies
Component 4:           Improve transparency, competition, and fairness through third-party
 Enhancing Sector      opinions on transactions provided by the International Advisory
 Governance            Council
                                                                                                   1,350,000
                       Full publication and verification of company payments and
                       government revenues in extractive industries by implementing the
                       EITI
Other                  Workshops, training, vehicles, works, equipment, furniture                  4,500,000
                       Incremental operating costs – vehicles and equipment                          450,000
Total                                                                                             30,000,000

 29.    Implementation Risks. The Technical Annex appropriately recognized that risks to
        achieving the sector goals were high and separated the risks into two categories (a) those
        that could not be mitigated; and (b) those that could be mitigated (Section B page 12,
        paras 8 – 13). Three main risks were identified that were outside the project’s influence.


                                               10
          These were a deterioration of the security situation; a reversal in the political process and
          commitment to the vision and policy framework outlined in I-ANDs; and the risk of
          political interference (“rent seeking”) and corruption. The three main risks that could be
          mitigated by the project were weak implementation capacity of MoMP; non-transparent
          transactions; and lack of established mechanisms for inter-ministerial coordination for
          activities such as environmental and social protection and consultation with project
          affected peoples. The implementation capacity risk was to be mitigated by establishing
          the PMU, with support from other donors, by hiring international and local consultants
          with requisite expertise who would work closely with and provide on the job training to
          MoMP counterparts. Outsourcing of some of the MoMP regulatory functions in the early
          years of the project was also identified as a potential implementation risk mitigation
          measure. However, as the project developed such outsourcing was not needed, largely
          due to the successful training and rapid growth in the competency of MoMP staff. The
          risk of non-transparent transactions was to be mitigated by strong oversight and review
          by an International Advisory Council (later referred to as the International Advisory
          Panel, ‘IAP’) 3 of international experts to ensure compliance with competitive tendering
          procedures, and by possible publication of contracts.


    30.   Environmental Category C.          The project did not involve direct IDA investments in
          specific mineral assets or the preparation of pre-feasibility, feasibility, or engineering
          studies. Rather the project was designed to build regulatory capacity within the country at
          a time when no investment proposals had been received by the Government; it was
          therefore classified as a Category “C” project. As such no safeguards were triggered and
          the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet Appraisal Stage records the project as an
          Environmental Category C Project.


    31.   MoMP Environmental and Social Capacity However, the project recognized the lack
          of capacity of MoMP regarding environmental and social protection and included the
          establishment of the Social and Environmental Protection Department to work with
          NEPA to strengthen environmental and social safeguards. Since new EI investments
          would likely take place during project implementation the project would provide MoMP
          as needed advice on specific mineral-based transactions. The Project would then use
          these examples as case studies to help train MoMP staff regarding the application of the
          relevant safeguard policies and environmental and social assessment procedures help
          ensure that full environmental impact assessments be prepared by the investor consistent
          with the requirements of MoMP and NEPA.




3
  The MOP for SDNRP describes the IAC as follows “The International Advisory Council will consist o f a number of
experts widely recognized in their respective fields for their knowledge of the sector and emerging trends in
governance and transparency. They will review procedures for awarding licenses and contracts for all major
transactions as well as the negotiated licenses and contracts, and provide a second opinion on the conformity of each
transaction with international best practice and the fairness of the deal. The Council will also conduct an annual audit
of cadaster functions. The Council will report to the Minister of Mines who will present the Council’s findings to the
Inter-Ministerial Committee established by the Mining and Hydrocarbons Laws and the management committee of the
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund.”




                                                          11
    32.   NEPA Capacity During project preparation consideration was given to supporting the
          development of NEPA’s capabilities with support from the project. However, the need
          for environmental safeguards and NEPA capacity was a national issue that went well
          beyond the extractive industries. As indicated on page 37 of the SDNRP Technical
          Annex (Annex 3: Donor Assistance to the Mineral Sector in Afghanistan) a World Bank
          Natural Resources project beginning 2006 was under consideration along with a possible
          companion World Bank Environmental project. It was expected that the national
          environmental issues and capacity building of NEPA would be undertaken by these
          projects. However, the other project was later discontinued which resulted in the main
          capacity building for environmental and safety being undertaken within MoMP by
          SDNRP. As a result, the environmental staff at MoMP, who was trained under the
          project, became some of the most competent national environmental specialists in the
          country. When new initiatives began to strengthen NEPA, many of the MoMP
          environmental staff was transferred to NEPA to support capacity building for NEPA.


1.6. Revised Components and Other significant changes

    33.   Changes in the scope of project activities - Improving MoMP Internal Efficiencies.
          The scope and funding of Component 1 were reduced by three quarters when DFID
          stepped in to take the lead with its own very much larger activity focused on
          administrative efficiencies.


    34.   Changes in the scope of project activities - Aynak. Aynak is one of the largest
          undeveloped copper deposits in the world. It was extensively explored by geologists
          from the Soviet Union and the deposit is well delineated. Attracting new extractive
          industries investment was a very high priority for the project. However, because of the
          security situation and the lack of track record of the government for mineral licensing, it
          was expected that some smaller deposits would need to be taken up for new investment
          before there would be strong interest in Aynak. At the time of project preparation, as
          indicated on page 37 of the SDNRP Technical Annex (Annex 3: Donor Assistance to the
          Mineral Sector in Afghanistan), support around the Aynak transaction, including capacity
          building for regulatory and mineral tendering process, was already being provided to the
          Government by the Afghanistan Technical Advisory Feasibility Unit (TAFSU, a facility
          under the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund) which responded to the initial signals
          of interest by potential investors circa 2004 4 , 5 . The Aynak process spanned three
          successive Ministry of Mines administrations from 2005 to 2010, and by late 2006 as the
          TAFSU facility was beginning to conclude its support for continued technical assistance
          towards a competitive tender. Support was therefore migrated to SDNRP, culminating in
          the government’s evaluation and selection of a preferred bidder in 2008 – 20096. In


4
  The impetus for the Bank team to suggest support of a competitive tender began with the MoMP reporting having
received an unsolicited proposal from a firm to develop Aynak, for a single payment of $5 million. The competitive
tender yielded a 3+ billion dollar investment proposal and $808 million timed cash payments against benchmarks.
5
  The TAFSU grant was limited in both grant amount and implementation period, and grant support of Aynak drew to a
close in late 2006 as the TAFSU itself was wound down.
6
  A full history of the Aynak tender and lessons learned can be found in Mineral Resource Tenders and Mining
Infrastructure Projects: Guiding Principles. Case Study: The Aynak Tender Copper Deposit, Afghanistan. Michael


                                                       12
         addition, strong interest also emerged from international investors in large scale iron ore
         deposits in the Hajigak area and, with support from IDA Additional Financing (see next
         paragraph),     the government benefited from capacity building such that it held a
         competitive tender for the world class Hajigak iron ore deposit, with two winning bidders
         subsequently selected.


 35.      2009 Additional Financing. Based on both the good progress of the original project
         and the unexpectedly rapid progress on tendering of Aynak, Additional Financing in the
         amount of of SDR 6.8 million (US$10 million equivalent) was approved in September
         2009 to meet the need for greatly expanded advisory services for MoMP to prepare
         ancillary contracts (such as provision of power and transport infrastructure) for the
         potential Aynak development and to MoMP and NEPA to ramp up the environmental and
         social protection for the Aynak transaction. Additional Financing was also provided to
         MoMP to fund expert support for preparing and undertaking the tender of the Hajigak
         iron ore deposits (as noted immediately above), and to the Afghan Geological Survey to
         support field work for geological data collection and analysis and internet type equipment
         needed to help promote the sector to potential investors. The Project’s expanded
         activities funded under the Additional Financing were considered to be fully consistent
         with the original PDO; thus, the PDO was not changed. The additional activities came
         under Component 2: Developing Regulatory Capacity and Component 4: Enhancing
         Sector Governance. The project results indicators were not changed at the time the
         Additional Financing was approved.


 36.      Additional Financing : Environmental Categorization B The expanded scope of the
         Additional Financing, which included investment facilitation support for private sector
         participation in Aynak and Hajigak, resulted in the Additional Financing operation being
         placed in Category “B” with a requirement for a Strategic Environmental and Social
         Assessment (SESA) to be prepared for the sector. Given the sector development potential
         and investor interest, a subsequent follow-on operation was also prepared (SDNRP2)
         which was also categorized as “B”. In addition to preparing the SESA, the Additional
         Financing included extensive support for the environmental and social activities specific
         to Aynak. While the existence of archaeological ruins at Aynak was known since the
         1960s, they had not been investigated in any detail and had not been protected from
         looting. It was only in 2011-12 that the in-depth archaeological work by the French
         Archaeological Delegation to Afghanistan (DAFA) revealed much more extensive
         archaeological ruins than previously known. The Additional Financing included not only
         support for consultation with and compensation for local communities affected by the
         proposed Aynak development, but also for initial planning for protection of the
         archaeological ruins which are now known as the Mes Aynak antiquities.


 37.     Change in Funding Allocation  Table 4 presents the revised Project Cost Table from
         the Additional Financing document which includes a substantial reduction in



Stanley and Ekaterina Mikhaylova. The World Bank Extractive Industries for Development Series #22, September
2011.


                                                      13
      expenditures for Component 1 (Improving MoMP Internal Efficiencies) and substantial
      increases in expenditures for Component 3 (Developing Mineral Resources). The
      reduction of expenditures for Component 1 took place because many of the
      administrative improvements had been ceded to DFID who were undertaking a separate
      but related major engagement in the restructuring of MoMP.

               Table 4: Revised Project Cost Table by Component (US$ million)

                                              Original Revised      Requirement for
                                              Project Project         Additional
           Item                                Costs    Costs          Finance
           Component 1. Improving
           Ministry of Mines' Internal
           Efficiencies                             1.3       0.3                -1.0
           Component 2. Developing
           Regulatory Capacity (Cadastre,
           Mining Regulations, E&S
           Department)                               9      10.6                  1.6
           Component 3. Developing
           Mineral Resources                        10      19.4                  9.4
           AGS Capacity                              5        7.3                 2.3
           Aynak Ancillary and Contract
           Negotiations                              0         1                    1
           Hajigak Transaction and
           Contract Negotiations                     0        1.1                 1.1
           Additional advisors for MoMP              3        5.9                 2.9
           Geological laboratory and field
           equipment                                1.5       3.1                 1.6
           Establishment of next generation
           training programs                        0.5        1                  0.5
           Component 4. Enhancing
           Sector Governance1                       1.4       1.3                -0.1
           PMU and Operating Budget                 8.4       8.4                   0
           Total                                    30        40                   10
      1
          Including support for EITI implementation of US$ 0.5 million

38.   Change in Project Schedule. The IDA grant closing date was initially extended from
      the original July 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012. The rationale was (i) more time was
      needed than expected for the Project Management Unit to become fully effective, with
      the result that progress was slower than originally anticipated; (ii) capacity building of
      the MoMP and the National NEPA was taking longer than expected; (iii) the complexity
      associated with the tendering process of the Aynak copper deposits and Hajigak iron
      deposits and the subsequent monitoring were requiring intensive expert inputs; (iv) the
      extensive stakeholder consultation regarding preservation of the cultural resources at the
      Mes Aynak site, where an emergency archaeological assessment was undertaken to
      develop a Cultural Heritage Management Plan for the site; and (v) the security situation
      in the country slowed down field work and other activities. The Closing Date was


                                               14
       subsequently extended again to June 30, 2013 to ensure that remaining funds could be
       committed and disburse.


 39.   Second Sustainable Development of Natural Resources Project (SDNRP2) A follow-
       up Second Sustainable Development of Natural Resources Project (SDNRP2) was
       recommended by the Mid Term Review and was subsequently included in the lending
       program for FY 2011 as presented in the May 2009 ISN for Afghanistan. The SDNRP2
       considerably expanded the scope of the environmental and social protection activities for
       the sector and provided specific support for NEPA. The PDO was “to assist the Ministry
       of Mines (MoM) and the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) in further
       improving their capacities to effectively regulate Afghanistan‘s mineral resource
       development in a transparent and efficient manner, and foster private sector
       development”. The SDNRP2 project was approved as an SDR32.8 million (US$52
       million) IDA grant on May 31, 2011. The SDNRP2 was approved prior to the closing of
       the SDNRP I because of the urgent need for greatly expanded support for the potential
       Aynak development and to ramp up the environmental protection and poverty-related
       activities of the SDNRP including providing alternative livelihoods for local community
       women. The SDNRP2 increased the scope of the support being provided by the SDNRP
       and provided further environmental and social capacity building for MoMP and NEPA.
       The SDNRP2 has three main components as follows: (A) Award of Contracts and
       Licenses; (B) Regulation and Monitoring of Operations; and (C) Preservation of Aynak
       antiquities and support for alternative livelihoods through sustainable artisanal and small-
       scale mining (ASM). Component C supports the implementation of the Archaeological
       Recovery and Preservation Plan of the Aynak antiquities and gender empowerment
       through economic opportunities for women.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1. Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

 40.   Soundness of Background Analysis Soundness of the background analysis is
       underpinned by (a) “Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan: Mining As Source of
       Growth” (March 2004), “Evaluation of Investment Options for the Development of Oil
       and Gas Infrastructure in Afghanistan” (March 2005), and (b) “Public Finance
       Management Review of the Ministry of Mines with a Focus on Extractive Industries”
       (Afghanistan Managing Public finances for Development, Public Expenditure Review,
       Volume IV, December 2005).         These reports underpin the SDNRP project design
       through the incorporation of the key finding that while Afghanistan had significant
       mineral endowment it “… would need to overcome a number of obstacles in order to
       develop its mineral resources” (March 2005, P.7).
 41.   The following summarizes the core obstacles, followed by a short statement of the
       government response during SDNRP as demonstration / evidence of the soundness of
       each finding of the background analysis.
       (a) The need to address regulatory and fiscal deficiencies – the government responded
       positively to this finding under SDNRP through preparation and passage of revised
       mining and hydrocarbon laws (2009) and further improved mining and hydrocarbon laws



                                               15
       (2012, pending). Regulations to the 2012 draft laws are under preparation. Adoption of
       the Extractive Industry transparency Initiative (EITI) demonstrates improved
       transparency within the fiscal space.
       (b) The need to address institutional deficiencies -- the government responded positively
       to this finding through (a) establishment of core regulatory functions including mines
       inspectorate and licensing (cadastre) departments, (b) capacity building for regulatory
       review of environmental / social impacts assessments at NEPA, (c) capacity building at
       the Afghanistan Geological Survey to collect geological data to inform decisions, and (d)
       internal restructuring of administrative departments including Budget Planning (jointly
       through SNDRP and DIFD support).
       (c) A perceived lack of central government control in rural areas – to which the
       government responded positively through establishment of the Aynak Authority and Amu
       Darya Authority in local (provincial) areas around proposed resource developments.
       (d) Lack of infrastructure including roads, energy and water systems -- to which the
       government responded positively through the establishment of the Resource Corridor
       Secretariat within MoMP.
       (e ) A shortage of trained workforce -- to which the government responded positively
       through the above noted Resource Corridor Secretariat with a vocational skills
       assessment (supported by the Resource Corridor TF)
       (f) Lack of local capital and the need for international investment -- to which the
       government responded positively by undertaking competitive, transparent international
       tenders for hydrocarbons and mining.
        (g) Unexploded ordnance (UXO) – to which the government responded positively
       incorporation of UXO clearance by the MoMP under the Aynak mining contract
       (h) Investor Perception -- to which the government responded positively through market
       soundings and investor road shows annually (Prospectors and Developers Association of
       Canada, Mines & Money London, Indaba Cape Town) and tender-specific market
       soundings.

2.1.2 Assessment of Project Design

The Objectives, Components and Organization

 42.   The design of SDNRP was simple with MoMP and NEPA as two recipients of technical
       assistance implemented through a single Project Management Unit within MoMP. This
       simplicity of design reflects institutional history with MoMP having a longstanding
       dominant role in production and regulation of minerals, as a large integrated industrial
       enterprise from mine to semi-finished mineral products. While Afghanistan’s mining and
       hydrocarbon legal and regulatory systems were outdated, the MoMP did possess
       institutional knowledge regarding basic regulatory and administrative processes; and had
       a nationwide network of field personnel. Moreover, from 2002 – 2006, the World Bank
       team worked very closely with MoMP on adoption of global norms relating to
       sustainable sector policy and drafting of legislation. As such while the MoMP
       implementation capacity was weak, it was satisfactory in comparison to NEPA. NEPA
       was a new agency created to address the need for independence of regulatory monitoring
       and compliance, and by 2006 was challenged to define and fill staffing positions and
       prepare key sector legislation. The agency had no prior experience or institutional


                                              16
          memory, and was without representation in provincial areas where small scale resource
          production was occurring. In 2006, NEPA had not worked with the Bank to the same
          degree as MoMP, and itself expressed a preference to receive assistance as part of the
          broader technical assistance through MoMP. This arrangement served to not only reduce
          implementation risk, but proved to be a strategic benefit to NEPA by drawing this newer
          agency closer to MoMP where hydrocarbons and solid mineral production was
          concerned.

    43.   Components design was again straightforward, in that the four components served a
          single purpose around strengthening governance within a single sector. The design of the
          components reflected longstanding technical assistance offered by the Bank across a
          great many technical assistance projects. As such, the number of components and
          activities was guided by prior projects and lessons learned, to which SDNRP provides
          two important historical milestones in this regard.

    44.   First, given MoMP’s weak implementation capacity the SDNRP design had component
          emphasis on (a) developing regulatory capacity, (b) developing mineral resources /
          establishing the underlying resource potential and (c) enhancing sector governance.
          These same components serve to illustrate an innovation that emerged within the World
          Bank in 2009, with adoption of the Extractive Industry Value Chain. It provided Bank
          teams a uniform framework that more clearly defined the complete set of sector issues
          and corresponding technical assistance interventions. The component design of the
          SDNRP (the three bullets above) foreshadows this emergence of the Extractive Industry
          Value Chain, in that SDNRP was one of several assistance projects that informed upon
          the drafting of the 2009 document. While the titles of the first two chevrons of the 2009
          Extractive Industries Value Chain are: Award of Contracts and Licenses, and Regulation
          and Monitoring of Operations – the component activities of SDNRP are largely within
          this space. Additionally, SDNRP and AF support of the Extractive Industries
          Transparency Initiative (EITI) falls under chevron 3 of the EI Value Chain: Collection of
          Taxes and Royalties. And thus SDNRP provides a second milestone vis a vis component
          design. While the Extractive Industry Value Chain (2009) is not sequential, that is to say
          that component interventions would begin on the left and proceed to the right, it is
          increasingly appreciated that in a Fragile Conflict State early interventions emphasize the
          leftmost two-to-three chevrons of the EI Value Chain 7 . , As resource development
          proposals emerge, as was the case at Aynak, Hajigak and Amu Darya, there is a
          progression to the rightmost chevron 5: Implementation of Sustainable Development
          Policies and Projects which includes interventions that are far more site specific (i.e.
          community consultation and benefit sharing instruments).

2.1.3 Innovations

    45.   New Structures within MoMP A key factor during project preparation and quality at
          entry related to ensuring global norms of sector governance within a weak FCS client.
          Following on the above conversation regarding project design and the components (a)



7
 This progression of interventions beginning on the left for a weak or FCS client was well illustrated with the
preparation of SDNRP2 in which that project design again emphasized the two left chevrons. The Bank supported that
emphasis on a simple design to strengthen regulatory capacity by creating a second assistance support via the Resource
Corridor initiative; to capture emerging proposed mine developments at Aynak, Hajigak and Amu Darya (largely
chevrons 4 and 5 of the EI Value Chain).


                                                         17
          developing regulatory capacity, and (b) developing mineral resources – there was a desire
          to integrate into the project design an intervention that explicitly drew upon the global
          body of good practices.


    46.   The SDNRP contained a pioneering application within Bank assistance on oil, gas and
          mining governance, the introduction of an international panel to monitor and report upon
          core transactions of the government (MoMP) and the private sector. The introduction of
          the International Advisory Council (later renamed International Advisory Panel, “IAP”)8
          during project design required strong commitment from a new government to accept open
          and factual assessment of procedures and processes leading to contracts with private
          investors. The Bank team proposed the International Advisory Panel to enhance sector
          governance by ensuring transparency, competition, and fairness in procedures and
          processes leading to contracts with private investors through the provision of third-party
          opinion on transactions. As defined on project entry, the purpose of this innovative IAP
          was to render an opinion in respect of (1) the procedures and processes used to negotiate
          such agreements and contracts and, (2) the “fairness” of the terms and conditions of such
          agreements and contracts. Moreover, and a strength of this design, it was agreed that the
          IAP would also provide opinions / guidance to the Minister of MoMP on broader
          transaction-related topics on demand.


    47.   New Participatory Processes A second innovation captured during project preparation
          was adoption of the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI). It was supported
          (as an early EITI application globally) to provide “voice” to civil society and NGO’s
          within the governance dialogue. This design feature provided an avenue to build capacity
          on the demand side with CSO / community groups who had no formal role under
          precursor Afghan administrative processes (prior to 2002).


2.2. Implementation

    48.   Outputs by Component are fully elaborated in Annex 2


2.2.1 Factors that Contributed to Implementation

    49.   The factors that contributed to the successful implementation of the project were led by
          strong international interest shown in Afghanistan’s mineral resource potential. This
          served to (a) sensitize government officials to a source of investment and growth; (b)
          attract complementary and mutually reinforcing donor assistance within the sector on
          other key emerging issues; (c) provide solutions around infrastructure deficiencies by
          aligning private and public sector investments; and (d) continue government commitment
          to an ambitious sector reform agenda (i.e. introduction of EITI and other measures – see
          above).




8
  The use of the term “Council” would, on the request of the government, be changed to panel given specific definitions
in-country for council.


                                                         18
2.2.2 Factors that Gave Rise to Problems

    50.   45. Factors that gave rise to implementation problems emerged within the policy space,
          around the geo-politics of minerals and the role of large international investors within a
          sector having national importance. What emerged in Afghanistan was principally driven
          by western media stories regarding “soft power” and the belief that an increased role of
          western investors was needed to counter-balance emerging Asian investors. This factor
          heavily burdened the MoMP and the broader government within a policy discussion and
          appropriate regulatory reforms. One widely noted example arose with the policy decision
          (2012) to award mineral rights only through competitive tender, motivated in part by a
          desire to exert stronger prescriptive control by the Inter-Ministerial Committee over the
          type and origin of investors. 9 Such an issue would be less prescriptive in other
          countries.

2.2.3 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencies

    51.   Changes in World Markets and Prices World markets and commodity prices grew
          increasingly favorable for Afghanistan during the life of the project. A reversal of
          declining prices occurred late 2007, starting a commodity super cycle motivating
          investors to assess riskier, less accessible resource areas in search of superior mineral
          resources, to which (a) Aynak represented one of the largest undeveloped copper
          resources worldwide, and (b) Hajigak represented a large undeveloped iron ore. The
          commodity super cycle led to a robust shortlist of pre-qualified bidders for both of these
          mineral resources, and for hydrocarbons in the Amu Darya basin for which some
          resource potential and production had been established during the Soviet presence. At
          the close of SDNRP, global commodity prices had softened, albeit the long run
          expectation remains positive on stronger demand and prices given growing developing
          economies.

    52.   Unforeseen Technical Difficulties The extent of the physical cultural resources located
          coincident to the Aynak mine site represented an unforeseeable technical difficulty. Mes
          Aynak (“copper well” in Dari ) refers to an archaeological site that overlays the Aynak
          copper deposit, and is an ancient mine site that included a Buddhist monastic complex,
          township, devotional temples, ancient copper mining galleries and hundreds of
          exceptional sculptures. Mes Aynak is not a chance archaeological find - it has been
          documented since the early 1960’s. However, as a result of security risks having made
          archeological excavation nearly impossible for much of the past thirty years, the extent
          and significance of the site was unknown until after the contract was awarded to
          MCC/MJAM and tight security perimeter was placed around the mine site (i.e. ~1,500
          security forces), allowing for further excavation. MCC/MJAM has often cited the need
          for the government to adequately address the presence of physical cultural resources at
          the site as a reason for the delay in mining. While the MoMP, through the project and in
          partnership with DAFA, MOIC and UNESCO, has taken decisive action on the
          excavation and preservation of cultural resources at Mes Aynak, this initiative required a
          considerable amount of resources.



9
  Countries more commonly deploy two complementary methodologies (a) competitive tenders for resources that are
more completely explored, and (b) open mineral access “first come / first serve” for lesser explored, more speculative
resource areas.


                                                          19
53.   Site Security Threats. The threat of war and civil disturbances remains a serious factor
      outside control of the implementing agencies. For instance, archaeological work at Mes
      Aynak (under SDNRP2) had to be temporarily suspended in June 2013 to evacuate
      international archaeologists after repeated rocket attacks. This increased threat level now
      remains and is a constant concern to government, CSOs, international physical cultural
      resource agencies (UNESCO and DAFA), and donors. Again, MCC/MJAM often cites
      security threats at Mes Aynak as the cause for delays in mining activities. In addition,
      recent reports seem to indicate delays in finalizing negotiations on Hajigak ancillary
      agreements are as a result of concerns around security risks.

54.   Efficient administrative procedures Project implementation has been hindered by a
      range of deficiencies around procurement planning and execution, resulting in lower than
      planned disbursement rates. Two types of remedies have been deployed. First, various
      international consultancies have partially addressed this challenge, but time for deep
      practical experience in procurement activities is needed to ensure that capacity takes root
      not just in the Project Implementation Unit but also within the mainstream ministerial
      Procurement unit. Second, the government as a whole has migrated to a Procurement
      Management Information System (PMIS) that will enable project implementation to align
      with the Special Procurement Unit. Unfortunately, this system comes late and is being
      procured under SDNRP2 after close of SDNRP.

55.   Coordination with Other donors. The project has coordinated very closely with DFID’s
      work on MoMP which has included a functional management review of MoMP,
      preparation of an MoMP reorganization plan and an MoMP business plan, capacity
      building around key MoMP departments and functions, and work on sub-sector
      (commodity) policies. DFID has also led work on a major revision to the 2009 Mining
      Law (the draft 2013 Minerals Law). The project has also cooperated closely with three
      US agencies – the US Geological Service (USGS); USAID and the US TFBSO –
      working with the latter to tender four known mineral deposits where good exploration
      data was available and for a hydrocarbon bidding round. There was also cooperation
      with NORAD for a hydrocarbon bidding round and with AUSAID for the Resource
      Corridor Initiative. The project has cooperated with the French Ministry of Foreign
      Affairs regarding DAFA’s work at Aynak. The project also supported MoMP with an
      advisor to strengthen donor coordination and provided strong support along with other
      donors to the EITI and took the lead in helping to coordinate rapidly growing support for
      EITI from several different donors including coordinating regular meetings to allocate
      funding and technical support as needed and ensure sufficient financing is available for
      all activities that need to be undertaken to ensure successful validation.


56.   Risk Management and Mitigation. The risks that transactions could be influenced by
      political rather than commercial decisions and by corrupt processes supplanting non-
      corrupt processes did not materialize partly due to the strong emphasis on transparency
      and anti-corruption in both the laws and the project. The SNDRP had a unique element
      not commonly included within WB TA, the implementation of an International Advisory
      Panel (“IAP”, originally named International Advisory Council). The IAP, consisting of
      three sector specialists on long-term consulting contracts, provided third-party review of
      tendering processes for the MoMP, noting areas where strengthening in the MoMP’s
      methodology was warranted. Initially, the MoMP did not fully utilize the expertise of the


                                             20
           IAP, but with a change in Minister in late 2009, the role of the IAP gained prominence.
           IAP quarterly reports were synthesized into an Annual Report, with all documents
           published to the MoMP website.


     57.   The on the job training and support for MoMP staff has resulted in the development of
           good regulatory and geological capabilities. All of the mineral and oil/gas transactions
           have been conducted in a transparent manner following prescribed procedures and there
           have been no cases identified of non-transparent transactions. With substantial support
           from DFID all mineral and hydro carbon development contracts have been published on
           the website with the exception of Aynak contract which is due to be published following
           a scheduled five year review about to take place. Recognizing the governance risks,
           compliance with transparency clauses in the Mining and Hydrocarbons Laws was
           identified as a monitoring priority in the ISN. Recognizing the security risks for work in
           the provinces, most of the technical assistance was designed to take place in Kabul and
           extensive travel around the country was not required to implement the project. However,
           security risks increased over the life of the project10 and even the modest field work of
           international consultants was progressively reduced with them taking a “train the trainer”
           approach supervising MoMP geologists’ field work from Kabul. By holding back
           international consultants from field work, Afghan geologists were able to undertake field
           work unimpeded by the security threats that could arise if they were accompanied by
           foreign consultants. Overall, the list of identified risks was comprehensive although no
           risk ratings were assigned. While the project design recognized the potential impact of
           security issues on field based geological work, it did not recognize the potential impact of
           security issues on feasibility work and investments once mining development contracts
           were signed. Work at Aynak has been slowed by security concerns and security costs
           have increased. Both have impacted the potential profitability of Aynak. Another
           external risk not anticipated by the project was the impact of a sharp decline in
           international minerals prices which has impacted negotiations for Hajigak.


2.2.4 Factors generally subject to government control

     58.   Adequacy of the Government’s Commitment. The adequacy of the government’s
           commitment is reconfirmed during each major international donor conference, in which
           the role of the extractive industries in the country’s broader economic growth trajectory
           has been accompanied by government commitment to transparency. Most notably, the
           adoption of the EITI process has served to achieve two objectives (a) introduction of
           transparency in a key area of the Extractive Industry Value Chain which under a new


10
   The World Bank Independent Evaluation Group’s Country Program Evaluation 2002-2011 points out that the Bank’s
Afghanistan country program operates under particularly difficult circumstances. The evaluation noted, first, that Bank
engagement in a Fragile and Conflict-affected State (FCS) usually occurs during the post-conflict phase; in contrast,
Afghanistan’s post-conflict conditions, manifested during 2002-05, have since deteriorated markedly, with increasing
attacks on civilians; and, second, unlike in the majority of FCSs, in Afghanistan the international development
community itself is a target of attacks. The seriousness of the conflict with regard to development support is
underscored by the assassination of numerous government officials in recent years, as well as by the attacks on United
Nations facilities in 2009 and 2011. In light of the 2014 transition and upcoming national elections, the security
situation requires continuous reassessment. Quoted from Independent Evaluation Group (2012): Afghanistan Country
Program Evaluation 2002-2011, The World Bank.


                                                         21
           EITI standard which – now established -- will expand in scope (under SDNRP2); and (b)
           the introduction of a multi-stakeholder group including community and civil society. The
           most recent 2012 Tokyo Donor’s conference again underscored broad donor support to
           the Government’s undertaking of the EITI initiative.


     59.   Governance and Corruption. Global lessons learned within extractive industries point
           to the need for transparency to combat corruption and remove the space for elite rent
           capture. As such, the government is already implementing (since 2008 with SDNRP
           support) the preferred frontline instrument, EITI, to leverage a multi-stakeholder group to
           increase transparency and combat corruption. The new EITI receives continued support
           under SDNRP2 and will further expand a transparency focus along the Extractive
           Industry Value Chain.

     60.   New Structures within MoMP. Some re-design of the International Advisory Panel was
           undertaken. From 2007 – 2009 the IAP’s role in Afghanistan was overshadowed by
           contentious global conversation had emerged on fairness of contracts, an element of the
           original IAP. The Minister of MoMP at the time expressed reservation that fairness was
           a subjective measure that could be misused by others for political gain against the Inter-
           Ministerial Committee. Indeed, the global conversation began to converge around the
           importance of transparency of processes and contracts, to which the Bank increasingly
           demonstrated support.11 With this convergence the MoMP came to embrace the key role
           of the IAP by publishing to its website IAP reports and calling upon the panel frequently.
           The revised design of the IAP carries forward into the SDNRP2 as a non-standard
           condition of implementation.


     61.   Participatory Processes. Stakeholder involvement and participatory processes have
           emerged across the life of the SDNRP at two levels. First, the MoMP established of the
           Aynak, Hajigak and Amu Darya Authorities, in a response to the need to move
           engagement with locally impacted communities to the front line. While this process was
           managed originally from Kabul, support through SDNRP (Resettlement Action Plan, land
           acquisition, engagement processes) improved significantly with the shift to local offices
           and strengthening around World Bank safeguard processes. By early 2012 the Aynak
           Authority had become a principal interlocutor for assistance to project affected peoples
           and by the close of SDNRP in May 2013, concurrent World Bank non-lending technical
           assistance was reinforcing the Aynak Authority by providing lessons learned of a local
           Grievance Redressal Mechanism and social audits.




11
  The Bank supports transparency of contract and competitive tender processes, but does not undertake fairness
evaluations on contracts between clients and private sector enterprises in oil, gas and mining. IFC, under the Open
Information Policy, requires publication of contracts in which it is providing debt or equity; and World Bank Institute
has been a strong supporter of the Open Contracting Initiative, giving strong emphasis to global publication of oil, gas
and mining contracts.




                                                           22
 62.   Second, the importance of participatory processes around EITI took on a catalytic role
       throughout the life of SDNRP. In spring 2013 the International EITI Secretariat in Oslo
       assessed Afghanistan’s performance and found the implementation was lagging due to
       weak leadership within the Afghanistan EITI Secretariat around engagement with the
       multi-stakeholder group. The EITI validator found that some stakeholders reported
       attempts to sideline or circumvent civil society participation and the International EITI
       Secretariat Board called upon the government to ensure that the process is further
       strengthened and requested that the MSG takes steps to address the validator’s
       recommendations on these issues. This remains a core area of focus and support under
       SDNRP2 and post-closure of SDNRP the national EITI Secretariat has begun to take
       appropriate action.


2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

 63.   Design All of the performance indicators included end-of-project target values as well
       as baseline values, which were relevant to key outcomes linked to the different project
       components. Following the slow startup of the project due to procurement and
       disbursement delays, it took six to seven years rather than five years to complete most of
       the project activities in a satisfactory manner. While the initial M&E design covered
       some of the most important outcomes and demonstrated a strong connection to the PDO,
       the design of the monitoring and evaluation framework would have been strengthened if
       some environmental and social indicators had been included (for example completion of
       Terms of Reference for an Environmental Impact Assessment or a Resettlement Action
       Plan); if intermediate indicators had been more clearly specified in the Technical Annex;
       and if the Results Framework and Performance Indicators had been updated and
       expanded to reflect the new activities under the Additional Financing.


 64.   M&E Framework Implementation and Utilization               The 2010 Mid-Term Review
       found that the project was performing well against its project performance indicators
       especially for Components 2 and 3.; noting that the performance indicator for component
       1 (budget fully accepted and funded by Ministry of Finance) and one performance
       indicator for Component 4 were not yet achieved. The MTR made no recommended
       changes for the performance indicators. However, beyond periodic requests from the task
       team for an update to the M&E report for the purposes of preparing the ISR, utilization of
       the framework was very low.


2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

 65.   Environmental and Social Safeguards         The SDNRP AF triggered the following
       safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01); Physical Cultural
       Resources (OP/BP 4.11); and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). Compliance with
       these safeguard policies underwent rigorous management review (together with
       SDNRP2) with the results reported under Management Response to Request for
       Inspection Panel Review of the Afghanistan: Sustainable Development of Natural
       Resources – Additional Financing and Sustainable Development of Natural Resources II
       (February 2013). The Management Response addressed all of the complaints raised by



                                              23
      the requesters and stated that in Management’s view, the Bank has followed the policies
      and procedures applicable to the matters raised in the Request. The Management
      Response emphasized that the SDNRP Additional Financing did not finance any
      commercial mining and that the complaints stemmed from the Requesters’ failure to
      distinguish between the obligations of: (a) the Bank through its technical assistance
      support, under the Project; and (b) those of the government and the mine developer under
      the mining concession agreement. On April 23, 2013 the Inspection Panel submitted
      their Eligibility Report to the Bank Board, recommending no further investigation. From
      this review the following lessons learned emerged.

66.   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01). The Bank’s extractives industries (EI) sector
      work is guided by the World Bank Group Management Response to the Extractive
      Industries Review (EIR Management Response, 2005). This includes: (a) strengthening
      governance and transparency; (b) proposing measures to mitigate mining impacts on the
      community and ensuring that the poor benefit from extractive industries; (c) developing
      capacity in agencies having jurisdiction over mine development to identify and assess
      risks; and (d) protecting the rights of people affected by EI investments. These guiding
      principles have subsequently been captured within the EI Value Chain (described above)
      as an integrated, comprehensive approach to managing all steps of development and
      impact. In line with the above stated principles, the SDNRP and AF have actions to assist
      the MoMP and NEPA to build their capacity to manage environmental and social impacts
      and risks. These include (a) strengthening mining and environmental laws and regulations
      and the capacity to enforce them, both at the sectoral level and at the individual
      transaction level; and (b) undertaking a strategic environmental / social assessment
      (SESA) of regulatory instruments, roles & responsibilities, technical capacity and
      accountability.

67.   It is material that the SESA under SDNRP AF was first completed in 2010, rigorously
      reviewed by MoMP / NEPA and found to be inadequate. A second revision by the
      Consultant was also rejected. The MoMP and NEPA then undertook a milestone event
      by commissioning a new, more extensive SESA that continues during the preparation of
      this ICR. That the MoMP and NEPA would do so is demonstrative of a commitment to
      achieving quality outputs within environmental and social safeguards and the drive for
      excellence in adoption of global norms.

68.   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). A key lesson learned is that compliance with
      environmental and social safeguards was greatly enhanced by the presence of a Kabul-
      based Environmental and Social Specialist on the Bank’s supervision team; supported by
      PMU Environmental and Social Specialists/Safeguards Officers trained in environmental
      and social issues, including World Bank safeguard policies. Throughout Project
      implementation, both environmental and social safeguard compliance were monitored
      and consistently rated satisfactory in supervision reports.            The Kabul-based
      environmental / social team deserves much credit in identifying and mitigating
      potentially significant safeguard compliance issues. In particular, considerable work by
      the government has been required for environmental protection and for social safeguards
      at Aynak, including resettlement of villagers at the mining site.

69.   As of early 2013, the Aynak mine development has impacted 62 project affected families
      and 55 non-resident who are entitled to receive compensation and resettlement assistance.
      The project affected families (PAFs) are being provided with adequate information on



                                             24
       compensation methodology, social mobilization and a grievance redress mechanism with
       support from the International Rescue Committee. In September 2010, before a
       Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was undertaken, MoMP relocated PAFs in Wali Killai,
       and paid them a partial compensation for loss of housing and rent. Upon the request of
       Bank, MoMP corrected the situation by preparing the first RAP in January 2012. The
       RAP documents the meetings and consultations held with the stakeholders and PAFs with
       respect to compensation issues. The land clearance process by the Afghan Land
       Authority also involved extensive consultations with the PAFs to validate ownership
       claims to land. Since the disclosure of the RAP in February 2012, the MoMP has been
       conducting regular meetings with the communities and with Civil Society Organizations
       regarding the RAP.


 70.   Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11). As described above, a need arose for
       protection of physical cultural resources at the site of an ancient ruin of a Buddhist
       monastic complex, town site, temples, ancient copper mining galleries and hundreds of
       sculptures at Mes Aynak. Security risks had made archaeological work at the site nearly
       impossible for much of the past thirty years, until security at the site improved in 2010
       when a security perimeter was established by the MoMP to help facilitate the company’s
       mining operations. Up until that time, much looting and destruction had occurred.


 71.   Key lessons learned have emerged.             First, absent the initiative of the French
       Archaeological Delegation to Afghanistan (DAFA) to mobilize field investigation, the
       Ministry of Information and Culture was ill equipped to apply the modern technologies
       required. DAFA gave initial definition to the site and mobilized support through the
       MoMP to work with the Bank team to design a sustained approach. Secondly, the mine
       became a catalyst for protection of the site, something that was widely misrepresented in
       the media given sensational stories to the contrary. Communication on this issue was
       lacking through the MoMP for the first 18 months, allowing for continued dissemination
       of misleading and sensational stories.


 72.   Thirdly, MoMP was quick to establish a much needed strong partnership with the Bank
       on this issue and mobilized assistance that was compliant with OP 4.11. Absent a strong
       Minister committed to the protection of physical cultural resources, execution of actions
       compliant with OP 4.11 would have been significantly impaired. Finally, while the Bank
       had an MOU with UNESCO, an agency whose expertise was needed to build capacity at
       MOIC, the Bank had no internal staff expertise on the intersection of mine development
       and physical cultural resource protection, and thus needed to rely on external
       archeological sources.


 73.   Going forward, a long-term Mes Aynak Archaeological Management Plan is to be
       prepared by (MoIC, with assistance from DAFA and UNESCO both of whom are being
       retained to build capacity at MOIC.


2.4.2 Fiduciary Compliance



                                              25
 74.   Financial Management. The Project’s Financial Management performance was rated
       Satisfactory or Moderately Satisfactory in all ISRs and Moderately Satisfactory the MTR.
       All audits were unqualified, there are no pending audit issues and no cases of
       misdemeanor or fraud were uncovered in the Financial Management system. However,
       FM capacity was not strong in the early years but managed to achieve steady
       improvements in quarterly audit reports. Replenishment applications were submitted
       frequently, books were kept up to date, quarterly IFRs were submitted on time,
       operational advances were monitored and documented appropriately and an ineligible
       expenditure for security was refunded. An overdue unaudited financial report was finally
       submitted in 2013 and the project has been reported as being one of the strongest FM
       performers in the Afghanistan portfolio. However, in some areas, FM performance
       needed substantial improvement. In particular, budget preparation did not follow
       adequate procedures from 2006-2010, no internal audits were undertaken until 2010, and
       payments to international consultants were often late.


 75.   Procurement. The Project’s Procurement performance is rated Satisfactory or
       Moderately Satisfactory in all ISRs and Moderately Satisfactory the MTR. There have
       been no issues of mis-procurement, but overall procurement has been slow and the PMU
       has needed support from IDA procurement staff and continuous follow-up from the task
       team. The first ISR noted micro-management by the then Minister of MOM, and noted
       the country-wide challenges of achieving good procurement and financial management in
       Afghanistan given little experience or understanding of WB procurement procedures.
       Procurement in the first three years of the project (2006-2009) was impeded first by poor
       procurement capability and planning by the PMU and second by a MoMP imposed
       procurement procedure whereby all procurement had to be sent to the Minister for
       review. The then Minister sent back many packages for revision, generally for non-
       substantive reasons. When travelling he would not delegate this role to the Deputy
       Minister which added further procurement delays. This problem abated with the
       appointment of a new Minister in late 2009 who delegated approval authority in line with
       increased PMU procurement experience and capacity, especially for preparing Terms of
       Reference and Request for Proposals for IDA clearance. Nevertheless the PMU still
       required some IDA support in preparing new ToRs. Both the Additional Financing
       project paper and the MTR rated procurement as moderately satisfactory, and the MTR
       suggested to differentiate roles and responsibilities according to (i) procurement planning
       and (ii) procurement implementation and management of contracts. Procurement
       performance started to improve in 2011 when the PMU hired an international consultant
       who was able to provide further support to the Procurement Director. However,
       weaknesses persisted in 2012 especially regarding procurement planning and
       documentation, and the Bank staff requested the PMU to apply for accreditation with the
       MOF Procurement Policy Unit. A Presidential decree was issued in June 2012 that the
       PMU procurement functions should be migrated to all mainline ministerial functions. In
       2012 a Deputy Minister of Administration was assigned to take the lead regarding
       accreditation, and in 2013 the PMU Procurement Director agreed to apply for
       Procurement Accreditation. This requirement will be addressed by SDNRP2.


2.5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


                                              26
 76.   Second Sustainable Development of Natural Resources Project (SDNRP2) As outlined
       previously, a Second Sustainable Development of Natural Resources Project (SDNRP2)
       is under implementation; and has begun a systematic migration of Bank support to
       implement through restructured and reskilled departments of MoMP building on the
       achievements of the SDNRP.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation: Rating - Moderately Satisfactory

 77.   The PDO was highly relevant at the time of appraisal, given the passage of the modern
       mining and hydrocarbons legislation in 2005 and has remained so since. Following the
       passage of the EI laws in 2005, what was needed next was strengthening of the
       implementing Ministry - MoMP. This led to focusing the project on organizational
       reform, institutional strengthening and capacity building for MoMP regarding both
       mining and hydrocarbons. Further, the PDO’s continued relevance was confirmed both
       during the Additional Financing and the Mid Term Review (MTR) since capacity
       building takes many years to achieve – indeed it can take a decade or more to put in place
       well tested and sound procedures and to establish a cadre of well experienced and
       competent staff.


 78.   The project is rated as moderately satisfactory for overall relevance. This rating is based
       on the following assessments:


 79.   Relevance of Objectives. Rating – Satisfactory. The satisfactory rating for relevance
       of the PDO is based on the well-demonstrated need for the MoMP to reinvent itself from
       an arm of government that owned and operated mining sector enterprises to a regulator
       with the necessary procedures, institutional structure and capabilities to effectively
       administer and oversee modern licensing systems designed to attract new large scale
       mining and hydrocarbon investments in an environmentally and socially acceptable
       manner. The PDO was sufficiently relevant, remaining unchanged under the Additional
       Financing when the project was expanded to focus more specifically on the Aynak
       transaction and expanded the focus of environmental and social protection.


 80.   Relevance of Design Rating – Moderately Satisfactory.            The initial project design
       was strong in establishing the institutional framework and basic governance
       (transparency, policy, legal and regulatory) arrangements necessary for sector
       development. By the time additional financing was proposed, it was clear that the Bank
       would have to take a programmatic approach in its support to the sector; this is largely as
       a result of the nascency of the sector and its transformative potential to Afghanistan, and
       the complex operating environment. Given that the design of SDNRP emphasized the
       policy / legislative, there was a need identified at the Mid-Term Review to further
       strengthen the environmental and social regulatory capacities given emerging large scale
       mining and hydrocarbon development proposals. Although this was addressed under



                                              27
       Additional Financing, the depth of regulatory capacity needs required broad
       interventions, and thus the basis for SDNRP2. The design relevance of SDNRP is thus
       rated moderately satisfactory.


 81.   Relevance of Implementation: Rating – Moderately Satisfactory                        While the
       implementation arrangements were relevant at the outset of the project and throughout its
       life, with the migration to SDNRP2, there was a shift in implementation directly through
       the MoMP, rather than through the PMU. This approach builds on the achievements of
       SDNRP where capacity constraints have been sufficiently alleviated within the ministry
       to allow for effective and efficient integration of the project into its operations.


3.2. Achievement of the PDO and Performance Indicators

 82.   The PDO was to "improve the Ministry of Mine’s capacity to effectively regulate the
       mineral and hydrocarbon resource sector in a transparent manner and to foster private
       sector development in the sector”.

 83.   Performance Indicators. Achievements regarding the key performance indicators are
       presented in Table 5 below (which includes a consolidated list of indicators from Tables
       G.1 and G.2 in the Technical Annex, Tables 1 and 2 above). In total there are all
       indicators between the two tables, with some overlap (i.e. indicators on the IAP). It
       should be noted that performance indicators targets have not been updated for the closing
       date extensions – thus actual are presented over seven years and targets over five years.
       In addition, baselines and targets were not included for indicators in Table G.1 of the
       Technical Annex (Table 2 above). Of the 11 results indicators, six maps to first part of
       the PDO on effectively regulate the mineral and hydrocarbon resource sector in a
       transparent manner; while four indicate progress in the second part of the PCO on
       fostering private sector development in the sector; and one relates to both parts of the
       PDO.


 84.   MoMP has met or exceeded the target in seven of the indicators:


      Indicator 1: Enhancement of governance of the mineral and hydrocarbon sector - Major
       contracts reviewed effectively by the Inter-Ministerial Committee with advice from the
       International Advisory Panel.
      Indicator 2: Effectively regulate the sector in a transparent manner - Mining titles issued
       within the timeframe defined in the Minerals Law.
      Indicator 3: Effectively regulate the sector in a transparent manner - All new
       hydrocarbon exploration, development, and production tendered on a competitive basis.
      Indicator 5: Ability to Attract Investment – Two hydrocarbon licensing rounds.
      Indicator 8: Strengthen Geological Knowledge – Number of Geological Studies.
      Indicator 9: Foster Private Sector Investment – Promotional Activities
      Indicator 10: Enhancing Sector Governance - Establishment of International Advisory
       Panel.




                                                28
 85.   In addition, partial results have been achieved on four indicators:
      Indicator 4: Ability to Attract Investment – Two medium size mines under development
      Indicator 6: Improving Internal Efficiencies - Strengthen budget formulation capacity:
       Budget reflecting the priorities of developing regulatory capacity and mineral resources
       submitted to and approved by the MoF
      Indicator 7: Developing Regulatory Capacity- Establishment of three new regulatory
       departments, three of the four targets were achieved - Quarry authorizations,
       Hydrocarbon bidding rounds, exploitation Licenses;

      Indicator 11: Enhancing Sector Governance - Adopt and implement EITI


3.2.1 Improving MoMP’s capacity to effectively regulate the mineral and hydrocarbon
resource sector in a transparent manner.” Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

 86.   Four of the six performance indicators related to part one of the PDO in the Results
       Framework have been achieved, namely:

      Indicator 1: Enhancement of governance of the mineral and hydrocarbon sector - Major
       contracts reviewed effectively by the Inter-Ministerial Committee with advice from the
       International Advisory Panel.     Evidence of this target is reflected in the structure
       adopted by the government in which the MoMP first provides technical review of tender
       documents in a transparent and non-discretionary manner. The process is monitored by
       the International Advisory Panel and reported upon independently. The Inter-Ministerial
       Committee then receives the recommendation of the MoMP, and after further
       deliberation takes a decision to award a mineral right. To date, the Inter-Ministerial
       Committee has awarded mineral rights to Aynak and Hajigak (x2); and in a similar
       process supported by the TFBSO, licenses to five additional resource assets.

      Indicator 2: Effectively regulate the sector in a transparent manner - Mining titles issued
       within the timeframe defined in the Minerals Law. According to the 2009 Minerals Law,
       mining titles for large resources (based upon an investment threshold) are awarded only
       upon successful regulatory review of the Feasibility Study and Mine Plan, and
       Environmental / Social Impact Assessment and corresponding Management Plans. That
       no authorization for construction has been issued for Aynak and Hajigak as of yet (given
       the above regulatory steps) this is evidence of compliance with the time frame defined in
       the Minerals Law and strict adherence to issuance of mining titles, licenses, and
       compliance of the contractors with their contractual obligations.

      Indicator 3: Effectively regulate the sector in a transparent manner - All new
       hydrocarbon exploration, development, and production tendered on a competitive basis.
       MoMP has adopted international norms for transparent, competitive and non-
       discretionary administration of the sector and has been steadily improving its
       performance. For a country that was embedded in the soviet-style central planning
       approach, it is extremely noteworthy that the competitive bidding of Aynak and Hajigak,
       the two major international competitive rounds of bidding for hydrocarbons and
       tendering of four medium size mineral deposits for development all took place in line
       with good, modern international practice in a highly transparent and well governed
       manner. Evidence of this target is reflected in MoMP having completed two competitive



                                              29
      tender rounds for hydrocarbons, the first which ended in a single submission and thus
      was considered to be uncompetitive (no license awarded) and a second tender leading to
      an award in the Amu Darya hydrocarbon field.

     Indicator 10: Enhancing Sector Governance - Establishment of International Advisory
      Panel. The project has made substantial progress regarding improved governance and
      transparency outcomes. The IAP was established with the appointment by the Minister
      MoMP of three very well qualified and experienced global industry experts, who have
      undertaken a fully independent and effective oversight role with regard to new
      transactions and the operation of the mining licensing and record keeping functions has
      provided strongly positive annual reports. All mining licenses and hydrocarbon contracts
      are now published on an external website, which is accessible by investors and civil
      society. The one exception is the Aynak contract, which the government has committed
      to publish following possible amendment which could take place during a contractually
      agreed five year review of the agreement between GoA and the investor, MCC which
      will shortly take place.


87.   As noted above, partial results have been achieved on three indicators:

     Indicator 6: Improving Internal Efficiencies - Strengthen budget formulation capacity:
      Budget reflecting the priorities of developing regulatory capacity and mineral resources
      submitted to and approved by the MoF. From 2007-2009, the MoMP did not prepare
      budgets satisfactory to the MoF. The underlying deficiency related to the legacy structure
      of the budget department and the time required for institutional reforms, ahead of meeting
      specific targets around budget preparation. The commencement of the DFID support to
      broader institutional reforms led to improvements beginning in 2010. By close of SDNRP
      in 2013, the MoMP was preparing and submitting budgeting largely reflecting the
      prioritized needs of the ministry. Remaining challenges emerge from new issues arising
      around specific developments in the sector (i.e. Aynak, Hajigak, Amu Darya) and the
      need for MoMP to respond with new institutional arrangements (such the Aynak
      Authority, the Afghan Gas Enterprise).

     Indicator 7: Developing Regulatory Capacity- Establishment of three new regulatory
      departments. The needed institutional structure was established in terms of establishing
      the three key new regulatory departments’ i.e. (i) the mining and hydrocarbons
      inspectorate which is functional and operational, with over forty inspectors having been
      provided on the job international training at large mine sites in India; (ii) the mining and
      hydrocarbons title registry and cadastre which is also functional with strong integrity and
      with no backlogs of license applications; and (iii) the environmental and social protection
      department (renamed the Social Protection Department) which has made good progress
      in cooperation with NEPA, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Information
      and Culture regarding environmental protection and engagement at Mes Aynak. As
      noted in Table 5 below, the establishment of these regulatory departments have led to
      superior results on all but one target (exploration licenses), which as noted elsewhere is a
      result of a change to the Mining Law (2009) requiring tenders.




                                              30
           a. It is also noteworthy that for a country that has essentially no prior track record
              working with global norms regarding environmental and social protection,
              substantial progress has been made regarding building the capacity for
              environmental governance and compliance enforcement and on social safeguards
              issues related to resettlement, community consultation and engagement, and
              dispute resolution. The project supported establishing the necessary internal
              procedures, rules and equipment for these units to progressively function more
              effectively and efficiently over time. The project also provided the necessary
              training so that MoMP staff could develop the skills and experience needed for
              these three Units to operate effectively and efficiently by the end of the project.
              Aynak and Hajigak have not yet completed feasibility work and there are no
              other medium or large-scale mining operations in Afghanistan. Therefore,
              training has been provided at large-scale mining operations in other countries
              such as India. Along with establishing these needed functions, the project also
              supported the process of attracting new investment by funding the transaction
              advisors and enabling the tendering of the Aynak and Hajigak projects. Not all
              proposed Units were established. For example the Licensing Board, licensing
              unit and a production and royalty audit unit were not established but these
              functions are nevertheless being fulfilled in a satisfactory manner by other Units.

      Indicator 11: Enhancing Sector Governance - Adopt and implement EITI: Strong
       progress has been made regarding EITI, and the first two EITI reconciliation reports have
       been prepared and public consultations held on the second report. On 10 April, 2013 the
       EITI Board finalized its assessment of the Validation Report from Afghanistan and
       concluded that Afghanistan had made meaningful progress in implementing the EITI.
       The EITI Board decided that Afghanistan will retain its status as a Candidate country for
       another 18 months by the end of which it must complete the remedial actions requested
       by the Board and demonstrate Compliance with the EITI Requirements. In particular,
       there are a number of concerns with the functioning the Multi-Stakeholder Group with
       regards to CSO engagement.


3.2.2 Foster private sector development in the sector. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

 88.   Both of the performance indicators related to part two of the PDO in the Results
       Framework have been achieved, namely:

      Indicator 5: Ability to Attract Investment - Two hydrocarbon licensing rounds. As noted
       above, MoMP has completed two competitive hydrocarbon licensing rounds.

      Indicator 8: Strengthen Geological Knowledge – Number of Geological Studies. The
       project also supported the collection and compilation of large amounts of geological data
       and of mineral resources studies by the Afghan Geological Survey (AGS). This
       combination of capacity building of its staff and modernized equipment has enabled AGS
       to start to improve its services to the industry. The building of AGS’ capacity will, over
       time, be critical to attracting strong private sector investors. However, availability of
       geological data may be severely restricted unless MOIC is willing for such data to be
       released publically.



                                              31
          Indicator 9: Foster Private Sector Investment – Promotional Activities During project
           implementation, progress was made with regard to international promotional events.
           Since 2008, the SDNRP has supported MoMP with a floor exhibit showcasing the
           mineral resource potential of Afghanistan and with an investment address at the
           Prospector & Developers Association of Canada meeting. As the largest global gathering
           on mining and a high profile event, support sensitizes investors to the opportunities
           across Afghanistan. Moreover, SDNRP has supported similar annual participation at the
           Indaba meeting in Cape Town South Africa, Mines and Money investment conference in
           London, and Mining DownUnder promotional events in Australia. Additionally, SDNRP
           has provided supported the MoMP to attend market feedback meetings, present at
           EuroMines, host an investment conference in New York, and to join other meetings with
           industry investors.
               a. As noted previously, the Aynak and Hajigak transactions are world-class assets
                   for which investors have made significant commitments – but hard investments
                   on the ground remain undeveloped. Additionally, the number of quarry
                   authorizations has appreciably increased (see table 5), signaling investor interest
                   in smaller mineral contracts.         Moreover, MoMP has undertaken two
                   hydrocarbon bidding rounds are considered positive achievements for a fragile
                   country in conflict. To date, many of these larger investments remain
                   undeveloped given security risks and ongoing deliberation of new hydrocarbon
                   and mining laws. So far, only modest increases in gas and mineral production
                   have been achieved. Therefore, the rating is moderately satisfactory.


     89.   Partial results have been achieved for one indicator related to private sector development,
           namely

          Indicator 4: Ability to Attract Investment – Two medium size mines under development.
           On the specific element of the ability to attract new investments, a pool of diverse
           international and national investors has been attracted. As noted elsewhere, Aynak and
           Hajigak (x2) have committed to major development programs. In addition, four
           exploration properties were successfully tendered competitively in late 2012, attracting
           four additional pools of investors, including groups of joint ventures. With the larger
           class of mines12, mining production has started at one gold mine (Qara Zaghan), with
           development work having slowed at Aynak and Hajigak pending passage of the (draft
           2012) Minerals Law and uncertainty around the April 2014 elections.




12
  Note that in addition to the more visible proposed investments at Aynak and Hajigak, the MoMP has published on its
website 108 contracts for smaller scale mines; of which 36 have been issued during the SDNRP implementation
timeframe.


                                                        32
                                 Table 5: Achievement of the Key Performance Indicators

Project               Specific        Target                 PDO         Target completion in each project year (cumulative) followed by actuals
implementation        elements                               Part 1      (in red bold)
objectives                                                   regulat
                                                             ory) or
                                                             2(invest    PY 1      PY2        PY3        PY4        PY5        PY6        PY7
                                                             ments)

Enhancement of        1)              Yes/No - Effective        1                                                                         Yes
governance of the     Transparenc     review by the Inter-
mineral and           y,              Ministerial
hydrocarbon           competition,    Committee with
sector                and fairness    advice from the
                      of mineral      International
                      and             Advisory Council
                      hydrocarbon
                      development
                      agreements


Effectively           2) Strict       Yes/No - Issuance         1                                                                         Yes
regulate the sector   adherence to    of mining titles
in a transparent      the             within the
manner                dispositions    timeframe defined
                      of the          in the Minerals
                      Minerals        Law
                      Law and
                      Hydrocarbo
                      ns Laws and
                      associated
                      regulations
                      in the
                      issuance of
                      mining
                      titles,
                      licenses, and
                      contracts,
                      and
                      compliance
                      of the
                      contractors
                      with their
                      contractual
                      obligations


Effectively           3) Strict       Yes/No - All new          1                                                                         Yes
regulate the sector   adherence to    hydrocarbon
in a transparent      the             exploration,
manner                dispositions    development, and
                      of the          production
                      Minerals        resulting from
                      Law and         competitive tender
                      Hydrocarbo
                      ns Laws and
                      associated
                      regulations
                      in the
                      issuance of
                      mining
                      titles,
                      licenses, and



                                                                    33
                 contracts,
                 and
                 compliance
                 of the
                 contractors
                 with their
                 contractual
                 obligations


Foster Private   4) Ability to   Two new medium-           2                                                  1
sector           attract new     size mines under
Development      investments     development by
                 - mines         2010



Foster Private   5) Ability to   Two hydrocarbon           2                                                  2
sector           attract new     licensing rounds by
Development      investments     2011
                 -
                 Hydrocarbo
                 ns


Improving        6)              Budget reflecting         1
internal         Strengthen      the priorities of
efficiencies     budget          developing
                 formulation     regulatory capacity                 50%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%
                 capacity        and mineral
                                                                     0%    0%     25%    35%    50%    60%    67%
                                 resources submitted
                                 to and approved by
                                 MoF

Developing       7) Establish    # licenses, titles and   1&2
regulatory       three new       contracts
capacity         regulatory                                          0     5      12     22     37
                 departments     Exploration
                                 licenses                            0     0      0      5      5      8      9



                                                                     0     10     35     110    210

                                 Quarry                              0     0      0      200    380    460    560
                                 authorizations

                                                                     0     3      6      9      12

                                                                     0     0      0      14     36     36     36
                                 Exploitation
                                 licenses
                                                                     0     1      1      2      2

                                                                     0     0      0      1      1      2      2

                                 Hydrocarbon
                                 licensing rounds




                                                                34
Developing           8)              # studies             2
mineral resources    Strengthen      A minimum of one
                                                                    0        1       2       3        4
                     geological      study a year
                     knowledge                                      1        4       6       15       21       15        21
                     9) Promote      # active promotion    2
                     private-        At least one
                                                                         1       2       3        4        5
                     sector          promotional event a
                     investment      year                                0       0       1        3        4        12        16
Enhancing sector     10) Put into    # reports on          1
governance           operation       transactions
                     International   Reports on all
                     Advisory        major transactions
                     Council                                        60%      100%    100%    100%     100%

                                                                    --       100%    100%    100%     100%     100%      100%


                     11) Adopt       # reporting and       1
                     and             auditing of
                     implement       payments paid and              10%      30%     50%     80%      100%
                     EITI            received

                                     Regular auditing               0%       0%      0%      20%      40%      60%       80%
                                     and reporting of
                                     payments paid and
                                     received



          3.3. Efficiency: Rated – Moderately Satisfactory.

           90.      As noted in Section F (p.22) of the Technical Annex, the World Bank estimates “…that
                    over US$500,000 annually could be generated in surface rents and fees if technical
                    assistance is used to put into place a functional cadastre registry. Furthermore,
                    strengthening the ability of the government to assess and collect taxes and royalties from
                    existing mining and quarry operations could generate US$10–20 million annually within
                    three years. As new mining operations come on stream, and in particular the Aynak
                    copper project, the potential for new revenue to the Government increases even further.
                    Assuming a five year exploration and development profile for the Aynak project and a
                    capital depreciation period of five years, it is anticipated that direct revenues from the
                    sector could increase to US$100–120 million annually by 2015. The potential for
                    commercialization and expansion of existing coal operations, and the potential for new
                    gold mining projects could add to this total with possible annual receipts of up to US$150
                    million by 2015. In addition to the direct revenues from mining operations there are
                    substantial indirect revenues from wages tax, import duties and excise taxes, as well as
                    taxes on profits of suppliers and support industries.”

           91.      The potential for the above noted investments to materialize has been confirmed through
                    mining rights at Aynak, a large-scale copper mine in Logar province, awarded to a
                    consortium led by MCC (China Metallurgical Group Corporation, 2008). MCC is
                    working towards an estimated investment requirement of US$3+ billion for mine and
                    ancillary infrastructure. In November 2011 three blocks of mining rights at Hajigak, a
                    large iron-ore deposit, were awarded to AFISCO (Afghan Iron and Steel Consortium), a
                    consortium led by the Steel Authority of India (SAIL), and one block to Kilo Goldmines
                    of Canada. Oil in Amu Darya and gas in Sheberghan are expected to start production



                                                               35
       within five years. The AFISCO consortium is work working towards a US$3+ billion
       investment for mine and ancillary infrastructure.

 92.   A December 2012 analysis of sector potential has confirmed the above investment
       amount and provides the following specifics (Afghanistan Resource Corridor Concept
       Note, December 2012).

 93.   “… If the resource sector’s fiscal effects, infrastructure and demand for goods and
       services can be leveraged, it has the capacity to transform the Afghan economy.

      Fiscal effects: Afghanistan’s large mining projects will have a material effect on the
       government’s fiscal sustainability. It is projected that Aynak could generate around
       US$500 million annually in direct and indirect government revenue by 2015 and Hajigak
       about US$400-500 million by around 2020.
      Infrastructure: As significant as the fiscal effects will be, growth will be more
       associated with the infrastructure supported by these mining investments. At Aynak, for
       example, MCC is building a 400 MW thermal power plant with 50% of this power
       contractually to be provided to the grid at cost. The mines will also require or motivate
       large investments in transport infrastructure and regional trade which could be leveraged
       to create public goods that support other sectors.
      Livelihoods: If the mining infrastructure investments are buttressed by incremental
       catalytic investments in feeder and rural roads, agriculture and the agribusiness industry
       could benefit and become a more substantial source of income and jobs for rural
       communities and urban areas. The mines will also be a source of demand for the
       manufacturing and services sectors. If local firms can upgrade to supply competitive
       goods and services, they could capture a portion of the US$4 - 10 billion of investment
       (depending on the infrastructure built). Once operational, the mines might also lead to
       downstream activity. For example, AFISCO (the consortium developing three of the four
       Hajigak deposits) has already declared it will build a large-scale steel mill (up to 6
       million tons p.a.), if it can secure sovereign guarantees.”

3.4. Justification of Moderately Satisfactory Rating for Overall Outcome

      The Overall Project Outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory on the basis that:
      the relevance of the Project Objectives and design is rated Moderately Satisfactory;
      the overall achievement of Project Development Objectives is rated Moderately
       Satisfactory; and
      the Project efficiency is rated Moderately Satisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

           a. Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

 94.   Poverty Impacts. While somewhat modest, there are two direct poverty related aspects
       to the operation. First, the improved activities of the inspectorate have resulted in the
       formalization of over one hundred small mining operations. Since mining incomes are
       considered to be very low, this is considered to be a positive impact – although specific



                                              36
       statistics are not available to measure the scale of improvement. Second, the
       considerable focus in the Additional Financing on community consultation and improved
       resettlement and compensation covering villagers with generally low rural income is
       another direct impact.     There are also two indirect poverty related aspects to the
       operation. First, increases in state revenues from mining, if well used in the national
       budget, will make a contribution to poverty-related government expenditures and help to
       offset expected declines in donor aid in coming years. Second, looking ahead, the
       mineral corridors initiative can be expected to increase the spin off businesses from
       minerals development as large projects are developed and will help generate more
       income and employment in rural areas with generally low incomes.


           b. Institutional Change/Strengthening

 95.   The substantial institutional strengthening for MoMP has already been covered in depth
       previously in the ICR. The consultative and social impact work on Aynak has also
       resulted in institutional strengthening of local groups.


           c. Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative) N/A

 96.   The one major unintended outcome is that much greater attention to the security and
       protection of the Buddhist temple ruins and other antiquities at Mes Aynak, which were
       previously unprotected and vandalized, has led to substantial measures being put in place
       for their protection and preservation.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops.
  97. No stakeholder workshops or beneficiary surveys were undertaken.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome Rating: High

 98.   Risks to the Development Outcomes. Sustainability is considered high it terms of
       certain achievements, such as the geological data that has been produced and the progress
       on Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), SESAs, RAPs and
       Environmental Management Plan (EMPs). But, given the country conditions of conflict
       and fragility, any project will have substantial risks to development outcomes. In the
       case of this project, there are several potentially significant risks to the development
       outcomes as outlined below. While the SDNRP2 will continue to build the institutional
       strengthening of the MoMP and NEPA which will potentially contribute to sustaining the
       institutional development that has taken place so far and building and deepening it
       further, the risk to development outcome is rated high in view of the risks listed below.


 99.   Elections. Elections are scheduled for April 2014. A change in government could result
       in changes in policy with regards the new mining law (pending approval by Parliament)
       making the sector less rather than more attractive to good quality investors and with a
       pullback regarding transparency and good governance. These risks clearly will depend



                                              37
      on the political (economy) climate that emerges after the election and the leadership
      appointed within the MoMP.


100. Long Process for Capacity Building Even with the additional financing, capacity
     building in Afghanistan will likely take a decade or more to be fully effective, especially
     since there are presently no large-scale mining operations in Afghanistan for MoMP or
     NEPA staff to work on or learn from given that both Aynak and Hajigak are at the
     feasibility stage.


101. Barrier to Grass Roots Exploration. The 2005 minerals law focused on procedures for
     competitive bidding of areas with known geological potential, but it did not include
     adequate procedures for grass roots exploration on a first come, first serve qualified basis
     for land areas where there has been no previous exploration work. Now that most of the
     known deposits have been competitively bid, grass roots exploration will be more
     important. Recognizing this, DFID has provided support over the past three to four years
     to prepare a new Minerals Law which would support grass roots exploration but the IMC
     has been unwilling to accept provisions that would provide for security of tenure for an
     exploration license holder to be able to retain and develop a good exploration find.
     However, the IMC wants to compensate the exploration rights holder for the exploration
     work undertaken and then competitively bid the mining right. This is a deterrent to
     attracting grass roots exploration. Discussion of the draft law is presently on hold until
     after next year’s elections.


102. Renegotiating Contract Terms. All contracts have been signed with high ad valorem
     rates before any feasibility work has been undertaken and once feasibility results are
     available. Investors may seek to renegotiate contracts to much lower royalty rates than
     previously agreed if expected costs are higher or prices lower than originally envisaged
     when contracts were negotiated.


103. Public Release of Geological Data. The public release of geological data is presently
     restricted by MOIC which is a significant barrier to grass roots exploration. This issue is
     being further addressed under SDNRP2.


104. Site Security Even with a satisfactory legal framework and a reasonably competent
     MoMP, major investors may be unwilling to come to Afghanistan due to security and
     other related concerns.


105. Retaining Good Staff Even with the support provided under SDNRP and SDNRP2,
     capacity building in Afghanistan will likely take a decade or more to be fully effective for
     large-scale EI operations, especially since there are presently no large-scale EI operations
     in Afghanistan for MoMP or NEPA staff to work on or learn from. There are good
     prospects that sustainability will be achieved through the SDNRP2 project, but it must
     equally be recognized that MoMP faces a substantial risk in terms of being able to hire
     and retain good staff and the progress in inspections, licensing and record keeping will be


                                              38
        at risk if staff cannot be retained. Well-trained public sector staff often chooses to take
        better paid positions within the mining, oil and gas industry once those positions become
        available, making staff retention difficult.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1. Bank Performance

 106. (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry Rating: Moderately
      Satisfactory. Overall, the Project’s conceptual approach was appropriate and in line with
      World Bank experience and international good practice experience at the time for a
      fragile country in conflict seeking to attract international private sector investment. The
      scope of the proposed activities was very ambitious, but most of them were indeed
      implemented successfully. There was some under-budgeting for geological field work,
      largely reflecting a security situation that worsened more than expected. The M&E
      design was adequate and, while high level, the selected indicators were relevant and
      adequately linked with PDO, and although the results framework would have been
      strengthened if additional indicators had been added regarding environmental and social
      performance.


 107.    (b) Quality of Supervision Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The quality of
        supervision, with strong support from the Bank’s Country Office, progressively improved
        throughout implementation. The team undertook over 35 missions over the life of the
        project, including over 25 since 2010. While there were only seven ISRs prepared during
        the life of the project, 35 aide memoirs and BTORs were filed, each of which were
        reviewed and cleared by Bank management.


 108. The quality of supervision can be divided into two phases. Phase one started at inception
      through 2009, and is characterized by a lapse of attention which coincided with extreme
      security precautions following an attack that impacted the Kabul World Bank office and
      instability in the TTL ship/leadership in the project. There were four changes of Bank
      Task Team Leaders for the project (note that two TTLs are recorded within the system).

 109. Phase two began in 2010 and lasted throughout the life of the project, and is characterized
      by much more diligent supervision. During this period, there was continuity of Bank
      supervision, led by a very experienced mining TTL, which resulted significant
      improvements in the overall implementation of the project. In addition, an international
      senior social development specialist with knowledge of Afghanistan and conversant in
      Dari, and a project management specialist, both based in the field, were added to the team
      in 2010.

 110. Overall, the supervision of safeguards issues as well as financial and procurement aspects
      of the Project have been carried out in a timely, diligent and thorough manner. Field work
      in Afghanistan is carried out under extreme and risky security circumstances. In spite of
      these difficult challenges, the Bank team has made numerous field visits to the Aynak
      area, on those occasions when security permitted. Performance of the Bank under the
      above noted risks is considered exemplary. Senior management remained fully



                                               39
        supportive of the team in addressing the need for increased precautionary measures, and
        has implemented a “no visit” policy to other Bank teams to lessen security risks.

 111. (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance. Rating: Moderately
      Satisfactory. As noted previously, changes in the leadership led to lapses in supervision
      and slow progress in the early years of the project. In later years, the supervision team
      worked diligently to move the project forward and to intensively support the government
      in not only successfully tendering Aynak but providing support for the ancillary
      contracts, subsequent environmental and social protection work, and developing initial
      templates for use across the EI sector as a whole. The Bank supervision team also was
      very thorough and responsive in coordinating with a broad range of other donors over a
      very wide range of activities.


5.2. Borrower Performance

 112.    (a) Government Performance Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Government support
        was strong at the time of Project design, although during the first two years of
        implementation, the project was operating under a Minister who took hands-on control of
        procurement, micro-managed, and was slow to approve documents resulting in a
        protracted startup which delayed the pace of implementation. In the early years of the
        project, due to shortages of competent experienced staff, the Minister would also call
        upon the PMU to take on tasks that should have been undertaken by MoMP officials.
        Nevertheless, there was strong Government commitment at the national level to private
        sector investment across the economy as a whole. There was also strong commitment to
        private sector investment in EI. GoIRA recognized that large new mining and
        hydrocarbons investment could not be supported by public funds and hence developed a
        strategy of supporting new private sector investment. Strong government commitment
        to EI sector reform was evidenced by the preparation of “The Strategy for the Mineral
        Resources Sector, Afghanistan,” in April 2005 which was followed by approval of the
        modern mining and hydrocarbons legislation which were approved later in 2005. The
        government’s commitment over the lifetime of the Project remained strong and the new
        Minister appointed in late 2009 has consistently provided strong support to the project.
        However, until they are resolved, the present barriers of MOIC blocking the release of
        geological data will be of considerable concern.


 113.    (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance Rating: Moderately Satisfactor.
        Implementation arrangements were appropriately designed. A Project Management Unit
        (PMU) was established and was responsible for the day-to-day management of project
        implementation. Given that MoMP and other government officials in Afghanistan had
        little of the experience or capacity needed to implement a World Bank project, the PMU
        was comprised of a combination of local and international consultants, with the aim that
        international consultants would be phased out over time with project implementation
        skills and experience progressively developed by local consultants. However, the PMU
        required continued support throughout the project, especially regarding both procurement
        and financial management which have required improvement. Equally, it must be
        recognized that the PMU was called upon to undertake many ad hoc tasks for the



                                              40
       Minister due to a lack of experienced staff in MoMP, which placed certain strains on the
       project and the PMU. In addition, long delays in procurement approvals by the Minister
       in the early years of the project contributed somewhat to slow procurement and
       disbursement. Overall, the PMU performance is rated as moderately satisfactory


 114.  (c)  Justification  of  Rating  for  Overall  Borrower  Performance  Rating:  Moderately 
      Satisfactory.  In  light  of  the  above‐mentioned  assessments,  the  overall  borrower’s 
      performance  in  the  implementation  of  Project  activities  is  rated  as  Moderately 
      Satisfactory.    


6. Lessons Learned

 115. Key lessons learned from Project implementation include:


 116. Achieving Inclusive and Sustainable Growth - The SDNRP project, like other Mining
      Technical Assistance projects that have preceded it, demonstrates a key lesson learned
      that strong regulatory compliance in oil, gas and mining projects alone is not sufficient to
      achieve sustainability. Rather, there is need for inclusive growth that is measured by
      economic, environmental and social performance. The incorporation of this lesson
      learned is reflected in the design of SDNRP around (a) a Letter of Sector Development
      Policy (February 2006) defining the guiding principles and commitments of the MOMPP
      to good sector governance, and (b) the Interim Afghanistan National Development
      Strategy (I-ANDS, February 2006) defining the Government’s vision of consolidating
      peace and stability through just, democratic processes and institutions, reducing poverty,
      and achieving prosperity through broad-based and equitable economic growth. While the
      former document is specific to oil, gas and mining and is self-explanatory, the latter I-
      ANDS document merits some explanation. It includes a focus on mining and natural
      resources – and a commitment during a conference in London on January 31, 2006 for a
      five-year blueprint for mining and natural resources around (1) creation of an enabling
      regulatory environment for profitable extraction of mineral and natural resources by end-
      2006, and (2) improved investment environment and infrastructure to attract domestic
      and foreign direct investment to mining and natural resources by end-2010. Both
      elements are reflected in the design of the SDNRP.


 117. Being Prepared to Step in When Other Expected Support is Curtailed - When the
      expected World Bank Natural Resources project and companion World Bank
      Environmental project did not advance beyond concept stage (but concurrent with
      preparation of SDNRP), SDNRP had to step up its broader environmental support
      activities for NEPA. It should also be noted that the sequencing on environmental and
      social protection of EI developments became problematic in that the Law on
      Environment (2007) emerged and required revision to the Mining Law (2009) to remove
      duplication of roles and responsibilities shared across the two pieces of legislation.
      Additionally, the Law on Environment (2007) prescribed environmental but not social
      compliance requirements, a deficiency which has shown to be systemic to all facets of the
      economy. This deficiency was identified in 2008 with the preparation of a Resettlement


                                               41
      Policy Framework (RPF) under another IDA project and has since been identified within
      many donor interventions where land acquisition and resettlement is concerned. The
      lesson learned is that a large mining Technical Assistance should have the flexibility to
      take on broader environmental and social responsibilities if parallel activities are
      curtailed, especially in the situation of fragile, conflict states where environmental
      safeguards are not well established – as was the case in SDNRP. There is a similar lesson
      regarding the project having the capacity to step in when other assistance is unexpectedly
      discontinued as happened with the termination of the Afghanistan Technical Advisory
      Feasibility Unit (TAFSU) in late 2006, such that the SDNRP had to step in to make sure
      the government had the support needed to move ahead with the Aynak transaction.


118. An Evolving Programmatic-type Approach - From a strategic standpoint, there is
     always the question of how much can a technical assistance project achieve compared to
     seeking similar objectives through budget support as opposed to investment project
     lending. The project, together with the Additional Financing and the SDNRP2, has set in
     motion considerable improvements in both legal and regulatory framework and the
     institutional framework and institutional capacities. That being said, it was recognized
     early on in the project, that for the EI sector to lead to long-term sustainable inclusive
     growth in Afghanistan, the Bank would need to support a variety interventions through a
     programmatic approach which includes, traditional technical assistance to the MoMP
     (SDNRP 1 & 2); a National Resource Corridor Project; finding creative tools to leverage
     financing and mitigate risk for associated EI infrastructure; and Development Policy
     lending including triggers related to the passage of the mining law (2013).


119. Project Design - Keeping Project design relatively simple when operating in a fragile,
     country in conflict with complex environments, limited capacity, and a weak country
     implementation record. However, environmental and social safeguards must be given
     strong attention in a project providing technical assistance to the government to attract
     new investment.


120. Team Staffing and Supervision – The constitution of the Bank team and frequency of
     missions was critical to the overall operations of the project. The presence of very
     experienced mining, social and environmental specialists from the Bank, as well as
     frequent Bank supervision missions (every 6 – 10 weeks) proved to be crucial to the
     project responding effectively to meet new needs and challenges around the Aynak
     mineral deposit especially regarding environmental and social protection and introducing
     innovative concepts such as Mineral Resource Corridors.


121. FCS/Social and Environmental Safeguards – More broadly, given very weak capacity
     at the outset of the assistance, the client would have benefited from greater assistance,
     particularly in an FCS environment, in addressing the (unique) intersection between
     safeguards and development objectives. In addition, ensuring that there is strong adequate
     local staffing around environmental and social safeguards is critical in countries such as
     Afghanistan where the country has no prior experience in these areas.




                                             42
122. Protection of Physical Cultural Resources – As described above, several key lessons
     learned were identified during the Bank’s review in response to the Inspection Panel case
     against SNDRP2.         First, absent the initiative of the DAFA to mobilize a field
     investigation, the Ministry of Information and Culture was ill equipped to apply the
     modern technologies required. DAFA gave initial definition to the site and mobilized
     support through the MoMP to work with the Bank team to design a sustained approach.
     Second, the mine became a catalyst for protection of the site, something that was widely
     misrepresented in the media given sensational stories to the contrary. Communication
     on this issue was lacking through the MoMP for the first 18 months, allowing for
     continued dissemination of misleading and sensational stories. Third, MoMP was quick
     to establish a much needed strong partnership with the Bank on this issue and mobilized
     assistance that was compliant with OP 4.11. Absent a strong Minister committed to the
     protection of physical cultural resources, execution of actions compliant with OP 4.11
     would have been significantly impaired. Finally, while the Bank had an MOU with
     UNESCO, an agency whose expertise was needed to build capacity at MOIC, the Bank
     had no internal staff expertise on the intersection of mine development and physical
     cultural resource protection, and thus needed to rely on external archeological sources.


123. 118. Procurement – One key lesson learned was the need for deep capacity-building
     within the PMU of procurement processes, procedures and planning. The team found
     that a mixture of both national procurement staff with an understanding of the Ministry
     and experienced international procurement staff lead to increased efficiencies. On the
     basis of initial capacity building, SDNRP2 has just begun the process of putting in place a
     computerized procurement management systems and migrating the procurement
     functions of the PMU into the MoMP, which is expected to lead to even greater
     efficiency gains.


124. Financial Management -


125. Some specific lessons learned in project design which have been incorporated into
     SDNRP2 include the following:


126. Inter-Ministerial Coordination - The involvement of a range of Ministries and Ministers,
     on a broad range of issues, especially regarding land acquisition, compensation and
     consultation, should not be overlooked. The reluctance of MOIC to allow geological data
     to be publically released is a significant issue, which continues to be addressed through
     SDNRP2. Also, community consultation and engagement and compensation for land and
     resettlement are largely the responsibility of other ministries (in Afghanistan the Ministry
     of Agriculture) – thus the extent of engaging other ministries may go well beyond what is
     initially anticipated


127. Independent Verification - One of the innovations of the project design was the
     establishment of the IAP to provide high quality review of transactions. The successful
     role of the IAP points to an important lesson: independent experts (i.e. the IAP in


                                              43
       Afghanistan) can play an important role in independently verifying that transactions
       procedures have been properly followed and transactions have taken place in a non-
       corrupt and transparent manner.


 128. Importance of geological information - The key role for better quality geo information
      to attract serious investors for competitive mineral auctions has become clear, reinforced
      through the successful Aynak tender, and will guide the support for geo-data collection to
      be undertaken under the project.


 129. Experience with mineral auctions - The Aynak tender was the first international,
      transparent and competitive mineral bidding process to take place in Afghanistan, and
      has provided the Government and the Bank team with important insights around
      transaction preparations, bid documentation and evaluation and contract publication.


 130. Need for effective communication - While there is increased global interest in the
      Afghan mining sector, there remain deficiencies in providing accurate and appropriate
      information and communications and in countering misleading statements. An effective
      communication strategy will be developed under SDNRP II for the Ministry of Mines,
      and care will be taken that this is properly applied throughout the life of the project. The
      being said, Bank cannot rely exclusively on the client for effective communication and
      could benefit from a more proactive approach – getting beyond “mitigating institutional
      risk” as a reason not to communicate.


 131. Alignment of Government’s resettlement action plan - While the Government has
      required that an initial Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) is in place for Aynak, this is a
      new activity for Afghanistan and as such it is not yet fully aligned with World Bank
      guidelines vis a vis representative community consultation. The SDNRP II will support
      the development of a general RAP template in line with World Bank guidelines for
      application elsewhere within the sector and across the broader development agenda.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners    


       (a) Borrower/implementing agencies. No comments were received.
       (b) Co-financiers. Not applicable
       (c) Other partners and stakeholders. No comments were received.




                                               44
    8. Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing 

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                                                                         Percentage of
                                                                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Appraisal Estimate                                                          Appraisal
                                                                                  (USD millions)
       Components               (USD millions)          Revised Project Costs                             SDNRP1 &
                                                                               SDNRP1 & Additional
                                   SDNRP1              at Additional Financing                            Additional
                                                                                     Financing
                                                                                                           Financing
Component 1: Improving                  1.3                       0.3
Ministry of Mines’ Internal                                                                 -                  -
Efficiencies
Component 2: Developing                 9.0                       10.6
                                                                                           9.8
Regulatory Capacity
Component 3: Developing                10.0                       19.4
                                                                                           17.0
Mineral Resources
Component 4: Enhancing                 1.35                       1.3
                                                                                           1.2
Sector Governance
PMU + Operating Budget                 8.35                       8.4                      13.5

      Total Baseline Cost              30.0                       40.0                    41.51
Physical Contingencies                 0.00                       0.00                    0.00
Price Contingencies                    0.00                       0.00                    0.00
       Total Project Costs             0.00                       0.00
Front-end fee PPF                       1.5                        1.5                     1.5
Front-end fee IBRD                     0.00                       0.00                      .00
           Total Financing             30.0                       40.0                     41.5
                Required


1
 Adjusted for changes in the exchange rate at time of project closing


    (b) Financing

                                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                       Type of                                           Percentage of
                Source of Funds                                            Estimate        Estimate
                                                     Cofinancing                                          Appraisal
                                                                         (USD millions) (USD millions)
                    Borrower                                                 0.00            0.00             .00
                   IDA Grant                                                 30.00          40.00            1.25




                                                             45
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1: Administrative Efficiencies

The scope of Component One was reduced early in the project life and the funding cut back to
USD0.3 million from USD1.3 million because DFID were taking the lead on administrative
efficiencies and organizational restructuring for MoMP&P13. Under the project little progress
was made on human resources or the management of state-owned enterprises (which are MOMPs
main assets). However, these functions have been taken over by DFID.

    (i)       establishment of an operating information technology and financial management
              (FM) system;

Recognizing the need to improve FM, MoMP finally made the decision in August 2013 to
procure an FM system. The selected vendor supplying the FM system will provide workshops
with staff for up to 3 months for continuous capacity building, and support for 6 months.

    (ii)      defining a strategy for development of a finance and accounts unit;

A Finance and Accounts Unit was not established. However, most financial and accounting
functions are operating in a generally satisfactory manner.

    (iii)      designing administrative systems for performing internal audit functions and
              improving Ministry of Mines financial efficiencies; and

Quarterly Audit reports improved 2006-2010 with a concurrent increase in FM capacities around
planning and administration. Audit reports were unqualified for the duration of the project and
quarterly IFRs submitted on time. A 2013 overall assessment concluded that FM performance
was satisfactory and that a range of improvements had taken place regarding replenishments,
book keeping and advances. However, there remain FM planning and administration activities
which need further strengthening including budget preparation, auditing and strengthening
internal control systems.

    (iv)       Providing technical support to the budgetary process.

For many years the preparation of the MoMP budget did not follow adequate procedures.
Starting in 2011 with the lead of the PMU, the MoMP budgeting procedure has shown some
improvement and has led to the previously noted 2013 decision to procure an FM system, which
will include a satisfactory budget module. MoMP’s internal control system is acceptable.
Staffing is adequate and there is proper segregation of duties. However, no internal audits of the
project’s activities were carried out until 2010. In order to build and strengthen internal audit
capacity, the recruitment of an internal audit firm was completed late 2012 for mobilization in
May 2013.

Component 2: Developing Regulatory Capacity




13
   As noted under Component 3 (a) a Petroleum Authority was established in MoMP and the Ministry subsequently
renamed the Ministry of Mines and Petroleum (MoMP). In this section and thereafter in the report the Ministry will
now be referred to as MoMP


                                                         46
       Establishment of new departments within Ministry of Mines to effectively regulate and
handle mining and hydrocarbons activities.

Three regulatory departments have been established as follows:
    Mining and Hydrocarbons Inspectorate,
    Mining and Hydrocarbons Title Registry and Cadastre,
    Environmental and Social Protection Department

A program of education and technical training has been provided to core MoMP staff to
operationalize the activities of each Department resulting in significant process. None of these
functions existed prior to the project being implemented and major progress has been achieved in
establishing, building capacity and operationalizing them.

    (i)     a mining and hydrocarbons inspectorate

A Mining and Hydrocarbons Inspectorate has been established, with all inspection activities now
centralized and functioning well. Considerable training, including on-site training in other
countries, has been provided and inspectors are demonstrating good competency regarding
inspecting the smaller mining operations which make up the mining industry in Afghanistan. A
small-scale Mining and Extension Services Unit has not been put in place but inspectors are
providing advice to small miners. SDNRP2 will formalize an Extension Services Unit (2013).
While substantial progress has been made, considerable more training and experience will be
needed for the inspectors to be able to adequately oversee a very large world class mining
operation on the scale that Aynak and Hajigak will be. MoMP has contracted an independent
monitoring agency, GAF, under a multi-year contract to strengthen MoMP inspection and
contract compliance monitoring functions through: (i) training of inspectors; (ii) establishing of a
contract compliance office; and iii) providing in-depth support for monitoring the Aynak and
Hajigak developments including to Aynak’s compliance with its contractual and regulatory
obligations. GAF has been operating for the last year and will continue to do so for the next
three years. GAF supports the work of the Government Mining Inspector and collaborates with
the MoMP, NEPA, its advisors, and national counterpart staff. GAF assumes the responsibility
for auditing, monitoring, over- seeing and assisting the Government in enforcement of MJAM’s
regulatory and contractual obligations.

    (i)     a mining and hydrocarbons title registry and cadastre which will house a licensing
            unit and a production and royalty audit unit;

A Mining and Hydrocarbons Title Registry and Cadastre have been established with licensing
activities now centralized and licenses issued through the mining cadastre. Over one hundred
twenty mining licenses and hydrocarbons contracts have been published on the MoMP external
website. The cadastre is operating efficiently and professionally on a manual basis with
digitization starting to take place. MoMP has also completed two internationally competitive
hydrocarbon bid rounds, and published the results and Production Sharing Agreements to the
MoMP website.          With the support of expert foreign transactions advisors MoMP has
demonstrated the capacity to oversee the preparation and internationally competitive tendering of
world class deposits like Aynak and Hajigak and to evaluate tenders and select the preferred
bidder; and to negotiate mineral development agreements. Not all of the smaller units identified
in the Technical Annex have been established, although most functions are being undertaken.




                                                47
    (ii)    an environmental and social protection department which will work with the
            National Environmental Protection Agency to provide broad oversight of
            environmental issues across sectors; and

Environmental protection capacity scarcely existed in Afghanistan, let alone for the EI sector,
when the project was initiated and extensive work has taken place under the project to build such
capacity within both MoMP and NEPA. An Environmental and Social Protection Department
was established and has worked with the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) on
EI environmental issues. The Department was later renamed the Social Protection Department as
NEPA became able to undertake an expanded role on EI environmental issues. Across the life of
the SNDRP, assistance on environmental and social issues has been provided through two
strategies (a) placement of individual consultants to assist the Environmental and Social
Protection Department and MoMP overall with day-to-day issues that arise; and (b) placement of
firms to undertake longer-term sustained capacity building within MoMP and increasingly (late in
the life of SDNRP) with NEPA.

A draft Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA) was prepared from 2008-2011 by
consultants hired under the project. The SESA was subject to an in depth review by MoMP itself
who determined that it did not address some issues sufficiently. A draft Environmental and
Social Management Framework (ESMF) was subsequently prepared for the project which is
informing a newer (2013) “Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment – Extractive Industry
Sector Afghanistan” (SESA-ESIA) which will govern environmental and social procedures for
the sector. In January 2013 a draft Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared. The
finalization of the ESMF has been delayed because of the need to complete the SESA-EISA first,
and thereafter use that understanding to inform and improve capacity constraints within the
Government and associated roles and responsibilities relating to key elements of the ESMF.
MoMP has contracted an independent monitoring agency, GAF, under a multi-year contract to
strengthen MoMP and NEPA’s inspection and contract compliance monitoring functions.

With regard to Aynak, the project has facilitated preparation of the regulatory review processes
for review of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA), the Environmental and
Social Management Plan (ESMP), the Feasibility Study (FS) and the Mine Closure Plan (MCP)
for Aynak which MJAM is required to prepare and submit to government. The project also
facilitated workshops between NEPA and MJAM regarding the methodology and process that has
been crafted around that regulatory review process. Under the additional financing, very
extensive environmental work and social work has been undertaken on Aynak including a major
consultation program with affected peoples and development of an Action Plan to protect the
antiquities at Mes Aynak. The project became the main conduit for NEPA capacity building –
in particular as it applied to NEPA’s role for extractive industries.   A Civil Society Natural
Resource Monitoring Network (CSNRMN) began November 2012 that represents over thirty five
CSOs, covering most areas of the country and reaching down to the village level.

The project has included training MoMP officials in improving social performance and in
developing a social policy framework for the mining sector. Social policy guidelines for the
mining sector have been developed and the Government’s capacity to mitigate risks was
substantially increased, notably through the ongoing implementation of a Strategic Environmental
/ Social Assessment and provision of additional support to MoMP through international social
safeguard specialists. Government agencies have strengthened the land acquisition process for
Aynak, including methodology, consultation, and compensation (2010-2013); completed the first
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) in 2012; and
demonstrated adoption of international practice in resettlement, including master planning of the


                                               48
resettlement site and provision of key infrastructure (2011-2013). An ongoing process of local,
public disclosure has been established which resulted in the 2013 publication of the first Mes
Aynak Archeology Project Quarterly. The project has supported community monitoring with a
pilot study in the Logar Valley around Aynak

    (iii)          a mining licensing board to review the activities of the three aforementioned
                   departments with respect to the rights of investors to operate in the sector, all
                   through the provision of technical advisory services and training to staff, acquisition
                   of equipment, and preparation of operational guidelines for the new departments.

The Mining Licensing Board was not established. Instead, for small and medium scale mining an
Evaluation Committee reviews the license applications and recommends the contract award. This
Committee also reviews contract termination issues. For large oil, gas and mining projects (such
as Aynak and Hajigak) – the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) established in 2007 has become
the decision-making body for license and contract decisions. In 2011 the project supported
creation of an IMC Secretariat having legal and engineering disciplines to support the IMC.

Part 3: Developing Mineral Resources

            (a)        Supporting the sector policy unit of Ministry of Mines in formulating extractive
                       industry policy, undertaking market analysis and preparing sector laws,
                       regulations and guidelines, through the provision of technical advisory services
                       and training to staff.

A Sector Policy Unit has not been established in MoMP. Instead, its functions in terms of
formulating extractive industry policy; preparing sector laws, regulations and guidelines; and
undertaking promotional events. Updating of the Occupational Health and Safety regulations is
largely completed as part of the preparation of new mining regulations which are pending passage
of a draft revised 2013 Minerals Law which also addresses key environmental and social
performance standards. No market analyses have been undertaken. An Investment Promotion
Department was established in 2012 to actively promote EI investment in Afghanistan. In
addition, recognizing the potential importance of hydrocarbons a Petroleum Authority was
established in 2013 within MoMP&PP. A Resource Corridor team was established within MoMP
to prepare analytical work on the linkages of major oil, gas and mining development to (a)
infrastructure and (b) the local and national economies.
-
         (b)     Supporting the Recipient’s geological survey process through:

            (i)        the provision of technical support for mapping of prospective mineral regions
                       and mineral resource assessments;

There was an organizational restructuring of AGS in 2006 and substantial mapping of prospective
mineral regions and mineral resource assessments undertaken from 2007-2012. In 2010 a
decision was taken to use a train-the-trainer approach in which only nationals would be sent to the
field to lessen risks of possible kidnapping of consultants and violence towards AGS staff and
local communities.

            (ii)       development of a geographic information system for internet based distribution
                       of information and establishment of a public information center; and




                                                      49
         Considerable technical support has been provided to the AGS for field-based geological
investigations and mapping of prospective mineral regions and over 100 mineral resource
assessments and 21 In-field mineral district studies have been completed by AGS. There has
been good progress in the development of a geographic information system for internet-based
distribution of information – the web design is already done, but migrating to a server is presently
constrained by hardware limitations. The proposed AGS Public Information Center (PIC) not yet
been established. The MoIC has not yet given permission for the geological and other data to be
made available on line by a PIC and this is a potentially major stumbling block to public access to
geological data. Thus, geological information is not yet readily available to potentially interested
investors.

        (iii)   establishment of a business development unit to design short-term resource
                development strategies, serve as the interface to the private sector in basic
                information, Ministry of Mines activities and tender of resource properties,
                participating in industry trade shows and conferences, and preparing
                promotional materials.

The development within AGS of a Business Development Unit has not been a priority at this
stage and instead the Ministers Office has taken the lead in a satisfactory manner, with AGS
providing expert support. The polices and operations of marketing, promotion and tendering of
mineral and petroleum acreage have been fulfilled in a satisfactory manner by the Minister’s
Office supported by international transaction advisors and MoMP&P staff. The minerals sector
has been promoted so far through participation at five leading international mining conferences.

        (c)     Carrying out of an inventory of the assets of mineral-based state-owned
enterprises, conducting strategic sector studies and analyzing the functioning and comparative
advantages of state-owned enterprises, with a view to developing concrete recommendations for
improvement of the regulation of the mineral and hydrocarbons sector.

The inventory of state-owned enterprises and the preparation of strategic sector studies was not
accomplished under the project but both are being addressed as part of the DFID work with
MoMP&P.

Part 4: Enhancing Sector Governance

         (a)     Establishment of an international advisory council to: (i) review procedures for
awarding licenses and contracts for all major transactions as well as the negotiated licenses and
contacts so as to ensure the conformity of each transaction with international best practice; and
(ii) conduct an annual audit of cadastre functions, all through the provision of technical advisory
services.

The International Advisory Council was established in 2008 and renamed International Advisory
Panel (IAP) in year 2010. The IAP has been fulfilling all the above functions in a fully
satisfactory manner. The IAP has reviewed procedures for awarding licenses and contracts for all
major transactions and confirmed that each transaction follows regulatory requirements and
conforms to international best practice. The IAP has also conducted annual audits of cadastre
functions and found them satisfactory. The hydrocarbon bid rounds and the mineral deposit
tenders were internationally competitive and the results published on the MoMP&P website along
with small-scale mining license. The tenders for Aynak and Hajigak were both transparent
competitive and reviewed by the IAP whose reports are also published.



                                                50
        (b)     Supporting the implementation of EITI principles through the establishment of a
multi-stakeholder EITI committee to agree upon procedures, develop a work plan for
implementation, design a reporting template, and disseminate and engage the public in
discussion of audit findings.

The government has endorsed the principles of the EITI and Afghanistan was accepted in
February 2010 as an EITI candidate country with implementation structure in place. The Multi-
stakeholder EITI Group (MSG) is established and functional with members drawn from the
government, extractive industries, and civil society. Strong progress has been made and the
project supported the funding of the first two EITI reconciliation reports, covering mining sector
data from 2009 to 2011, which were prepared in 2012 and public consultations held on the
second report EITI validation process has been started and is advancing. From 2010 onwards,
the project also took the role of a coordinator among EITI funding agencies.

Coordination with Other donors. The project has coordinated very closely with DFID’s work
on MoMP&P which has included a functional management review of MoMP, preparation of an
MoMP&P Reorganization Plan and an MoMP&P business Plan, capacity building around key
MoMP&P departments and functions and work on sub-sector (commodity) policies. DFID has
also led work on a major revision to the 2009 Mining Law (the draft 2013 Minerals Law). The
project has also cooperated closely with the US TFBSO to tender four known mineral deposits
where good exploration data was available and for a hydrocarbon bidding round. There was also
cooperation with NORAD for a hydrocarbon bidding round and with AUSAID for the Resource
Corridor Initiative. The project has cooperated with the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs
regarding DAFA’s work at Aynak. The project also supported MoMP&P with an advisor to
strengthen donor coordination and provided strong support along with other donors to the EITI
and took the lead in helping to coordinate rapidly growing support for EITI from several different
donors including coordinating regular meetings to allocate funding and technical support as
needed and ensure sufficient financing is available for all activities that need to be undertaken to
ensure successful




                                                51
                                    Annex 2: Appendix A
            Key Actions taken from 2009-2012 and Progress regarding consultation
              and resettlement of Communities in the Aynak mining license area

Key Milestone              Dates           Evidence of Progress against Key Outcome Indicators
Cadastral Survey of the    20 April 2009   Comprehensive Report of Aynak Authority
villages likely to be
affected by mining at                      Minutes of the Cabinet Meeting ordering formation of Committee for the
Aynak                                      cadastral survey at Aynak.
                                                     Important milestone in terms of joint collaboration to exert
                                                      regulatory control -- the Committee comprising of
                                                      representatives from MoMP, MAIL, Mo I&C, IDLG, Cadastral,
                                                      Geodesy & Cartography Departments of Logar Province,
                                                      Provincial Council and representatives of affected villagers.

Public Consultation by     13 May 2009     With reference to the resolution passed by Ministerial Council on 30th Apr
MoMP                                       2009, a meeting was held in the Ministry under the chairmanship of
                                           Deputy Minister with Aynak project affected people and representatives
                                           of PAP’s.
Progress of     cadastre   23    Aug-30    Surveyors from Cadastre division of Geodesy and Cartography Dept /
work      and     public   Aug 2009        MoMP started cadastral mapping as well as acquisition and expropriation
consultation                               of villagers’ land. They completed cadastral mapping of Adam Killai,
                                           Wali Killai and Siso Tangi villages. The area surveyed consisted of 110
                                           plots covering 1200 jeribs of land in the villages in vicinity of Aynak mine
                                           site.
Initiation            of   5th  October    Minutes of the Ministerial Council meeting instructing the Geodesy and
Expropriation work         2009            Cartography Department and Governor of Logar province to take action
                                           for expropriation of the lands which were required to be acquired for the
                                           project activities.
Formation of Land          2nd February    A land commission was formed under the Deputy Minister, MoMP as per
Commission at Aynak        2010            the Presidential Order for orderly land acquisition.
Progress   of    Land      18-25 April     Pursuant to the Presidential directive dated 30 October 2009, the land
Commission                 2010            acquisition team was constituted from the relevant organizations headed
                                           by the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation.

                                           It started the acquisition and expropriation of real estate belonging to the
                                           residents of Aynak and its surrounding area on 13 December 2009. The
                                           activities commenced from the villages of Wali Killai, Adam Killia and
                                           Siso Tangai.
Public Consultation        8 April 2010    A meeting attended by the Deputy Minister of MoMP, site engineer and
                                           district governor of Mohammad Agha and the representatives of Aynak
                                           residents to discuss the expropriation of land required for project.
                                                     Important milestone -- Agreement signed by representatives of
                                                      villagers as well.

Public Consultation        27 May 2010     Deputy Minister from MoMP visited Aynak copper deposit to discuss
                                           with villagers the issues pertaining to mine clearance, land acquisition and
                                           expropriation, construction.
                                                    Important milestone – MoMP led consultation

Cadastre Survey report     August 2010     Cadastre team in Wali Killai village identified 101 families to be covered
and agreement with the                     for compensation. 42 families out of 101 were residing in this village. The
villagers          for                     compensation for 42 families totally amounted to 4700000Afs. Report
compensation                               also outlined the compensation amount as agreed to with the villagers for
                                           their residential land and houses.
Tripartite    Agreement    7th  August     An agreement signed between Ministry of Mines, MJAM and Governor
for compensation to        2010            Logar for payment of compensation to the affected families of Wali Killai
affected families                          village at Aynak based on market process of the land and other assets.
Relocation of villagers    August 2010     Government decided to relocate 42 families living at Wali Killai village to
at Wali Killai                             nearby areas after paying them compensation for their houses and
                                           relocation grant.



                                                        52
Public Consultation        4 September     Social Advisor, Ministry of Mines under SDNR project visited Aynak on
                           2010            4th September along with other officials of the Ministry. A short
                                           questionnaire was developed for getting information from the residents of
                                           Wali Killai as given in Annexure 13. The results of the questionnaire are
                                           also discussed in Annexure 12 along with names of villagers interacted
                                           with.
Minutes of High Level      17   October    Social Advisor, Ministry of Mines under SDNRP project assisted Ministry
Consultation       with    2010            to organize consultations with the villagers at Aynak regarding
villagers at Aynak                         compensation. Consultations were led by the Deputy Minister, Minister of
                                           Mines and Governor Logar province; participants included representatives
                                           from Sub Governor’s office, Director of refugees, Provincial Councils,
                                           Chief of Tribes, Mayor, large number of villagers.

                                           DM as well as Governor outlined to the villagers the importance of the
                                           project for the national development and the direct and indirect benefits
                                           the villagers in terms of infrastructural development, employment
                                           generation, etc.
Training on conducting     November        Under SDNRP project, Social Advisor conducted two day training of the
socio economic survey      2010            Ministry officials on conducting socio economic surveys at the mine sites.
ESIA                       Nov     2010-   Social Development Advisor continues coordinating with MCC and
                           ongoing         Hagler Bailey, the agency hired for conducting the environmental and
                                           social impact assessment at Aynak.

                                           The questionnaires for socio economic survey to be carried out by Hagler
                                           Bailey (HB) and methodology reviewed and agreed

                                           Meetings were also held with NEPA on coordination issues involving
                                           NEPA and MoMP for the Aynak project, developing ESIA and
                                           resettlement action plan and other environmental issues.
Active      inter-agency   November        SDNRP project provided necessary coordination support for active inter-
coordination on cultural   2010-           agency coordination on cultural issues at Aynak which resulted in
antiquities issues at      December        initiation of a project for protection and preservation of antiquities at
Aynak                      2011            Aynak.

                                           Meetings organized by MoMP at sites and detailed notes were prepared
                                           relating to preservation and protection of cultural antiquities at Aynak
                                           which were put on the ministry’s website for wide circulation and
                                           information and to ensure transparency in the ministry’s efforts.
Socio economic Survey      Dec     2010-   Ministry with the assistance of its Social Advisor under SDNRP project
                           January 2011    conducted a household HH survey in Dec 2010-Jan 2011 to assess the
                                           living conditions of the local communities, their income and expenditure
                                           levels, size of agricultural land, assets owned and their feedback on the
                                           resettlement process.
                                           Survey in three villages, Wali Killai, Bar Chinarai and Kooz Chinarai
                                           covering about 80 families. To cover the gender aspect, female
                                           enumerators from the local area were also employed to collect data from
                                           women in these communities.
Setting up of Social       December        A Social protection department was set up in the Ministry to assist in
Department  in  the        2010            carrying forward activities related to social development at mine sites
Ministry                                   particularly Aynak. This staff involved in mainstreaming social issues in
                                           the policies and projects of the ministry and conducting capacity building
                                           of the different departments on social issues.

                                           MoMP social staff coordinates with other ministries on land acquisition
                                           and compensation issues, conducting socio-economic baseline studies in
                                           the project areas like Aynak and assisting ministry in developing the
                                           rehabilitation package if the project involves relocation and resettlement
                                           of the communities.
Focus group meetings at    January 2011    Wide range consultations were held with villagers in three villages Wali
Aynak                                      Killai, Bar Chinarai and Kooz Chinarai.




                                                       53
Focus group meetings      February       Local women enumerators interact with women of the affected families at
with women at Aynak       2011           Aynak on the impact of the project and their expectations on
                                         infrastructural development and employment.



Revised         Socio-    Feb-March      MoMP provided to the Bank Resettlement Action Plan: Social team from
Economic Survey           2011           the Ministry visited villages in end January to check the veracity of the
                                         HH survey report and decided to re-survey after consultations with village
                                         heads and local communities. HH census was again carried out in
                                         February- March 2011. Alongside the socio-economic survey, focus group
                                         meetings were held with stakeholders for purposes of better understanding
                                         of the socio-economic baseline of target groups.

                                         The socio economic survey was conducted in three villages in Aynak,
                                         Wali Killai, Bar Chinarai and Kooz Chinarai covering about 100 families
                                         To cover the gender aspect, separate data has been collected from the
                                         women in these families by a group of women surveyors belonging to that
                                         area. A comprehensive questionnaire was prepared in consultation with
                                         World Bank social safeguards team (Annexure 28). Surveyors were
                                         given training at World Bank and Ministry on the methodology for
                                         conducting the socio economic survey.
Report of Social Survey   March 2011     The Social Team conducted the social survey in Koz and Bar Chenaria
                                         villages. There are currently 42 families consisting of 316 people. Bar
                                         Chenaria village, the survey conducted by the Social Advisory Office of
                                         MoMP, concluded no families resident.
Public Consultations      29 May 2011    Consultations were held with the representatives of Kooz Chinarai, Bar
                                         Chinarai, Wali Kalai, Adam Kalai, and Siso Tangai villages on issues of
                                         land acquisition and compensation.

                                         Residents raised the issue of customary use lands with no titles.
Systematic Approach to    Jan 2011-Oct   With the technical assistance under SDNRP project, Ministry has been
public consultation       2011           following a systematic approach in consulting the communities in the
                                         villages like Bar Chinarai, Kooz Chinarai at Aynak. The Aynak Authority
                                         officials are closely working with local communities at Aynak to resolve
                                         grievances they have with respect to compensation for land, employment
                                         at mine site etc.
Training program for      June-July      Under the SDNRP project, a training program was organized by the Social
Ministry of Mines’        2011           Advisor on Social Impact Mitigation Strategies in Mining Sector at Indian
officials                                School of Mines (ISM) for participants from MoMP, MAIL and NEPA
                                         from 28th June to 10th July 2011 for 25 participants.

                                         It included filed visit to iron ore mine areas in Goa region in India for
                                         creating better understanding of social development activities by the
                                         mining companies in these areas.
Inter-agency Meeting      06 July 2011   A meeting was held chaired by DM, MoMP and consisting of ALA,
on land acquisition                      Cadastre department, Aynak Authority mainly to discuss issues related to
issues at Aynak                          land acquisition at Aynak and the compensation process.
Social           Policy   July 2011      Social Policy Guidelines disclosed on Ministry Website which will
Guidelines for Mining                    strengthen the Afghan Government’s role to ensure community
Sector in Afghanistan                    development in the project areas through a social impact assessment (SIA)
                                         function, conducting social impact plans (SIPs) to outline the forecast
                                         changes to communities, the decide on the strategies for mitigation,
                                         avoidance and enhancement of impacts, and the responsibility of various
                                         parties in relation to management.
                                         The policy will seek to implement best international practices and are
                                         intended as a basis for the formulation of a unified policy and framework
                                         for social development to enable long term sustainable community
                                         development for present and future mining projects of Afghanistan.
Civil           Society   12 July 2011   Meeting chaired by Minister of Mines with the members of civil society
Consultation                             discussing rehabilitation of local communities.          Issues related to
                                         challenges in enforcement of the law were also discussed. Presentations



                                                     54
                                          with regard to social policy guidelines of mining sector.
                                          Social Advisor to the Ministry under SDNRP presented lessons learnt
                                          from Aynak project with respect to social development activities at mine
                                          sites.
Inter-ministerial          31 July 2011   A meeting held at the level of Ministers of Mines and Agriculture and
Meeting      on   land                    Governor Logar with all relevant departments of the two ministries to
acquisition issues at                     accelerate the land acquisition process and provide fair compensation to
Aynak                                     the local communities.

                                          The land acquisition committee presented its progress report. The Survey
                                          Teams of the Cadastre Department, Geodesy and Cartography Department
                                          and Land Settlement Teams of Land Authority Office as per the
                                          Presidential decree had initiated their work and the Cadastral Survey of
                                          Aynak and its surrounding villages including Wali Kelai, Adam Kelai,
                                          Sisto Tangia, Hesar Tangi, Pachi, Babo Khel, Tobagai, Dashtak, and Koz
                                          Chenaria had been completed. During the meeting they presented the
                                          details of the land settlement of the 7 villages which had been sent to the
                                          Land Authority Office.
Report      of     the     September      ALA presented the report of the Land Settlement Commission to Ministry
Afghanistan       Land     2011           of Mines in respect to villages located at the Part I and Part II of Dasht-e-
Authority                                 Tobagia area and villages of Dashtak. The report outlined the size of
                                          Private agricultural lands, private rain fed lands, residential areas, and
                                          governmental rain fed lands and arid land in these villages. It also
                                          provided details of the families which needed to be compensated for their
                                          agricultural land.
Consultations     with     13   October   MoMP and Logar province Governor office organized this consultation to
residents of Adam          2011           brief the local communities re land acquisition process, relocation to
Killai, Siso Tangai,                      resettlement site, compensation rate of land, houses, fruit and non-fruit
Wali     Baba,   Kooz                     trees, lands under acquisition plan, prevention of environmental impacts
Chinarai, Bar Chinarai,                   posed by the Aynak Project etc.
Tobagai, Hesar Tangai,
Dashtak, Dawran Khel                      Important Milestone -- residents were informed about the joint proposal
and Anwar Gumran                          prepared by the Ministry of Mines, Ministry of Agriculture and Logar
villages                                  Governor Office and PAP’s requested that compensation be paid as per
                                          the proposal submitted to President.

Presidential approval to   24   October   The joint proposal of MoMP, Ministry of Agriculture and Logar Governor
Joint proposal for land    2011           Office in regard to expediting the implementation of land acquisition
acquisition         and                   process in Aynak mining area was approved by the President.
compensation
Social           Impact    October 2011   SIA disclosed on Ministry Website: SIA was conducted to enable MoMP
Assessment (SIA) for                      and the project developer MJAM to take a decision about location of
Tailings pond Options                     tailings pond & smelter plant at Aynak considering their impact on local
                                          communities. The three options were Dashtak, Tobagai and Pachai.
                                          Ministry officials were trained under SDNRP to conduct a socio economic
                                          survey in August 2011 and a census household survey of 454 households
                                          in Dashtak and Tobagai areas.

                                               -    Important Milestone As a result of this SIA conducted under
                                                    SDNRP, MJAM decided to locate tailings pond at the option 2
                                                    and 3.

Rates for compensation     December       MoMP provided to the Bank Compensation rates for loss of trees, based
for     fruit     trees-   2011           on local market rates.
Methodology
Rates of Compensation      December       MoMP provided to the Bank Compensation procedures and methodology
for    walls,    wells,    2011           for other structures using local market prices
verandah            etc-
Methodology
Order          forming     7    January   SDNRP supported Ministry in setting up GRC in order to meet the
Grievance     redressal    2012           requirements of the project and comply with the WB policies with regard



                                                       55
Committee (GRC)                                to involuntary resettlement to settle the grievances made concerning land
                                               acquisition, resettlement and other relevant issues.
                                               The committee meets regularly at least once a month during the
                                               implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan and proposes corrective
                                               measures at the local level and set the responsibilities for execution of
                                               decisions.
Resettlement        Action   Feb-      April   Senior Social Development Advisor under SDNR prepared RAP for 5
Plan (RAP)                   2012              villages at Aynak. The draft was shared with WB Kabul office and based
                                               on the comments received it was revised and up loaded on Ministry web
                                               site for wide dissemination. The RAP was also shared with relevant
                                               departments in the Ministry and other relevant stakeholders. It was
                                               prepared in accordance with the government’s resettlement policies,
                                               relevant Afghan laws and World Bank’s operational policies and
                                               guidelines on involuntary resettlement.
Dissemination of RAP         May 2012          Core parts of the RAP were translated into Dari and uploaded on Ministry
                                               website to facilitate wider dissemination. They were also shared with the
                                               local communities at Aynak and disseminated through the office of
                                               provincial and district governor, provincial councils, MJAM office etc.
Training program for         20 May-      1    A 10 days training program on mitigation strategies of Social and
Ministry officials at        June 2012         Environmental impacts of mining operations was organized by Indian
Indian School of Mines                         School of Mines (ISM) at New Delhi from 21st to 31st May 2012 for
                                               Ministry of Mines’ officials.

                                               Senior Social Development Advisor under SDNRP closely collaborated
                                               with ISM in developing the curriculum for the training and all other
                                               arrangements for the training program.

                                               Curricula included preparation of the Environment and Social
                                               Management Plan, Environmental Impact Mitigation Plan, Occupational
                                               Health and Safety Plan and Corporate Social Responsibility. Participants
                                               were also taken on a study tour to the state of Rajasthan to visit the zinc
                                               and lead mines and given exhaustive presentations on extraction of zinc
                                               and lead mine, Environmental Mitigation Plan, Mineral Law and
                                               Regulations, Corporate Social Responsibility.
GRM at Aynak                 Ongoing           A grievance redressal mechanism (GRM) at Aynak established under
                                               SDNRP with support in training for Ministry officials. The Grievance
                                               Redressal Committee has been formed at Aynak with members from the
                                               communities, NGO, Mining Company, MoMP, office of Provincial
                                               Governor and District Governor.

                                               Project affected persons are being made aware of their rights and the
                                               procedures for making a grievance.

                                               First meeting of the GRC was held on 12th December involving the
                                               Communities, Ministry of Mines and Governor Logar. Meetings held
                                               fortnightly at the mine site and the MoMP Social Unit will provide
                                               necessary support to document the proceedings properly.
Community                    Ongoing           With the technical assistance of the Social Development Advisor under
Engagement                                     SDNR project, Ministry is conducting regular meetings with the
                                               communities through an 18 member Commission appointed by the
                                               Government to facilitate effective process of resettlement and payment of
                                               compensation to the project affected persons.
Development             of   Ongoing           Report placed on Ministry Website         regarding development of the
Resettlement Site                              resettlement township, Asah Baba which is about 5-6 kms from Aynak.

                                               Government is providing important infrastructural facilities that are not
                                               available to the communities at Aynak. Affected communities have been
                                               extensively consulted on their requirements at the resettlement site.
Social   Accountability      May-     2012     A pilot of social accountability model funded by SDNRP is under
Model                        onwards- still    implementation at Aynak by IRC. It includes social mobilization and
                             continuing        setting up of Community Development Councils at Aynak through a



                                                            56
                                   democratic system representing both men and women. The project will
                                   also carry out awareness generation of the project affected communities.
                                   Through targeted training and communication campaign, the community
                                   members will be informed about compensation (package, amount, and
                                   need for opening a bank account), housing safety standard, and hygiene
                                   and health care.

                                   IRC has initiated trainings on social accountability mechanisms, and the
                                   community members informed of the grievance redressal mechanism
                                   established by MoMP, in particular, on its benefit and access.

                                   Many rounds of consultation were held with IRC from May 2012 onwards
                                   to finalise the implementation of Social Accountability pilot at Aynak.

                                   Important milestone -- IRC has developed training modules for support to
                                   communities in skills up gradation, awareness about need for education,
                                   health and hygiene issues and mechanisms to build safer homes at
                                   resettlement site, community members will be informed of moderate
                                   housing standard (such as using a concrete beam) to reduce impact of
                                   potential natural disasters etc.
                                   Important milestone - IRC has started mobilisation of the communities for
                                   forming them into Community Development Councils (CDCs). IRC has
                                   experience of supporting communities in forming CDCs in other areas of
                                   Logar province.
Capacity Building of   September   Full Training Report with training material and evaluation of the training
Ministry of Mines’     2012        on Ministry website: four day training was organized by Senior Social
officials                          Development Advisor along with the Social Unit from 23-26th September
                                   at AGS for 25 officials from Department of Inspections, Cadastre, Policy,
                                   Investment Promotion and Aynak Authority of Ministry of Mines. The
                                   issues discussed during the training included Social Policy, Social Impact
                                   Assessments, Environmental Impact Assessments, land acquisition
                                   legislation and their proposed amendments, corporate social
                                   responsibility, community development agreements etc.
                                   Important Milestone -- An evaluation of the training program was
                                   conducted using feedback forms filled by the participants.
                                   Overwhelmingly large number of participants found the training very
                                   useful and the training tools as very effective and all them would want to
                                   have further trainings in issues like land acquisition, CSR and CDAs.




                                               57
Annex 2: Appendix B

Additional Evidence of Progress in Key Thematic Areas

Technical Annex Section C paras 4-17        Evidence of Progress
Component 1: Improving Internal
Efficiencies
[Component 1] strengthens capacity and      2006-2010 Support was given by the PMU Financial staff to MoMP staff
streamlines   processes   within     the    for the preparation of the budget and reporting on an as required basis.
Administration Department of MoMP
covering: budget and planning, financial    2010 MTR reported substantial progress being made in assigning budgets
management,       human       resources,    and regulatory functions to priority areas and the corresponding
information technology, and asset           departments.     An in-house comprehensive training program on
management.                                 government and World Bank procurement procedures consisting of 10
                                            modules was given to relevant MoMP staff as requested by MoMP.
The project will assist MoMP in having
an operating information technology and     In addition to that, a formal English training was given by the British
financial management system.                Council but was terminated before completion due to declining attendance
                                            and security concerns. Management training was given to most of the
                                            middle and top managers of AGS and the MoMP. However, the training
                                            program was terminated by the former Minister of Mines. A financial
                                            management system is operating but little progress has been made
                                            regarding an operating information technology system.

                                            The 2010 MTR reported that little progress was being achieved regarding
                                            strengthening financial management, human resources, information
                                            technology, asset management or having an operating information
                                            technology and financial management system. Little progress was also
                                            being made regarding defining a strategy for development of a Finance
                                            and Accounts Unit; defining administrative systems for performing
                                            internal audit functions and improving MoMP financial efficiencies.

5. [Component 1 will also] define a         In consideration of this, and in dialogue between the Bank and DFID in
strategy for development of a Finance and   2010, DFID procured Adam Smith Institute to begin reinforcing Technical
Accounts Unit including staffing, budget,   Assistance focusing on (a) functional management review and
and     skills    requirements;    define   restructuring of MoMP, (b) capacity building around key departments and
administrative systems for performing       functions and (c) work on sub-sector (commodity) policies.
internal audit functions and improving
MoMP financial efficiencies on the basis    The reinforcing work of DFID was particularly helpful in that it was off-
of market-based budget and accounting       budget aide that allowed ASI to (a) assign consultants in a more flexible
practices; and provide technical support    fashion as new issues were identified; (b) review progress with the
to the budgetary process.                   Minister ex poste rather than seeking clearance at each step. This latter
                                            point had impeded SDNRP under the previous Minister who was less
                                            supportive of restructuring to a more streamlined ministry.

                                            Important Milestones –
                                                    From 2006 – 2008 MoMP failed to submit acceptable budget
                                                     plans to MoF in a timely fashion. Starting 2009 MoMP has
                                                     shown marked improvement in capacity to prepare budget plans
                                                     and execute FM and disbursement. A challenge in early 2013 –
                                                     a proposal by Parliament to Impeach H.E. Minister Shahrani
                                                     given inadequate budget utilization was rejected when it was
                                                     demonstrated MoMP was efficiently utilizing its budget and had
                                                     exercising FM. Rather, the contribution and recording of off-
                                                     budget support was skewing the performance of MoMP.

                                                    MoMP presented the restructured organization as part of the
                                                     deliberations around placement of a Petroleum Authority in late
                                                     2012 / early 2013. The MoMP had taken on board much of the
                                                     prior capacity building in deliberating on proper placement of



                                                        58
                                                        the Authority and care to not overlap roles / responsibilities

                                                       The next test of MoMP will come from integration of the PMU
                                                        Procurement function as noted above.
Component 2: Developing Regulatory
Capacity
6. [Component 2] will develop MoMP's          From 2009-2012 three regulatory departments have been established:
regulatory capacity and put into operation           Mining and Hydrocarbons Inspectorate,
three new essential departments: (1)                 Mining and Hydrocarbons Title Registry and Cadastre,
Mining and Hydrocarbons Inspectorate,                Environmental and Social Protection
which will house a Small-Scale Mining
and Extension Services Unit, (2) Mining       Mining Inspectorate
and Hydrocarbons Title Registry and           A program of education and technical training has been provided to core
Cadastre, and (3) Environmental and           MoMP staff to operationalize the activities of each Department resulting
Social Protection, under which falls a        in significant process. None of these functions existed prior to the
Liaison Unit, linking MoMP to the             SDNRP being implemented and major progress has been achieved in
National     Environmental      Protection    establishing, building capacity and operationalizing them.
Agency (NEPA).                                Important Milestones

                                                       Inspectorate Services have been trained in the classroom, in the
                                                        field using a model mine / training institute prepared by GAF
7. A Mining Licensing Board will review                 Consultants, and on international study tours with 40+ having
the activities of the three departments                 been through a 28 day course in South Africa (2011- 2013)
with respect to the rights of investors to             Mining and Hydrocarbons Title Registry and Cadastre have
operate in the sector. The Board will                   inventoried (2010-2012) for major and medium sized
consist of three MoMP department heads                  operations, having published to the MoMP 120+ licenses.
and two external advisors. It will check
conformity      of    award,      renewal,    Mining and Hydrocarbons Title Registry and Cadastre
cancellation or termination, and surrender    Through the strong support of the SDNRP and technical skills created
of licenses, titles, and contracts with       within the Title Registry and Cadastre Department, MoMP has achieved
applicable     procedures     and    make     the following milestones:
recommendations to the Minister                        MoMP has completed two internationally competitive
accordingly. For all applications for                   hydrocarbon bid rounds, and published the results and
mining titles and hydrocarbon contracts,                Production Sharing Agreements to the MoMP website
the Board will check the financial and
                                                       MoMP completed the internationally competitive Aynak tender
technical competencies of the applicant
                                                        (2006-2009) through to negation of a mineral development
and the compliance of the proposed work
                                                        agreement for (a) mine (b) infrastructure and (c) security.
program to established guidelines.
                                                        MoMP later (2011) cleared the WB Publication Mineral
                                                        Tenders: Aynak Case Study (2012) summarizing the
8.      [Component 2] will prepare
                                                        methodology.
operational guidelines and operationalize
                                                       In 2011 and responding to media criticism, MoMP published the
a Mining and Hydrocarbons Inspectorate.
                                                        scoring sheets and supporting document around selection of the
The      Mining      and     Hydrocarbons
                                                        winning bidder for Aynak tender
Inspectorate will begin the process of
formalizing the many operating mines                   The International Advisory Panel 2012 report on third-party
                                                        monitoring of the Aynak process was published to the MoMP
currently not licensed and not paying
royalties; inspect extractive industry                  website (2012)
operations to monitor compliance with                  MoMP, responding to criticism over not publishing the Aynak
occupational health, safety, and work-                  contract, have informed the selected bidders for Hajigak iron ore
procedural regulations as well as terms of              that their contracts will be published (2012-present). MoMP
contracts where applicable; and enforce                 have since confirmed that a re-negotiated Aynak contract will
other sector-specific laws and regulations.             be published (2013)
The Inspectorate will also supervise                   MoMP (2012) with the assistance of Task Force for
compilation and publication of statistics               Stabilization Business Operations completed internationally
and information about the production and                competitive tenders for base metal exploration plays across the
sale of minerals and hydrocarbons. A                    country, and published the methodology, evaluation process and
Small-Scale Mining and Extension                        outcomes to the website
Services Unit will be established under                MoMP reports on assigning 10+ new small scale mining
the Inspectorate to provide technical                   licenses and publishing them to the website
support and guidance to small-scale                    The Inspectorate is able to supervise compilation and
miners and assist in the formalization of               publication of statistics and information about the production
the many operations currently not paying                and sale of minerals and hydrocarbons from larger operations



                                                           59
royalties.                                             but does not have access to information on small and medium
                                                       operations which is collected and held by the MED.
                                                      A small-scale Mining and Extension Services Unit has not been
                                                       put in place but inspectors are providing advice to small miners.
                                                       SDNRP2 will formalize an Extension Services Unit (2013)
                                                      As reported in the Mid-Term Review, the Production and
                                                       Royalty Audit Unit has not been established because the
                                                       production is audited by mines inspectors and royalty payments
                                                       are audited by the MoMP Audit Department.

                                              The Mid-Term review reported that a Mining Licensing Board had been
                                              not been formally established, but that an Evaluation Committee reviews
9. The Mining and Hydrocarbons Title          the license applications and recommends the contract award for small and
Registry and Cadastre will house a            medium scale mining. This Committee also reviews contract termination
Licensing Unit and a Production and           issues. External advisors are used on an ad-hoc basis when their expert
Royalty Audit Unit. The Licensing Unit        advice is needed
will process and register various
applications from investors and license       For large oil, gas and mining – the Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC)
holders; issue mineral rights in the form     established under SDNRP (2007) has proven to be an effective vehicle for
of licenses, authorizations, and contracts;   deep deliberation of licensing of major oil, gas and mining operations. In
ensure compliance therewith; and              2011 the SDNRP supported creation of a IMC Secretariat having legal
maintain a register of industry activity.     and engineering disciplines to support the IMC.
The Production and Royalty Audit Unit
will verify annual mineral and
hydrocarbon production; assess royalties      Environmental and Social Protection
based on the quantities and qualities of      An Environmental and Social Management Department (ESMD) has been
the minerals and hydrocarbons produced        established and is operational within MoMP. SDNRP has placed the
in accordance with the minerals and           greatest expenditure of effort into building capacity around these
hydrocarbons legislation; and ensure          functions within MoMP and NEPA. The following milestones have been
payment thereof to the central treasury.      achieved under SDNRP:
Given the lack of capacity and experience
with these modern cadastre and                Environmental:
inspection functions, the project will               2006 MoMP drafted the first Letter of Sector Development
deploy significant technical assistance to            Policy committing the GoA to “…ensuring operations are
these units throughout the duration of the            conducted in an environmentally and socially sustainable
project.                                              manner through the enforcement of legislation and creation of
                                                      an Environmental Protection Department, and that operators
10. [The component] will create                       conduct proper environmental impact assessments and develop
appropriate environmental and social                  and implement environmental management plans.” In 2010,
management units within MoMP, as                      SDNRP facilitated transfer of those environmental issues within
required    by     the    Minerals    and             the 2005 Minerals Law, with those that overlapped with the
Hydrocarbons Laws, and train ministry                 2007 Law on the Environment.
staff to monitor and supervise the                   The SESA (2008-2011) was rigorously reviewed and has
environmental performance of the sector.              become the precursor to the ESMF (2012-2013) and SESA-
The Environmental and Social Protection               ESIA (2013); the latter an important process in terms of
Department       will      develop     an             consultation jointly from MoMP and NEPA to other agencies of
Environmental/Social Policy Framework                 the GoA and community / civil society
for future sector development; establish             The SDNRP (2009-2010) facilitated consultants to review
and assist NEPA in enforcing sector-                  options for Environmental Standards under NEPA; which will
specific environmental guidelines and                 be included in the SESA-ESIA under preparation.
procedures;      monitor       compliance            The SDNRP (2010) facilitated preparation of the regulatory
therewith by private companies; and                   review processes for review of Environmental Social Impact
evaluate,     jointly     with     NEPA,              Assessment (ESIA), Environmental / Social Management Plan
environmental      impact     assessments,            (EMP), Feasibility Study (FS) and Mine Closure Plan. SDNRP
environmental management plans, and                   (2011) facilitated workshops between NEPA and Aynak
abandonment plans as may be required                  developer regarding the methodology and process
under the legislation. A key function of             Has been crafted around that regulatory review process.
this department is liaison with NEPA on
                                                     Has prepared training course material and provided in-country
broader oversight of environmental issues
                                                      and international study tours for capacity building at NEPA and
across sectors. Throughout the technical
                                                      MoMP building on environmental issues (2010-2013)
assistance process particular emphasis
will be given to training and the
                                              Social



                                                          60
development of internal capacity within        Through SDNRP support, MoMP has
MoMP to carry out these tasks                          Strengthened the GoA / ARAZI land acquisition process,
independently.                                          including methodology, consultation, and compensation (2010-
                                                        2013)
                                                       Completed the first Resettlement Action Plan, and Resettlement
                                                        Policy Framework (2012)
                                                       Demonstrated adoption of international practice in resettlement,
                                                        including master planning of the resettlement site and provision
                                                        of key infrastructure (2011-2013)
                                                       Has undertaken baseline household surveys (2010-2012)
                                                       Has facilitated community consultation around mine
                                                        development (2010-2013)
                                                       Has prepared training course material and provided in-country
                                                        and international study tours for capacity building on social
                                                        issues (2010-2013)
                                                       Has undertaken community monitoring using IRC as a pilot
                                                        study in the Logar Valley around Aynak
Component 3: Developing Mineral
Resources
11. [Component 3] support activities in        Afghan Geological Survey
the Sector Policy Unit and in the
Afghanistan Geological Survey, Mines           Extensive support has been provided for mapping of prospective mineral
and Hydrocarbons Department, and               regions and mineral resource assessments and a large range of in-house
Industrial Enterprises Department.             training modules have been delivered (2007-2012).

12. A MoMP Sector Policy Unit will             Some field training has taken place for geological mapping and sampling
formulate extractive industries policy and     techniques but has been greatly constrained by the need to provide costly
undertake market analysis by way of            security for field work by the international consultants. In 2010 a decision
analyzing supply and demand. It will also      was taken to use a train-the-trainer approach in which only nationals
prepare sector laws, regulations, and          would be sent to the field to lessen the robustness for kidnapping or
guidelines with input from other               violence.
departments and units.
                                               BGS and SDNRP (2006) defined an organizational restructuring

13. The Afghan Geological Survey               A 2010 field trip for AGS staff to Iran was very successful, cost effective
(AGS) will receive technical support for       alternative to field work in Afghanistan.
mapping of prospective mineral regions
and mineral resource assessments to            There has been good progress in the development of a geographic
encourage new private sector exploration       information system for internet-based distribution of information – but
investment. The component will also            public access is presently constrained by server limitations.
support the development of a geographic        An AGS Public Information Center not yet been established.
information system for internet-based
distribution of information and a public       The development within AGS of a Business Development Unit has not
information center building on work            been a priority at this stage and instead the Ministers Office has taken the
previously carried out by the British          lead with AGS providing expert support. The polices and operations of
Geological Survey (BGS) and U.S.               marketing, promotion and tendering of mineral and petroleum acreage has
Geological Survey. AFG will house a            been directed by the Minister and PMU directed to take a major role in
Business Development Unit to design            terms of appointing transaction advisors and providing advice.
short-term      resource      development      Afghanistan minerals sector has been promoted by the attendance at some
strategies and serve as the interface to the   of the leading international mining conferences such as the 2007-2010
private sector on basic information; The       PDAC conferences in Canada, Indaba 2008, Mines & Money 2008 and
Business Development Unit will promote         presentations at a number of other conferences and making promotional
investment by participating in industry        visits to major EI companies. Efforts have always been made to ensure
trade shows and conferences and                that both AGS and MoMP staff attend these conferences. The positioning
preparing promotional materials.               of the Business Development function is being assessed as part of the
                                               MoMP structural reform.

14. The AFG Department of Mines and
Hydrocarbons Development and the AFG           Sector Policy Unit
Department of Industrial Enterprises will      Dialogue between the Bank and DFID in 2010, agreed that DFID would
be assessed in terms of assets, operations,    procure Adam Smith Institute to begin reinforcing Technical Assistance




                                                            61
financial positions, future business           focusing on formulating sub-sector (commodity) policies. The following
prospects, and human resources. Based          milestones have been achieved under SDNRP:
on the initial assessment, sub-sector                  2006 MoMP published its first strategy, outlining a
strategies for the state-owned enterprises              development approach based on (a) the State as regulator and
(SOEs)       operating      under      these            (b) the private sector as developer of mineral resources
departments will be developed. The                     SDNRP provided technical experts to assist in framing the
component will support an assessment of                 National Extractive Industry Excellence Programme (2010)
the assets, operations, financial positions,            through a broad sector reform programme to achieve: (a) fully
future business prospects, and human                    developed sector policies and legislative reform to support
resources of the Department of Mines and                extractive industries growth; (b) a strong regulatory
Hydrocarbons Development and the                        environment for responsible sector management; (c) a
Department of Industrial Enterprises                    modernised and strong Ministry of Mines & Petroleum able to
Based on the initial assessment, support                deliver results; (d) an enabling business environment to attract
preparation of sub-sector strategies for                private sector investment; and (e) reliable and updated
the state-owned enterprises (SOEs)                      geological information to support sector growth.
operating under these departments                      2011 the MoMP appointed a Director of Policy, the Ministry’s
                                                        highest female appointment, to further strengthen policy
                                                        formulation and begin implementation
                                                       2012 MoMP began consultation around the preparation of sub-
                                                        sector policy (led by ASI under DFID complementary funding)
Component 4: Enhancing Sector
Governance
15. [Component 4] will devise and              International Advisory Panel
implement a number of measures to              16. The International Advisory Council (renamed International Advisory
ensure competition, transparency, and          Panel in 2010) was established in 2008, albeit with limited support prior
adherence to international best practices      to a change in leadership in MoMP in late 2009.
in respect of authorizing new investments
in the sector…. Within MoMP, the               Three qualified international experts are producing quarterly and annual
project will provide significant advisory      summaries, with publication to the website.
technical assistance, create the Mining
Licensing Board, and confer operations of      In 2009 IAP undertook a review of the procedures for awarding the Aynak
the mining cadastre to a qualified private     contract as well as the negotiated contract itself and reported to the Inter-
firm. Associated policy work will focus        Ministerial Committee and the management committee of the Afghanistan
on management of revenues and sharing          Reconstruction Trust Fund.
of benefits. In addition, the project will
help     establish    and   support     an     IAP concluded that the transaction process was in line with international
International Advisory Council and             best practice regarding methodology. The IAP was not created to render a
promote the implementation of the              fairness opinion, but did note that the contract was complete by
Extractive      Industries   Transparency      international standards.
Initiative (EITI).
                                               By 2010, and with direction under SDNRP, the IAP began to provide
                                               insight ahead of key steps within tenders, leading to improved
                                               implementation around company presentations, use of data rooms, and
                                               technical / financial pre-qualification of bidders
                                               In late 2012, and based on success of the IAP, it was agreed with the PMU
16. The International Advisory Council         to elevate the activity to a higher level by (a) concluding the current
will consist of a number of experts widely     individual contracts for IAP and (b) begin procurement of an
recognized in their respective fields for      internationally recognized accounting firm to continue the IAP role
their knowledge of the sector and              through close of the SDNRP2. As part of this activity, financial modeling
emerging trends in governance and              would be added as a key activity to better support tender processes, and
transparency in the mining and                 move the IAP beyond ex poste analysis soley of the process; and closer to
hydrocarbons sectors. The Council will         an understanding of how to assess the fairness of the deal.
review procedures for awarding licenses
and contracts for all major transactions as    Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
well as the negotiated licenses and
contracts themselves, and provide a            The government has endorsed the principles of the EITI and has been
second opinion on the conformity of each       accepted as a candidate country by EITI.
transaction with international best
practice and the “fairness” of the deal.       The EITI process has been successfully started with the submission of a
The Council will also conduct an annual        draft work program to the EITI Secretariat and the formation and first
audit of cadastre functions. The Council       meeting of an EITI Multi Stakeholder committee, with members drawn
will report to the Inter-Ministerial           from the government, extractive industries, and civil. MoF is taking the



                                                            62
Committee established by the Mining and       lead supported by MoMP and the main funding being provided by DFID.
Hydrocarbons Laws and the management
committee     of     the    Afghanistan       SDNRP has played a crucial role in funding EITI since the country was
Reconstruction Trust Fund. Members of         officially admitted as a candidate in February 2010, and covered activities
the Council will be retained by the           and areas that were important along the road to validation.
government each time a contract is to be
reviewed in accordance with applicable        Initially, support was based on individual activities to ensure that the
World Bank procurement procedures.            process could get a safe starting, such as providing operational support for
                                              the AEITI Secretariat, a number of individual capacity building efforts for
17.      The EITI supports improved           the Secretariat, the MSG and CSO in particular.
governance in extractive industries
through the full publication and              These interventions ensured that the implementing organizations could
verification of company payments and          execute its mandate, and that at least a basic playing field was established
government revenues from oil, gas, and        for the various MSG members. Of equal importance was the funding of
mining. The government, as part of            the first two EITI reconciliation reports, covering mining sector data from
negotiations for the project, has indicated   2009 to 2011, which were undertaken in 2012.
its intentions to endorse the principles of
the EITI. The project will help establish a   Due to the role that AEITI was playing in the eyes of the donor
multi-stakeholder EITI committee, which       community as an anchor project to implement various governance
will agree upon basic EITI procedures         interventions, the level of partner donor involvement grew constantly
and develop a work plan. The committee        from 2010 onwards. SDNRP from that period also took the role of a
will members draw from the government,        coordinator among funding agencies (other contributors were HARAKAT
extractive industries, and civil society.     / DFID, EITI MDTF, USAID and GIZ), in that it coordinated regular
The committee will design a reporting         meetings to allocate funding and technical support to certain topics or, as
template and engage the public in             in the MoMPent, to ensure sufficient financing is available for all
dissemination and discussion of the audit     activities that need to be undertaken to ensure successful validation. Such
findings.                                     meetings take place at least quarterly, or, as in the case of the current
                                              validation period, on an ad-hoc basis. The project will continue its support
                                              throughout the validation period, which might last until the end of this
                                              calendar year and also beyond, when the strategy would look more
                                              towards broadening the scope of EITI along the Extractive Industries
                                              Value Chain.




                                                           63
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
No economic or financial analysis was undertaken because this was an institutional
strengthening TA and there were there investments.




                                              64
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Craig B. Andrews          Consultant                        SASGP    TTL
Natalia Cherevatova       Operations Analyst                SEGOM    Operations
Graeme Eric Hancock       Consultant                        SEGOM    Technical
Masami Kojima             Lead Energy Specialist            SEGOM    Technical (oil/gas)
Gary Joseph Raymond
                          Sr Mining Spec.                   SEGOM Technical
McMahon
Sanjoy Rajan              Sr Petroleum Spec.                SEGOM    Technical
Michael C. Stanley        Lead Mining Specialist            SEGOM    TTL
Andre Ufer                Operations Officer                SEGOM    Operations/Technical
Noora Arfaa               Operations Analyst                SEGOM    Operations
Ehsanullah Shamsi         Operations Analyst                SEGOM    Operations


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                                 165.61
  FY07                                                                  -0.66
  FY08                                                                   0.00

                          Total:                                       164.95
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                 186.59
  FY08                                                                 201.57

                          Total:                                       388.16




                                            65
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not undertaken




                                      66
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Result
Not undertaken




                                        67
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Bank team made several requests for comments to the client well in advance of the due date
for this ICR, however due to a number unforeseen events, including the Minister of Mines having
stepped down from his post just weeks before the ICR was to be finalized to compete in the up-
coming presidential elections and sever security constraints that shut-down the government for a
full week in mid-November 2013, only very limited comment were received. They include the
following:

Cooperation with Other Donors (Page 8):
The World Bank has always played a very positive and important role in building and
maintaining a mutual cooperation and coordination with donors and stakeholders. Without this
cooperation and coordination it would have been impossible to reach the desired output and/or
outcome. However, it needs to be more strengthened.

Lack of coordination amongst government agencies and institutions has always been a
challenge. Ministry of Mines and Petroleum (MoMP) is not the only and stand-alone government
institution which deals with mining sector. There are other government agencies that are either
directly or indirectly involved in this sector. Their cooperation and coordination is considered
really crucial. Without the support and coordination of relevant government institutions, it will be
impossible for MoMP to achieve the desired result and attain the set objectives effectively and
efficiently.

Risk Management and Mitigation (page 22):
Non availability of proper infrastructure is considered a risk for future mining projects.

Financial Management (page 26)
A proper budget is prepared for project activities. The budget clearly describes projections on
monthly, quarterly and annual basis.

Procurement (page 26)
The procurement procedures are lengthy and time consuming and there are several steps that
PMU has to undertake. Particularly, there are committee members which are appointed by the
MoMP to open bids, review, do technical evaluation etc. Command of the English language, and
technical knowledge of the committee members are the challenges and factors that contribute to
the delays in procurement affairs. Fear of committee members from auditors and prosecutors is
another concern and factor that usually lead to delay in procurement processes. Normally, they
reluctant in signing the relevant documents unless they are on the top of everything.

IAP
The Ministry is fully committed on transparency issues. Also, it is emphasis of the Ministry to
have the firm to act as IAP instead several individuals. Procurement of a firm is already started.




                                                 68
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                         69
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
 SDNRP : In-country Consultancy Advice, Project/Reports, Other Reports and Training

Item                             Approximate Timing        Comments

A. In-country Consultancy
Advice:
GAF advice on cadastre/          2009-2012                 Notes available from GAF-AG.
inspectorate
GAF advice on Aynak              September 2011 ongoing    Notes available from GAF-AG.
compliance monitoring etc.
Current Environmental Advisor    August 2012 ongoing       Dr. David Phillips, 12-month 220-day
to the MoMP (MoMP-EA)                                      contract; 15 items in TORs; five Progress
                                                           Reports released to end-2012.
Previous Environmental           May 2011 to Feb. 2012     Mr. Robin Grayson.
Advisor to the MoMP
Initial Environmental Advisor    2009 to 2010.             Mr. Edward Wronsky (under SDNRP I).
to the MoMP
Social Advisor to the MoMP       August 2010 ongoing       Ms. Harjot Kaur.
Petroleum Engineering            Under offer currently     Being finalised by ADPA/MoMP presently.
Advisors to the ADPA/MoMP
Hydrocarbon HSE Advisors to      2012-2013                 TORs prepared by the MoMP-EA for Weis
the ADPA/MoMP                                              Sherdel of the ADPA/MoMP, Sept. 2012.
Social Advisor to the NEPA       May 2012 ongoing          Eng. Ezatullah Sediqi.
ESIA Advisor to the NEPA         Nov. 2012 ongoing         Mr. Chiranjibi Gautam.
Company Consultancy to the       Out to bid January 2013   TORs finalised; bids being requested; three
NEPA                                                       individual international experts; capacity
                                                           building focus.

B. Projects/Reports:
Screening Report, Aynak          December 2009             Reviewed by GAF and others.
Social Impact Assessment,        October 2011              Team headed by the Social Advisor to the
Aynak Resettlement                                         MoMP.
Archaeological issues, Aynak     2011, ongoing             Input to Mes Aynak archaeological work.
Advice by GAF on Aynak           2009-2012 ongoing         See the notes from GAF.
(various issues)
Review process for Aynak         September 2012            Developed by the MoMP-EA and GAF
Feasibility Study and ESIA                                 collaboratively; now agreed as a basis for the
                                                           upcoming reviews.
Mine Visitors Centre, Aynak      Ongoing                   Work underway by the PMU to develop a
                                                           Centre.
Standards-related reports        Late 2011                 Drafted by Robin Grayson; work ongoing to
                                                           finalize this.
Environmental Guidelines for     Late 2011                 MoMP Policy Unit assisted by Robin
the extractives industries                                 Grayson.
Draft Environmental and Social   Late 2011 ongoing         Drafted by the PMU; currently being
Management Framework                                       translated into Dari. Presently being
                                                           separated by the MoMP-EA into two
                                                           documents: one for the SDNRP II and the
                                                           other for the national extractives industries.


                                             70
Environmental and Social          2011 ongoing             Nine ESSSs prepared to date.
Safeguard Sheets
GIS mapping, 10,000km of          2011 ongoing             In central and eastern Afghanistan.
Karezes
GIS mapping, 1,200 brick kilns    2011                     In collaboration with CBAGS.
Carbon credit mechanism           Ongoing                  Potential relocation of brick kilns.
Input to the Minerals Law         2011 ongoing             Input by various Advisors. Passage of the
                                                           new draft is awaited, and proposed further
                                                           amendments are being discussed.
Input to the Petroleum Law        2012 ongoing             Passage of the new draft is awaited, and
                                                           proposed further amendments are being
                                                           discussed.
Detailed advice on relevant       December 2012            Drafted by the MoMP-EA.
legislation
MHS-SESIA (by SOFRECO,            October to December      Reviewed by the MoMP-EA and others;
France)                           2012                     discussed with the World Bank in December
                                                           2012. To be redrafted by a third party in
                                                           January-April 2013, followed by a strategic
                                                           workshop in June 2013.
Environmental and social          December 2012, ongoing   First version developed by the MoMP-EA; an
database for the extractives                               organic database, requiring ongoing
industry                                                   development.
Water-related advice              September to December    Considerable work completed by the MoMP-
                                  2012, ongoing            EA to identify the constraints posed by fresh
                                                           water availability to the extractives industries.
                                                           Interface to the MEW and MoFA.
Advice on specific contract       Ongoing                  To be released by the MoMP-EA in February
terms for the extractives                                  2013.
industry
Partial advice on standards for   Late 2011                Developed by Robin Grayson of SDNRP I,
the extractives industry                                   and Matt Conklin of USAID.
Detailed advice on standards      Ongoing                  To be released by the MoMP-EA and NEPA
for the extractives industry                               Advisors in March 2013.
Environmental assistance to the   01 September 2012        Drafted by the MoMP-EA
MoMP, Progress Report 1
Environmental assistance to the   01 October 2012          Drafted by the MoMP-EA
MoMP, Progress Report 2
Environmental assistance to the   01 November 2012         Drafted by the MoMP-EA
MoMP, Progress Report 3
Environmental assistance to the   01 December 2012         Drafted by the MoMP-EA
MoMP, Progress Report 4
Environmental assistance to the   01 January 2013          Drafted by the MoMP-EA
MoMP, Progress Report 5

C. Other Reports:
    Placer Gold Mining Industry- Samti Gold Mine
    River Mining Environmental Awareness
    Social and Environmental Impacts of Karez
    Social Environmental Impacts of Brick Kilns



                                              71
      Best Practice Waste Management Guidelines for Mining Operations
      Environmental, Social and Bankable Feasibility Studies that MCC Needed to Complete Before
       Mining Commences
      Draft TOR for the Environmental Department of the MoMP, According to the Mineral and
       Hydrocarbons law
      Project Activity Cycle According to Environmental Best Practice
      Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control in the Copper Sector (unofficial, for training purpose)
      Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control in the Iron/Steel Sector (unofficial, for training purpose)
      Environmental, Health and Safety Standards for Large Projects (unofficial, for training purpose)
      National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting; Final Rule
      Identified and proposed environment standards
      Pollution Discharge Standards
      Environmental, Health and Safety Standards for Large Projects
      Best available techniques (BAT)
      BAT for Iron and Steel Production
      Coal - Environmental Guidelines
      River Mining - Environmental Guidelines
      Hardrock Aggregate Mining - Environmental Guidelines
      Copper - Environmental Guidelines
      Iron - Environmental Guidelines
      Placer Gold - Environmental Guidelines
      Hardrock Gold - Environmental Guidelines
      Chromite - Environmental Guidelines
      Oil and Gas Exploration - Environmental Guidelines
      Talc - Environmental Guidelines
      Environmental Guidelines training MoMP Investment Promotion Unit staff
      Environmental Guidelines training MoMP ASM Unit staff
      Environmental Guidelines training MoMP Inspectorate staff
      Environmental Guidelines training AGS Environmental Geology Unit staff
      Environmental Guidelines collaboration and training AGS Hydrocarbons staff
      Talc - Environmental Guidelines
      Environmental Guidelines training MoMP Investment Promotion Unit staff
      Environmental Guidelines training MoMP ASM Unit staff
      Environmental Guidelines training MoMP Inspectorate staff
      Environmental Guidelines training AGS Environmental Geology Unit staff
      Environmental Guidelines collaboration and training AGS Hydrocarbons staff


D) Training:
GAF training and study tours     Various dates, 2011 and      See the notes from GAF-AG.
for the MoMP, on inspection-     2012
related issues
GAF training of the MoMP on      September to December        See the notes from GAF-AG.
mining-related issues            2012
Mining/Environment/Social        October 2012                 Delivered by various Advisors.
training, AGS and MoMP


                                               72
Environmental training of the   October 2012              25 NEPA participants; three half-day
NEPA                                                      sessions; delivered by the MoMP-EA.
Environmental training for      Being planned currently   To be delivered by the MoMP-EA when
provincial NEPA officials                                 requested by the NEPA.
Water-related training of the   Late February 2013        Currently being prepared by the MoMP-EA
MEW and MoFA                                              and others; to include trans-boundary issues
                                                          and benefit sharing aspects; interface to
                                                          IRD/USAID.
Other training initiatives:
    Training Course - placer gold mining industry
    Environmental impacts of toxic hexavalent chromium formed from chromite
    Geohydrologic summary of the Aynak copper, cobalt, and chromium Area of Interest
    Draft manual on accessing maps and environmental reports from the AGS archive
    The distribution of industrial mining
    Impacts of industrial mining
    Constraints on mining from karezes
    Climatic constraints on mining
    The impact of haul roads from mines
    The impact of potential railways
    Leveraging standards of small mines via large customers
    Noise assessment
    Mine rehabilitation
    Hazardous waste management plans
    The rehabilitation of areas of spontaneous combustion
    Estimating mine rehabilitation costs
    Major hydrological processes
    Water budgets
    Introduction to mine rehabilitation
    The measurement of basic water quality
    ESIAs and ESMPs




                                            73
                       60°E                                                                                       65°E                                                                                                               70°E                                                                               75°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                        U Z B E K I STA N                                                                                 Dushanbe                                                   hob




                                                                                                    Am
                                                                                                     uD
                                                                                                          ar y                                                                                                                                                                                  Murg
                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                       TA J I K I S TA N
                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                          Chardzhev                                                                                      To                                                               TAJ IK IS TA N
                                                                                                                                                                  To                                                     ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kulob                                                       To Shazud
                                                                                                                                                               Dushanbe                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                          ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                         Qurghonteppa
                              AFGHANISTAN                                 TUR KM E N I S TA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                              h
                                                                                                                                   ¯
                                                                                                                                   ¯
                                                                                                                              JAWZJAN                                                                    ndz
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pya
                                                                                                                                                           BALKH                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                 KUNDUZ                                                                          mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Taloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯ ¯                                              Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kondoz
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¯                                                                                             h
                                                                                                                                    Sheberghan
                                                                                                                                            ¯                     Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                                                                  Sharıf
                                                                                                                                                                      ¯                                                     TAKHAR                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                                                                       Saripul                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tirich Mir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (7690 m)
                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                        Samangan
                                                                                                                                                                              ¯                                   Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯                                                  K
                                                                                                                  Meymaneh
                                                             Mary                                                                                                        ¯
                                                                                                                                                                   SAMANGAN                                         ¯N
                                                                                                                                                                                                               BAGHLA
                                                                                                     ¯ R YA
                                                                                                    FA    ¯B
                                                                                                         YA                                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ndu
                                                                                                                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I R      d                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯o
                                                                                                                                                                                               eQ                                    J                                         Chitral
                            To
                                                                                                                                SARIP
                                                                                                                                SARIPUL
                                                                                                                                      UL                                                   y                                              n
               35°N
                        Mashad
                                                                                                            Mor
                                                                                                                  gh¯                                                            Da
                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯   ry
                                                                                                                                                                                         a-                         Bazarak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H        PAiN             ¯    ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NURISTAN
                                                                                                                    ab
                                                                                     ¯ D G H¯
                                                                                    BA      IS                                                                                                          ¸ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mahmud-e Raqı
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¯ ¯ ¯ Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KAPISA     ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        35°N
                                     P                                                                                                                                                              ¯
                                          a                    Qal‘eh-ye Now                                                                                             Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                          ¯ ¯¯                 PARWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯                                       Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯ ¯
                                               r o                                                                                                                                                                  Charıkar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¯¯ ¯   LAGHMAN KUNAR         To
                                                   p a                          e                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                        R a n g                                                                                 ¯N
                                                                                                                                                           ¯ M YA
                                                        m i s u s                                                                                                                                              ¯    KABUL        Mehtarlam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯          Mardan
                                                                                                                        Chaghcharan
                                                                                                                                 ¯                        BA                                                  KABUL
                                                      Herat
                                                         ¯
                                                                          Har¯
                                                                               ud
                                                                             ır¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PAK IS TAN
                                                                                                                                                                               WA R D A K                             ¯ Shahr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Meydan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯                       Khyber Pass
                                    ¯T                                                                                                                                                                            LOGAR                NANGARHAR
                                 HERA                                                               GHOR                                                                                                                                                                 To Peshawar
                                                                                                                            DAY KUNDI                                                                                 Pol-e ‘Alam
                                                                                                                                Nili                                                                                        PAKTIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ghaznı
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ¯              Gardız
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    us
                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                                                                                    an
                                                                                                                                                                 G H A Z N¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ind
               ISLAMIC                                                                                                                       He
                                                                                                                                                lm                        I                                                       KOWST                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kowst          Kohat 0          50              100     150 Kilometers
               REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                        Sharan
                                                                     ¯h
                                                                  Fa
                                                                    ra                                                     ¯ZGAN
                                                                                                                         URU
               OF IRAN                                                      ¯H
                                                                       FA R A                                              ¯ Kowt
                                                                                                                        Tarın
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0                  50             100 Miles
                                         ¯t
                                                                                                                                                                                          P A K T¯ ¯
                                         u
                                      ¯r
                                     Ha
                                                          Farah
                                                             ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IKA
                                                                                                                                                  ¯ BUL
                                                                                                                                                 ZA
                                                                                                                                                    Qalat
                                                                                                                                                       ¯
                                                                              h
                                                                              as
                                                                            Kh¯




                                                                                                                                               ak
                                                                                                                                              n¯
                                                                                                                                          Tar

                          Hamun-e
                           ¯ ¯
                            Saberı
                            ˛¯ ¯
                                                                                      Lashkar Gah
                                                                                               ¯           Arghandab
                                                                                                                    Kandahar
                                                                                                                          ¯

                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AFG H ANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                Zhob

                                                          Dasht-I Margo                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                 Zaranj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                               N¯  ¯Z
                                                IMRO                         HILMAND                       ¯R
                                                                                                     KANDAHA                                                                                                                                                                               RIVERS
                                                  Helm                                                                                                To
                                                       and                                                                                            Quetta                                                                                                                               MAIN ROADS
               30°N
                                              Gowd-e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RAILROADS
                                               Zereh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33358R1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30°N
OCTOBER 2011




                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                60°E                                         PA KI S TA N                                65°E
                                                                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70°E
