 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14642

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/09/2015

              Country: Afghanistan
           Project ID: P098118                                                     Appraisal              Actual
        Project Name: Sustainable                    Project Costs (US$M):                     30.0                41.5
                       Development Of                                                          10.0
                       Natural Resources
  L/C Number:          CH238; CH503                    Loan/Credit (US$M):                     30.0                41.5
                                                                                               10.0
      Sector Board:        Energy and Mining          Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                                06/20/2006
                                                                  Closing Date:           07/31/2011          05/31/2013
         Sector(s):        Central government administration (55%); Mining and other extractive (45%)
         Theme(s):         Infrastructure services for private sector development (33% - P); Regulation and competition
                           policy (17% - S); Legal institutions for a market economy (17% - S); Administrative and civil
                           service reform (17% - S); Environmental policies and institutions (16% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Dileep M. Wagle            John R. Eriksson        Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Project Development Objective (PDO) as stated in the Financing Agreement (Schedule 1) and the Project
Identification Document (PID)'s Technical Annex (Section C) was to assist the government “in improving Ministry of
Mine’s capacity to effectively regulate the mineral and hydrocarbon resource sector in a transparent manner, and to
foster private sector development in the sector”. The PDO was designed to assist the Ministry of Mines in developing
and implementing a plan for its transition from being a producer of minerals and other commodities to that of a
policy-maker and regulator. (The Technical Annex of the PID was prepared at the time of project appraisal and
served to some extent the functions of a Project Appraisal Document (PAD), which was prepared for this project).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  A: Improving Ministry of Mines’ Internal Efficiencies (at appraisal: US$1.3 million; revised to US$0.3 million at
Additional Financing; at completion: Nil (as the component was ceded to DFID, which was undertaking a separate but
related engagement in the restructuring of the Ministry). This component aimed to strengthen capacity and streamline
internal processes within the Ministry through inter alia: (a) establishing an operating information technology and
financial management system, (b) defining a strategy for developing a finance and accounts unit, (c) designing
administrative systems for internal audit functions, and (d) providing technical support to the budgetary process.

 B: Developing Regulatory Capacity (at appraisal: US$9.0 million; revised at Additional Financing to US$10.6 million;
at completion: US$9.8 million). This component included provision of technical assistance (TA) and training to
support the establishment of new departments within the Ministry, for the regulation of mining and hydrocarbons
activities, including: (a) a mining and hydrocarbons inspectorate, (b) a mining and hydrocarbons title registry and
cadaster, housing a licensing unit, and a production and royalty unit, (c) an environmental and social protection
department to provide broad oversight of cross-sectoral environmental issues, and (d) a mining licensing board to
review the activities of the above departments with respect to the rights of investors.

 C: Developing Mineral Resources (at appraisal: US$10.0 million; revised at Additional Financing to US$19.4 million;
at completion: US$17.0 million). This component supported: (a) Ministry of Mines in formulating extractive industry
policy, preparing sector laws, regulations and guidelines, through TA and training to staff; (b) the geological survey
process, through technical support for mapping prospective mineral regions, the development of a geographic,
internet-based information system, and setting up of a business development unit to develop short term
resource-development strategies and serve as an interface to the private sector; and (c) carry out an inventory of
assets of mineral-based state-owned enterprises and develop concrete recommendations for improvement of mining
and hydrocarbons regulations.

 D: Enhancing Sector Governance (at appraisal: US1.35 million; revised at Additional Financing to US$1.3 million; at
completion: US$1.2 million). This involved (a) establishing an international advisory council to review procedures for
awarding licenses and contracts for all major transactions, and conduct an annual audit of cadaster functions – all
through provision of technical advisory services. (b) supporting implementation of EITI principles through
establishment of a multi-stakeholder EITI committee to agree on procedures, develop an implementation work plan
and reporting template, and disseminate audit findings to the public.

 E: PMU and Operating Costs (at appraisal: US$8.35 million; revised at Additional Financing to US$8.4 million; at
completion: US$13.5 million).


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost: The project cost increased from US$30 million to US$40 million through the Additional Financing,
implemented in 2009. The final project cost was marginally higher, at US$41.5 million. Allocations to components A,
B and C were revised, especially for Component C, which nearly doubled its allocation, and Component A, whose
allocation was virtually eliminated on account of the fact many of the administrative improvements envisaged were
ceded to DFID, which was supporting a separate but similar restructuring of the Ministry’s internal efficiencies.
Though the allocation for the Project Management Unit and the operating budget were virtually unchanged at
Additional Financing, costs at completion had risen significantly, from US$8.35 million to US$13.5 million. To some
extent this may reflect the nearly two-year extension of the project’s closing date.

Financing: The sources of funding for this project consisted of two IDA Emergency Recovery Grants (under OP 8.50)
– initially of US$30 million, augmented by another US$10 million through Additional Financing in 2009.

Borrower contribution . No counterpart funding was provided.

Dates. The project was originally envisaged as a 5-year project with a closing date of July 31, 2011. The closing date
was however extended, first to December 31, 2012, and then to June 30, 2013, to accommodate delays in
implementation of various components.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Objectives: High. The project was highly relevant to the country’s developmental objectives at the time of appraisal,
as reflected in the country’s Interim Afghanistan National Development Strategy (I-ANDS), 2006-11, which aimed to
create an enabling regulatory environment and improved infrastructure for profitable extraction of mineral and natural
resources through domestic and foreign direct investment. It was also consistent with the Bank’s Interim Strategy
Note (ISN), presented to the Board in May 2006, supporting capacity building and accountability or the state in
provision of services, as well as the growth of a modern, formal and competitive private sector. The project’s
objectives continued to be relevant at time of closure, as reflected in the revised ISN (FY12-FY14), which
acknowledged the importance of the natural resources sector to the economy, and the need to build up internal
regulatory capacities and governance, through principles of EITI, to improve and ensure transparency (paras 75-77,
p.27).


 b. Relevance of Design:
Design: Substantial. Project design was relatively straightforward, and aimed to build up a regulatory and
governance capacity in the Ministry of Mines, develop mineral resources and attract private sector investment through
the provision of technical assistance and support for the establishment of appropriate new departments and
capacities. The various components financed by the project were mostly consistent with the project’s development
objectives, and the causal chain between planned activities and expected outcomes was fairly clear for the most part,
though the link to the promotion of the private sector (mostly through setting up of a business development unit)
seemed somewhat weak. The ICR makes the point (p.27) that though project design was sufficiently relevant at
design, by the time the of the Additional Financing it had become apparent that a more programmatic approach
needed to be taken towards development of the sector, particularly in the context of emerging large scale mining and
hydrocarbon proposals, calling for stronger regulatory capacities and broader interventions. This led to the approval
of a follow-on operation (SDNRP2) in May, 2011, even prior to the closing of the current operation. On the positive
side, with the approval of the follow-on project, there was a shift in implementation arrangements directly through the
Ministry of Mines, rather than through the PMU – a reflection of the extent to which enhancement of capacities within
the Ministry had taken place.

Taking into account these factors, overall relevance of design is rated Substantial.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Objective: To assist the government “in improving Ministry of Mine’s capacity to effectively regulate the mineral
and hydrocarbon resource sector in a transparent manner , and to foster private sector development in the sector” .

These objectives can be assessed separately, as follows:

(a) Improve MoM’s capacity to regulate the sector in a transparent manner:

Outcomes:

·        Enhancing governance of the minerals and hydrocarbons sector: This was defined in the results framework
as achieving transparency, competition and fairness of minerals and hydrocarbons agreements. The target was to
ensure effective review of contracts by the Ministry, with advice from the International Advisory Panel (IAP). This was
achieved. Under the new process adopted, the Ministry provided initial technical review of tender documents,
reportedly in a transparent and non-discretionary manner, the process being monitored by the International Advisory
Panel. Final decisions were taken by the Inter-Ministerial Committee, after reviewing the Ministry of Mines’
recommendation, with publication of the results on the MoM website. To date the Inter-Ministerial Committee had
awarded mineral rights to Aynak copper deposits and Hajigak iron deposits (2), and in a similar process supported by
the US Government’s Task Force for Business and Stability Operations, had implemented of four internationally
competitive tenders for four mineral deposits, plus issued over 10 new licenses for small scale mining and published
them to the website.

·         Effective and transparent regulation: This was defined in the results framework as strict adherence to the
disposition of the Minerals and Hydrocarbons laws and associated regulations in issuance of mining titles, licenses
and contracts. The target was to ensure the issuance of mining titles within the time frame of the Minerals Law.
Towards this end, the IAP was established under the project as part of third-party monitoring of tender processes for
Aynak and Hajigak, reporting on compliance-related issues. The regulation requiring titles to be awarded only after
successful review of the Feasibility Study and Mine Plan, and the Environmental/Social Impact Assessment appears
to have been adhered to strictly, as evidenced by the fact that no authorizations for construction have been issued for
Aynak and Hajigak as yet. In addition, MoM was pursuing improved contractual monitoring through an international
consultancy (GAF) building staff capacity around contractual and regulatory obligations on an ongoing basis. To this
extent, as suggested by the ICR, the target could be considered as having been achieved.

·         Effective and transparent regulation: Defined in the results matrix, as above. The target was to ensure that
all new hydrocarbon exploration, development and production resulted from competitive tender. This was achieved.
Two major international competitive tender rounds for hydrocarbons (resulting in award of the Amu Darya field), and
for four medium sized mineral deposits for development, took place in line with international practice in a transparent
manner.

·        Enhancing Sector Governance: Operationalizing the International Advisory Panel. The target was to
increase the percentage of reports issued on major transactions from a baseline of 60% in 2006 to 100% by close of
project. Actual achievement by 2013 was 100%; as such the target was achieved.

·         Enhancing Sector Governance: Adopting and implementing EITI. Strong progress was noted as regards
EITI, with the first two EITI reconciliation reports having been prepared and public consultations having been held on
the second. The target for this indicator was the percentage of reporting and auditing of payments paid and received,
set at 100% by end-project, against which actual achievement was 80%. In April, 2013, the EITI Board completed
assessment of its validation report and decided that Afghanistan would remain in its status as a "Candidate Country"
for another 18 months. This indicator could be considered to have been partially achieved.

The following could, for all practical purposes, be considered output, rather than outcome, achievements:

Outputs:

·          Improving Internal Efficiencies: Strengthening budget formulation capacity – so that budgets would reflect the
priorities of developing regulatory capacity and mineral resources submitted to and approved by the Ministry of
Finance. The target was to achieve 100% by end-project (from a 2006 baseline of 50%), against which actual
achievement was 67% - i.e. partially achieved.

·          Developing Regulatory Capacity: Establishing three new regulatory departments – a) the mining and
hydrocarbons inspectorate, with over 40 inspectors receiving training at large mine sites in India; b) the mining and
hydrocarbons title registry and cadastre; and c) the environmental and social protection department (renamed the
Social Protection Department). End-project targets under this indicator related to issuance of exploration licenses
(37), quarry authorizations (210), exploitation licenses (12); and hydrocarbon license rounds (2). These departments
were established. Actual achievement of licenses and authorizations issued was 9, 560, 36 and 2, respectively. The
shortfall in exploration licenses issued was on account of an anticipated change in the 2009 law. As such, the targets
were mostly achieved.

   Based on the above, efficacy for this objective is rated Substantial.

(b) Foster private sector development in the sector:

Outcomes:

·         Ability to attract new investments: The target here was to ensure two hydrocarbon licensing rounds by close
of project (2011). This was achieved. As noted above, MoM did complete two competitive hydrocarbon rounds with
the help of the Task Force for Business Stabilization & Operations.

·        Ability to attract new investments: The target was to bring two medium-sized mines under development by
2010. This was only halfway achieved. One medium-sized gold mine is currently in production. A diverse pool of
national and international investors showed their interest in participating in the sector, reflected in several tenders
issued.

Outputs:

·       Developing Mineral Resources: Strengthen Geological Knowledge: The project supported the collection of
considerable geological data and studies by the Afghan Geological Survey (AGS). The building up of AGS’s capacity
was considered critical to attracting private sector investors over the long term. The target was the completion of a
minimum of 6 studies (1 per year) by close of the project. Actual achievement was 21 studies. Hence, the target was
more than fully achieved.

·        Developing Mineral Resources: Promotional Activities: Building on a baseline of an initial international
promotional event hosted by the Ministry to showcase the country’s mineral resources to private investors, the target
was to undertake 7 events by close of project (a minimum of one event a year). Actual achievement was 16 events
conducted. Hence, the target was more than fully achieved.

    Taking into account of these factors, efficacy for this second objective is rated as Substantial.

 5. Efficiency:
  Though the Technical Annex prepared at the time of project appraisal in 2006 did not provide any estimate of net
present value or economic rate of return for the project, it did identify key elements of the economic benefits flowing
from the project. It estimated that over US$500 million could be generated in annual rents and fees, if the technical
assistance provided by the project led to the creation of a functional cadastre system registry. In addition,
strengthening the government’s ability to collect taxes and royalties from existing mining operations would generate
another US$10-20 million annually, in addition to new revenues resulting from the Aynak copper project (US$100-200
million annually by 2015), and another US$150 million annually from new gold mining projects. The Additional
Financing (AF) project paper, 2009, estimated that the project had already generated a considerable premium on the
Aynak copper deposits (US$808 million, with an initial payment of US$80.8 million) and likelihood of a premium also
for the Hajigak iron mine, plus additional on-going fiscal revenues – more than enough to justify the additional
investment being made via the AF.
Project costs at closure were marginally higher than at appraisal and additional financing (US$41.5 million vs. the
planned US$40 million). The increase in project costs financed by the AF (US$10 million equivalent) was
necessitated in part by the security situation in the country, which had impacted on the costs of the mining cadaster
and the geological survey, and also by the fact that international interest in Afghanistan’s mineral sector had turned
out to be stronger than anticipated, thereby calling for additional activities to be undertaken in the preparation of
tender for the Aynak deposit. The project took an additional 20 months to disburse the funds (which it did, more or
less fully).

No detailed economic analysis was conducted by the ICR either. However, the ICR mentions (pp. 35-36) that the
potential for the above-mentioned investments to materialize was in fact confirmed through the mining rights at Aynak,
awarded in 2008 to the China Metallurgical Group Corporation, which was working to meet an estimated investment
requirement of over US$3 billion for mines and ancillary infrastructure. Secondly, mining rights at Hajigak, awarded in
2011 to the Afghan Iron & Steel Consortium, which commenced working towards a similar US$3 billion investment for
mine and ancillary infrastructure. Taking these into account, it was projected that Aynak could contribute about
US$500 million annually in direct and indirect government revenue by 2015, and Hajigak, about US$400-500 million
by around 2020.

Based on the above, it would appear that project net benefits were likely to be positive, and at least on par with the
costs of the project (enhanced by the AF), and there would be a reasonable expectation of achieving value for money.
However, in the absence of a detailed cost-benefit analysis, it would have been good if the ICR could have presented
some evidence to demonstrate that the project was implemented on a least-cost basis (though it can be conceded
that least-cost in the Afghanistan context could well turn out to be higher than in most other conflict-affected
countries). Since it does not, Efficiency is rated as Modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project’s objectives were deemed to be highly relevant, and design to be substantially relevant. Efficacy was
found to have been substantial for both parts of the project’s development objectives. Efficiency is rated modest on
account of data shortcomings on project costs. As such, achievement of overall Outcomes is rated moderately
satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Though some of the project’s activities, e.g. the geological data compiled and progress on the Environmental &
Social Management Framework, as well as Plans, would have contributed to sustainability, significant risks to
development outcomes continue to exist on account of the country’s conditions of conflict and fragility. Many of these
risks had been identified at appraisal, some of which could not be mitigated (e.g. political, security) and some which
could.

Political: Volatility in the political situation could have an impact on policies relating to transparency and governance,
in turn affecting the attractiveness of the sector to investors. Given the large revenue potential from Afghanistan’s
mineral resources sector, the possibility of political interference, corruption and rent-seeking behavior will remain a
long-term risk. The ability of the government to strictly adhere to and monitor compliance will also be a long-term
challenge, given the weak judicial system. These risks are compounded by the security situation, which remains
fragile.

Institutional: Weak implementation capacity of the Ministry of Mines was identified at appraisal as a major risk.
Despite the best efforts of the project to provide technical assistance and strengthen governance, capacity building
within the Ministry of Mines and the National Environmental Protection Agency is likely to take a long time to become
effective, given that there are at present no other large-scale mining operations in the country to provide a learning
experience for the relevant staff.
Considering this state of affairs, the risk to development outcome is rated High.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was in line with country priorities and, taking into account the post-conflict country environment,
appears to have been designed with a view to meeting sector priorities and pressing needs. While there was no
PAD specifically prepared, a Technical Annex to the Project Information Document (PID) was prepared at the time
of appraisal, which provided details of the strategic context and components of the project. The proposed grant
under which the project was financed fell under OP8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance). Emergency Recovery
projects were normally expected to be fully implemented within two to three years; however, given the extremely
thin institutional capacity in MoM, a five-year horizon was felt to have been more appropriate.

The ICR suggests (though without providing any supporting evidence) that the project’s conceptual approach was
in line with international good practice experience for a fragile country seeking to attract international private
investment. Overall, however, the project’s components were appropriate to achieve its developmental objectives,
and were implemented more or less successfully. Project design was informed by two large studies – in mining
and in hydrocarbons - conducted by IDA prior to appraisal to assess sector potential and institutional
shortcomings. Recognizing that appropriate sector and tax laws needed to be in place before any investment
could be contemplated, IDA assisted MoM in drafting mining and upstream hydrocarbons laws (both approved by
Government in 2005), as well as special tax provisions for extractive industries. To assist the government, IDA
also prepared an energy strategy note in 2005, pulling together relevant policy issues for electricity, hydrocarbons
and coal. M&E design was adequate, and indicators were adequately linked with the PDO, though additional
indicators could usefully have been added as regards environmental and social performance.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The quality of the Bank’s supervision was somewhat weak during an initial phase up to 2009, during which
security concerns were high, following an attack that impacted the Kabul World Bank office, accompanied by
some instability in task team leadership. This appears to have been strengthened in subsequent years, until
project closure – with the inclusion of an experienced mining specialist as task manager, environmental specialists
on the team, and more diligent supervision and continuity in task management, resulting in improved overall
implementation of the project. Some 35 supervision missions were undertaken during the life of the project, 25 of
which were undertaken in the period since 2010. Only 7 Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)
appear to have been prepared during the life of the project, notwithstanding the fact that 35 aide memoires and
Back-to-Office reports were filed – indicating that management scrutiny of the project may not have been optimal.

The ICR mentions that safeguards issues, as well as fiduciary aspects (financial and procurement), were
supervised in a timely and thorough manner, notwithstanding the fact that field work to the Aynak area entailed
serious security risks. According to the ICR (p.39), the performance of the Bank team under these risks could be
considered “exemplary”. The Bank team was also thorough in coordinating with a number of other donors over a
wide range of activities.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    At the national level, Government commitment to private investment in extractive industries was high through
the period. This was based on a realization that large mining and hydrocarbons investment could not be
supported solely by public funds, and required sector reform and new mining legislation – both of which had in fact
been introduced by the time the project commenced. Government commitment to the project itself also remained
strong, though actual performance by the Ministry in approving procurements was less than impressive,
particularly during the initial years of the project.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Under the project implementation arrangements provided for in the Technical Annex at appraisal, a Program
Management Unit (PMU) – reporting to the Ministry of Mines - was set up to oversee day-to-day project
implementation. Recognizing that MoM itself lacked qualified personnel, provision was made for the Ministry to
retain the services of several individual and firm-level international consultants to provide teams of technical staff,
who would help build the institution’s capacity. As there was a need for a functioning inspectorate and cadastre,
the relevant departments were staffed with international specialists, who would implement the needed functions
during the project period, until ministry staff could be trained to take over. Implementation arrangements included
the operation of the International Advisory Council, which reported to the Inter-Ministerial Committee via the
management committee of the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund, and the EITI multi-stakeholder committee,
which reported to the Ministry of Finance.

In practice, the PMU needed continuous support throughout the life of the project. The Bank’s Implementation
Status and Results reports rated overall implementation progress as only moderately satisfactory, on account of
weaknesses identified in procurement and financial management functions, which necessitated actions to
strengthen the PMU’s capacity in these areas (including hiring of additional staff and setting up of a detailed action
plan to improve procurement handling and systems). Long delays in procurement approvals by the Minister
during the early years of the project, contributed to slow procurement and disbursement performance – though this
improved considerably in subsequent years, as evidenced by the fact that the project fully disbursed by project
closure. Discussion with the TTL indicated that the performance of the PMU might have been improved had it
been integrated into the Ministry sooner.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The results framework was consistent with the project’s objectives. The performance indicators all included
baseline values and end-of-project targets, and were reasonably easy to track. The ICR makes the point that the
design of the M&E framework would have been strengthened had some environmental and social indicators been
included, such as completion of the terms of reference for an environmental impact assessment or a Resettlement
Action Plan. The matrix classified all indicators as outcome indicators; though in practice not all of hem related to
high-level outcomes, and some could more appropriately be considered as intermediate outcome indicators (see
Section 4). It is also surprising that there was no modification of results indicators in the wake of the Additional
Financing, in 2009, which introduced some new activities.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The Mid-Term Review, conducted in 2010, found that the project was performing well against its performance
indicators, which were being adequately measured, and made no recommendation for changes in the indicators or
targets.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR makes the point that utilization was fairly limited, restricted to periodic requests from the task team for
updates of the M&E report to facilitate preparation of the ISR.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues
 a. Safeguards:
Although the project was not directly involved in mine investments, the Additional Financing created a role in
facilitating sustainable mineral sector investments, which in turn necessitated a change in the project’s Environmental
Category (from “C” to “B”). This called for (a) a Mining/Hydrocarbon Sector Environmental & Social Assessment
(SESA), and (b) inclusion in contractual agreements of provisions to follow World Bank environmental and social
policies governing mine development projects. Compliance with these safeguard policies went through rigorous
management review, under a management response to some complaints received by the Inspection Panel. On April
13, 2013, the Inspection Panel’s Eligibility Report to the WBG Board recommended that no further investigation was
needed.

It is worth mentioning that the SESA conducted under the Additional Financing for the project was thoroughly
reviewed by MoM and NEPA and found to be inadequate. After a second revision by the consultant was also
rejected, the Government undertook a new, more extensive SESA – a demonstration of its commitment to ensuring
compliance with high environmental and social standards, in keeping with global norms. As regards Involuntary
Resettlement, the Aynak mine development impacted some 62 families, who were entitled to compensation. In
September 2010, even before a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was undertaken, MoM had relocated the families
and paid them partial compensation for loss of housing and rent. In response to a request from the World Bank, MoM
prepared the first RAP in January 2012 and held consultations with project affected families and stakeholders with
respect to compensation issues. Regular meetings with communities and Civil Society Organizations were held after
disclosure of the RAP. Finally, with respect to protection of Physical Cultural Resources, a need for which had arisen
at the site of an ancient Buddhist monastic complex at Mes Aynak, a security perimeter was established at the site by
MoM, to help facilitate the company’s mining operation and to protect the site from the looting and destruction which
had happened in earlier years. This is reported to have resulted in an improvement in site security.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
The project’s financial management (FM) performance was rated either Satisfactory or Moderately Satisfactory in the
ISRs. While there was a delay in submission of a financial report, books were kept generally up to date, with quarterly
IFRs being submitted on timely basis. All audits were unqualified, with no cases of misdemeanor or fraud being
reported. The ICR notes however that in some areas, FM performance needed significant improvement, especially in
earlier years (2006-10), when budget preparation did not follow adequate procedures, internal audits were not
conducted and payments to international; consultants were often delayed.

Procurement performance did face some issues. Though there were no cases of mis-procurement, procurement
during the earlier years of the project suffered from poor capability and planning by the PMU, a lack of understanding
of World Bank procedures, and excessive micro-management by the Minister, which led to needless delays in
procurement approvals. Matters improved in late-2009, with the arrival of a new Minister, who was more prepared to
delegate approval responsibility. Procurement performance picked up more substantially when the PMU hired an
international consultant in 2011, though some weaknesses persisted in planning and contract management.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                 IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately               Moderately
                              Satisfactory             Satisfactory
          Risk to Development High                     High
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                Moderately
                               Satisfactory            Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately               Moderately
                               Satisfactory            Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                         Satisfactory
NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR provides the following key lessons:

           Project Design: The SDNRP project illustrates the advantages of keeping project design simple when
operating in a fragile post-conflict country environment, with a complex environment, limited capacity and weak
country implementation record. At the same time, environmental and social safeguards are important to improving
governance and transparency, in the effort to attract new investment.
           Team Staffing and Supervision: The constitution of the Bank team and frequency of missions is critical to
overall implementation of such projects. The inclusion of an experienced mining specialist and social and
environmental expert from the Bank, plus increased frequency of supervision missions (every 6-10 weeks) can be
crucial to enabling a project to respond effectively to meet the challenges relating to such resources as a major
mineral deposit, especially regarding environmental and social protection.
           Procurement Capacity: Building implementation capacity in procurement calls for deep capacity building
within the PMU of procurement processes, procedures and planning. There is a need for experienced international
staff to train national staff, working side-by-side in the PMU. The progress made in a first project, can enable
follow-on projects to begin a process of introducing computerized procurement management systems and migrating
procurement functions of the PMU into the Ministry.
           Inter-Ministerial Coordination: The involvement of a range of Ministries (and Ministers) on a range of
issues, such as land acquisition compensation and consultation, means that there is a need for efficient
coordination, if implementation is to proceed smoothly.
          Independent Verification: The establishment (and success) of an International Advisory Panel (IAP) to
provide high quality review of transactions demonstrates the role that independent experts and agencies can play in
verifying that transactions procedures have been properly followed and that transactions have taken place in a
transparent and non-corrupt manner.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is generally results-oriented in its presentation. It is candid and well-written overall, providing useful detail
and analytic input in support of its conclusions, especially in discussions on the environmental and social aspects of
the project. However, it should be mentioned that there are several areas where the quality of evidence could usefully
have been stronger. The discussion on relevance of objectives for instance provides inadequate evidence of
consistency of the project’s objectives with either the country’s development priorities or the Bank’s current country
assistance strategies; the Quality at Entry discussion similarly provides no evidence of consistency of the project’s
conceptual approach with international best practice; and the discussion on Efficiency provides no real analysis of
costs in relation to benefits.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
