Report No. PID7359
Project Name                     Bangladesh-Air Quality Management (@)
Project (AQMP)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       BDPE57833
Borrower                         Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Environment and Forestry
Department of Environment
Contact: Mr. A.R. Khan, Director General
E-16 Agargaon, Dhaka, Bangladesh,
Tel:     (880-2) 911-2490
Fax:     (880-2) 911-8682
Email: doe@fsbd.net
Date this PID Prepared           February 15, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           February 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             May, 1999
Project Objectives
1.      The objective of this Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is to learn
about options and develop components of urban air quality management by means
of pilot activities and institutional support, with the ultimate goal of
reducing human exposure to vehicular air pollution in a cost-effective manner.
The components are designed to promote generate consistent and reliable data,
develop institutional capacity for air quality management, test technical
options for financial, environmental and social viability, and raise
stakeholder awareness of the issues and options related to vehicular air
pollution. The activities under this LIL focus primarily on Dhaka, with some
components replicated in other cities.
Strategic Context and Sector Issues
2.      Rapid vehicular growth in the metropolitan areas of Bangladesh in recent
years has been accompanied by an associated increase in emissions of harmful
pollutants. Public exposure to air pollution in Dhaka is estimated to cause
15,000 premature deaths and several million cases of sickness every year. The
poor are particularly vulnerable to air pollution, due to above-average
physical exposure to air pollution. Reducing urban air pollution and
associated health impacts in Dhaka have been identified as development
objectives. At present, there is little knowledge about the extent of the
problem and essentially no air quality management system is place in
Bangladesh today to tackle air pollution.
3.      Air pollution is by its very nature a cross-sectoral issue, arising from
the transport, energy, industry, commercial, and domestic sectors. A more
traditional air quality
management system, based on better information, would tackle the key sources
simultaneously across all of these sectors. However, vehicles constitute the



dominant source of air pollution in Dhaka--as there are no power stations,
significant industrial sources of emissions, or nearby deserts to cause dust
pollution (as in cities like Delhi).
4.      The key strategic choice made in this project is to proceed with a LIL
focusing on the transport sector in the absence of complete knowledge of air
pollution sources from other sectors. It is argued that there is little risk
to this sectoral focus, on the basis that: (a) the economic profile of Dhaka
supports this strategic focus, and (b) the source assessment analysis
undertaken under the project will ensure that the full range of important air
pollution sources and control issues are better understood by the end of the
project. Nevertheless, two hypotheses need to be tested during the course of
this LIL, i.e., that: (a) the return on emissions pollution reduction
measures in the transport sector is greater than in other sectors; and (b) the
return on emissions reduction measures focused particularly on two kinds of
vehicles--two-stroke three-wheelers and heavy-duty diesel vehicles--is greater
than for other types of vehicles. The LIL is structured to fully address these
cross-sectoral issues.
Project Description
5.      The project consists of two main components:
a. Vehicle Emissions Reduction: Enforcement, Standards and Control This
component will support the role of DOE to revise vehicle, fuel and lubricant
standards; carry out vehicle spot-checking for emissions compliance; and
promote pilot technologies for emissions reduction in two-stroke engine and
heavy-duty diesel vehicles (e.g. lubricant upgrades; improved lubricant
delivery through either petrol station "premix" or "pumpless" lubricant
injection systems; regular maintenance; engine overhaul; and age limitations).
A simple in-use vehicle testing program will be established and launched in
cooperation with other departments to identify and control grossly polluting
vehicles. The road side tests will focus on "smoke" from diesel and two
stroke engines and carbon monoxide from gasoline vehicles.
b. Air Quality Monitoring Air quality monitoring is an integral part of
an environmental management strategy. The data collected are used in
evaluating current trends in air pollution and assessing the benefits of
control options. The current preliminary level of monitoring needs to be
systematized and strengthened with quality control and assurance so that the
data obtained can be used for developing air pollution control strategies. The
data obtained will be made available to the public, and all stakeholders will
be strongly encouraged to participate in finding solutions to controlling air
pollution. This component will be undertaken in a phased manner to help ensure
that the rate of equipment acquisition is the same as that at which the
technical capacity necessary for its operation and maintenance is created.
Laboratory facilities will be upgraded to support the program, and data
management and quality assurance programs will be adopted.
Projects Preparation and Implementation
6.      The agency responsible for preparation and implementation of this project
is Ministry of Environment and Forest/Department of Environment (MOEF/DOE).
They will establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which will work on
-2 -



improving air pollution monitoring and subsequent data analysis in close
collaboration with the Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA), the
Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC), the Bangladesh University of
Engineering and Technology (BUET), the Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission
(BAEC), the Bangladesh Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (BCSIR),
the Bangladesh Standards and Testing Institute (BSTI), NGOs and others. In
addition, a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) of key stakeholders will be
formed to facilitate project implementation and offer guidance. The DOE has
drafted a project concept and implementation plans which will be submitted to
the planning department for approvals.
Project Financing
7.      The project cost is estimated at about $5 million.    The financing plan is
approximately: IDA $4.5 million equivalent and Government of Bangladesh US$
0.5 million equivalent.
Key Performance Indicators
8.      Success of the LIL will be defined in terms of the extent to which pilot
efforts have yielded results and various components of the air quality
management system have been put in place. Indicators of success by the end of
the three-year project period are:
collection of consistent data on major air pollutants (in order to identify
future priorities for cost effective actions);
timely availability to the public of data on air quality and vehicular
emissions;
formulation of an air quality management plan;
testing of several control options and analysis of their cost-effectiveness as
well as social acceptability;
establishing enforceable vehicular emission and fuel standards, and lubricant
regulations;
improved enforcement of vehicular emission and fuel standards, and regulations
governing the quantity and quality of lubricants;
increased public awareness and involvement; and
greater institutional capacity to implement the air quality management plan in
Dhaka.
Environmental Aspects
9.      No major negative environmental impacts are expected as a result of this
project. This is an environmental project designed to reduce air pollution in
urban areas in Bangladesh. It involves primarily capacity building and no
major construction activities are anticipated. Hence, the environmental
category assignment for this project is "C".
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
- 3-



1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager:            Jitendra (Jitu) Shah
Telephone: 202 458 1598
Fax:         202 522 1664
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 5, 1999.
- 4-



