Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20753-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 (US$4.71 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
July 25, 2000
Environment Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1999)
Currency Unit = Takas (Tk.)
Tk. = US$
US$ 1 = Tk48.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       Asian Development Bank               LACI   Loan Administration Change Initiative
AO        Accounts Officer                     LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
AQMAC  Air Quality Mgt. Advisory Committee   LPG       Liquefied Petroleum Gas
AQMP    Air Quality Management Project        MOEF  Ministry of Enviromnent and Forestry
ARAI    Auto. Research Association of India    NCB    National Competitive Bidding
BPC       Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation    NCS    National Conservation Strategy
BRTA    Bangladesh Road Transport Authority   NEMAP National Env. Management Action Plan
C&AG    Comptroller and Auditor General       NGO    Nongovernmental Organizations
CAM       Continuous Air Monitoring           NO       Nitrogen Oxides
CAO       Chief Accounting Officer            OED    Operations Evaluation Department
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy         PD       Project Director
CNG       Compressed Natural Gas               PIP     Project Implementation Plan
CO        Carbon Monoxide                     PM25    Particulate Matter less than 2.5 microns
DDA       Deputy Director of Account           PM,,   Particulate Matter less than 10 microns
DOE       Department of Environment           PMR    Project Management Report
DUTP    Dhaka Urban Transport Project          PMU    Project Monitoring Unit
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment      QCBS   Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
ESMAP   Energy Sector Mgt. Asst. Program       SBD      Standard Bidding Documents
ESW       Economic and Sector Work             SEMP   Sustainable Env. Management Program
GDP       Gross Domestic Product               S02      Sulfar Dioxide
GOB       Government of Bangladesh             SOE      Statement of Expenditure
HC        Hydrocarbon                          SRFP   Standard Request For Proposals
ICB       Intemational Competitive Bidding     TOR    Terns of Reference
ICR       Implementation Completion Report     WHO    World Health Organization
IDA       International Development Association
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Frederick Temple
Sector Manager/Director:    Richard 0. Ackermann
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jitendra J. Shah



BANGLADESH
AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      6
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                              10
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                          11
3. Technical                                                                           11
4. Institutional                                                                       12
5. Environmental                                                                      12
6. Social                                                                              13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     15
2. Critical risks                                                                      15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      15
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            16
2. Other                                                                               16



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         17
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            20
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        28
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          29
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   30
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      31
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    41
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  42
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 43
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           45



BANGLADESH
Air Quality Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASEN
Date: July 25, 2000                                Team Leader: Jitendra J. Shah
Country Manager/Director: Frederick Temple        Sector Manager/Director: Richard 0. Ackerrnann
Project ID: P057833                                Sector(s): US - Urban Environment
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[X Loan         1 Credit        O Grant         DI Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 3.6 (US$4.71 Million Equivalent)
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                    Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Toual
GOVERNMENT                                                      1.22            0.00          1.22
IDA                                                             2.78            1.93          4.71
Total:                                                          4.00            1.93          5.93
Borrower: GOVT. OF BANGLADESH
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT & FORESTS
Department of Environrnent, Ministry of Environment and Forestry
Address: E-16 Agargaon, Dhaka, Bangladesh,
Contact Person: Contact: Director General
Tel: (880-2) 911-2490                Fax: (880-2) 911-8682               Email: doe@fsbd.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY.US$M):
FY           2001        2002            10      204_
Annual      1.5          1.5          1.0         0.7
Cumulative     1.5          3.0          4.0         4.7
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD F-m R,W Mat,, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Rapid vehicular growth in the metropolitan areas of Bangladesh in recent years has been
accompanied by an associated increase in emissions of harmful pollutants. The exposure of the
public to air pollution in Dhaka is estimated to cause 15,000 premature deaths and several million
cases of sickness every year. The poor are particularly vulnerable to air pollution, due to
above-average physical exposure to air pollution; furthermore, impoverished children suffer from
additional effects of air pollution due to malnutrition.
At present, there is little knowledge about the extent of the problem and essentially no air quality
management system in place in Bangladesh today to tackle air pollution. The primary objective of
this Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is to learn about options and to develop components of
urban air quality management by means of pilot activities and institutional support, with the
ultimate goal of reducing human exposure to vehicular air pollution in a cost-effective manner.
The activities under this LIL focus primarily on Dhaka, with some components replicated in other
cities.
This LIL consists of two principal components: the first dealing with vehicle emissions reduction
through standards-setting, enforcement and pilot programs for cleaner technologies; and the
second dealing with air quality monitoring and evaluation. These components are designed to
promote learning, develop institutional capacity for air quality management, test technical options
for financial, environmental and social viability, and raise stakeholder awareness of the issues and
options related to vehicular air pollution.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The primary focus of this LIL will be on increasing the knowledge base regarding air quality
management, as well as cost-effective control technology and policy options. By the end of the
four-year project period, achievements will include:
a )    collection of rigorous data on major air pollutants;
b)    timely availability to the public of data on air quality and vehicular emissions;
c )    formulation of an air quality management plan;
d)    testing of several control options and analysis of their cost-effectiveness as well as social
acceptability;
e )    establishing more comprehensive or stringent vehicular emission and fuel standards, and
lubricant regulations;
f )    improved enforcement of vehicular emission and fuel standards, and regulations goveming
the quantity and quality of lubricants;
g )    increased public awareness and involvement, particularly among stakeholders; and
h)    greater institutional capacity to implement the air quality management plan in Dhaka.
Success will be defined in terms of the extent to which knowledge has been gained and whether
various components of the air quality management system have been put in place.
- 2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17453-BD       Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/31/98
Progress Report: 07/20/99
The 1998 Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh identified the reduction of urban air
pollution and associated health impacts as a development objective (Annex 1, pg. 11). The CAS
also referred to the degraded level of urban air quality due to transport-related pollution with a
strategy to address various vehicle and fuel related options (Annex 1, pg. 5). In addition to these
objectives, this project also supports the overall strategic priority of promoting better public
sector management, particularly in a sector where the public sector role in addressing market
externalities is well established.
The Bangladesh CAS also highlights the importance of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in
Bangladesh and states as another development objective the strengthening and capacity-building
of NGOs through collaboration and partnerships. The proposed AQMP project envisions a major
role for NGOs in the area of public education and general awareness-raising. This includes not
only consultation during various phases of the project for input and feedback but, also,
collaboration with NGOs in implementing some components of the project. Air quality
improvement in Dhaka can be achieved only with the help of all sections of civil society, and
NGOs will play an important part. General awareness-raising will also contribute to the objective
outlined in the CAS of raising social capital and encouraging participatory approaches.
The Air Quality Management Project (AQMP) will supplement the Dhaka Urban Transport
Project (DUTP) with its environmental objective of reducing air pollution in Dhaka. It will also
encourage the Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA), the Department of Environment
(DOE), and others to work together in dealing with vehicular pollution in urban areas of
Bangladesh. The project will be coordinated closely with the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
funded vehicle inspection and maintenance programs, currently being set up in Dhaka and several
other cities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Air pollution impedes sustainable development in Bangladesh. Air pollution levels in Dhaka, for
which data are available, are considerably higher than Bangladeshi standards or World Health
Organization (WHO) guidelines for residential areas. Extensive research elsewhere has shown a
statistically significant association between particulate pollution, especially the smaller-sized
fractions that constitute most of vehicular particulate emissions, and premature mortality and
morbidity. Specifically, greater exposure to particulates has been linked to premature deaths from
respiratory and cardio-vascular illnesses, and higher rates of sickness, especially bronchitis and
other chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, as well as respiratory tract infections. It is
estimated that if particulate pollution levels in the four largest cities in Bangladesh were reduced
to the standards in force in developed countries, as many as 15,000 deaths, 6.5 million cases of
sickness requiring medical treatment, and 850 million minor illnesses could be avoided annually.
The economic cost of this avoided sickness and death is estimated to be US $200-800 million per
- 3 -



year, or 0.7%-3.0% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Other physical impacts of air pollution
include damages to crops and ecosystems, degraded visibility, soiling of buildings, and damage to
water quality through deposition of lead and other pollutants. These effects on the ecosystem
impair people's livelihood as well as health.
Vehicles constitute the dominant source of air pollution in Dhaka. Unlike in Delhi, for example, in
Dhaka there are no power stations, significant industrial sources of emissions, or nearby deserts to
cause dust pollution. Two categories of vehicles making significant contributions to overall fine
particulate emissions are two-stroke engine three-wheelers and heavy-duty diesel vehicles. As
vehicle ownership and use are growing rapidly, the need to initiate pollution control activities is
urgent. A large number of pedestrians, drivers, passengers, traffic policemen, street vendors and
other groups undoubtedly suffer from significant health damage as a result of exposure to
emissions from a large variety of motorized vehicles including three-wheelers (some local
four-stroke Mishuks but mostly imported two-stroke autorickshaws or "baby taxis"), trucks,
buses, cars and two-wheelers. The serious nature of the problem calls for immediate action to
determine the magnitude of the pollution and its impact on public health, as well as to examine the
cost-effectiveness and sustainability of various policy and technical options. A pollution control
implementation plan based on appropriate air quality standards, accurate air quality data, and
effective enforcement policies needs to be adopted.
Government capacity to undertake such activities is limited. Critical data, such as long-tern,
quality-controlled air quality monitoring for basic pollutants (e.g., particulate matter, lead, carbon
monoxide, ozone, sulfur dioxide, and oxides of nitrogen), an inventory of emission sources,
appropriate dispersion modeling, and exposure information are not sufficient. Basic vehicle
emission standards have been proposed but not enforced, and the proper testing of vehicle
emissions has not been initiated. Technical and policy options and a strategic framework for air
quality management have not been adequately developed. Under these circumstances, a Leaming
and Innovation Loan (LIL) offers a unique opportunity to strengthen institutional capacity, test
technological altematives, and create stakeholder awareness of the sources and impacts of, as well
as solutions and solutions to, air pollution before proceeding with a full investment program.
Government Sectoral Strategy
The National Environmental Management Action Plan (NEMAP) began in 1992, and was
published with Cabinet endorsement in 1996. It is the first national document to assess the full
range of environmental problems in Bangladesh, and its assessment was based on wide public
consultation. Some 270 recommendations emerged from the NEMAP. Air pollution in localized
urban areas and along major roads, poor vehicle maintenance, and poor enforcement mechanisms
were identified as major causes of concem in Bangladesh.
Between September 1996 and June 1997, as part of Economic and Sector Work (ESW) for
setting environmental priorities, the World Bank engaged sixteen line agencies in a systematic
participatory process to better identify and rank priority environmental actions. Participating
Ministries included: Agriculture, Disaster Management and Relief, Education, Energy and Mineral
Resources, Environment and Forest, Finance, Fisheries and Livestock, Health, Industry,
-4 -



Information, Land, Local Government and Rural Development, Planning Commission, Shipping,
Transport and Communications, and Water Resources. This was done using both an
environmental economic cost-benefit analytical framework and an environmental expenditure
review of all government investment projects in the capital budget. The result of this process was
a much more clearly prioritized action plan for addressing environmental issues, and was issued by
the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB) as the NEMAP Implementation
Framework, which is being used to coordinate the environmental activities of other donors and to
track progress in implementing NEMAP.
Following the NEMAP exercise, a number of follow-up activities in the field of natural resource
management have been undertaken by DOE. Important among them are the Sustainable
Enviromnent Management Programme (SEMP), the Bangladesh Environment Management
Program (BEMP), and the National Conservation Strategy (NCS). In the field of rules and
regulations, the Environmental Conservation Act of 1995 was enacted followed by the
Environmental Conservation Rules in 1997, although enforcement mechanisms still remain weak.
In terms of the specific institutional roles and mandates, the government has agreed on some
broad principles, including: (a) the importance of the private sector and NGOs should be
recognized; and (b) public sector involvement should be strengthened only in those areas that
cannot be adequately covered by the private sector and NGOs. For the public sector, given that
environmental issues are inter-sectoral, GOB has adopted the following assignment of roles:
a )   Policy Formulation: Ministry of the Environment and Forestry/Department of
Environment (MOEFIDOE). DOE is the implementing environmental agency within the Ministry.
[Note: All references to MOEF/DOE in this project document concern only the environmental
responsibilities of the Ministry, not the forestry-related responsibilities of the Ministry and the
Department of Forestry.]
b )   Integration of Environmental Policy in Overall Development Policy: the Planning
Commission, the National Environmental Council (chaired by the Prime Minister), and the
Executive Committee of the National Environmental Council (chaired by the Minister, MOEF,
and comprising the Secretaries of key ministries).
c )   Advocacy: DOE, NGOs, and the media.
d)    Monitoring and Enforcement (including air pollution control!: DOE through the
implementation of cost-effective environmental impact assessment (EIA) and other
policy/regulatory mechanisms.
A number of projects and programs are underway to implement the views and concerns expressed
by the people during the NEMAP participatory planning process. Through the SEMP, around 18
sectoral ministries and agencies are involved in mainstreamning the environment in sectoral
policies, plans and projects. GOB has introduced lead-free gasoline throughout Bangladesh,
starting July 1, 1999. In order to curb Dhaka city's pollution, import of two-stroke engine
three-wheelers (baby-taxis) has been discouraged by the imposition of a supplementary import
duty of 200%. Efforts are underway to reduce pollution from baby-taxis by encouraging their
replacement with four-stroke three-wheelers, and by testing the feasibility of their conversion to
cleaner fuels, such as Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG),
under BEMP. Moreover, to phase-out polluting baby-taxis, new double-decker buses have been
-5-



introduced under a Dhaka Transport Master Plan.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
Air pollution is by its very nature a cross-sectoral issue, arising from the transport, energy,
industry, comnmercial, and domestic sectors. A more traditional air quality management system,
based on better information, would tackle the key sources simultaneously across all of these
sectors. In the case of Dhaka, vehicles constitute the dominant source of air pollution in Dhaka as
stated above, since there are no power stations, significant industrial sources of emissions, or
nearby deserts to cause dust pollution; however, this assertion needs clear validation. Specifically,
two hypotheses need to be tested during the course of this LIL, i.e., that: (a) the return on
emissions pollution reduction measures in the transport sector is greater than in other sectors; and
(b) the return on emissions reduction measures focused particularly on two kinds of vehicles -
two-stroke three wheelers and heavy diesel vehicles - is greater than for other types of vehicles.
The LIL is structured to fully address these cross-sectoral issues.
The sectoral issues addressed by the LIL include: environmental policies to address transport
sector externalities, specifically as they affect vehicle owners; petroleum sector standards, pricing,
and marketing; and trade policies concerning the tariff and non-tariff regimes concerning vehicles
and petroleum products. In addition, these issues pose inter-governmental coordination issues
across the Department of Environment, the Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA), the
Ministry of Petroleurn, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Home Affairs, and the Dhaka City
Corporation.
The key strategic choice made in this project is to proceed with a LIL focusing on the transport
sector in the absence of complete knowledge of air pollution sources from other sectors -
including, for example, the importance of resuspended road dust. It is strongly recommended that
there is little risk to this sectoral focus, on the basis that: (a) the economic profile of Dhaka
supports this strategic focus, and (b) the source assessment analysis undertaken under the project
will ensure that the full range of important air pollution sources and control issues are better
understood by the end of the project.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
L Economic    1 Technical    RI Social        N Participation
O Financial    1 Institutional  1 Environmental O Other
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project is structured as an IDA-financed Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), given that air
pollution management is a relatively new effort in Bangladesh and much learning is needed.
Various pilot investment and learning (assessment) activities will be pursued to better develop
cost-effective policies for dealing with this difficult and multi-sector issue. At the completion of
this LIL, it is expected that GOB would have the capacity to develop a more comprehensive air
pollution control and monitoring program, including expansion to other urban centers in
- 6 -



Bangladesh and broadening the strategic focus from the transport sector to other sectors and
activities such as refuse burning, brick kilns, and industry. Consideration of emission sources
other than transport is considered premature at present given the lack of adequate air quality
monitoring and source assessments.
The project consists of two main components:
a. Vehicle Emissions Reduction: Enforcement. Standards and Control ($2.5 million)
By statute, DOE/MOEF has the legal authority and responsibility for air quality management
while BRTA has the legal authority for controlling vehicular emissions. Donor support to BRTA
for its program of annual vehicle inspection certification is evident through both the IDA-funded
Dhaka Urban Transport Project and ADB-funded inspection stations. This LIL would support the
role of DOE to revise vehicle, fuel, and lubricant standards, do vehicle spot-checking for
emissions compliance, and to promote pilot technologies for emissions reduction.
The enforcement of current standards, a crucial part of regulation, is weak. DOE has started a
vehicular emissions enforcement program in cooperation with BRTA, police, and civil society.
Due to the lack of manpower, equipment and adequate inter-institutional coordination, however,
enforcement is done only infrequently. Even then, most emissions test data are not being
collected, compiled systematically or analyzed. Most of the three-wheelers and diesel vehicles fail
emissions checks and are fined. DOE and BRTA need to understand why most vehicles (including
new ones) fail the emission tests. These problems must be addressed before DOE and BRTA can
together become effective in controlling vehicular emissions.
This project will support a simple in-use vehicle testing program to be operated by DOE in
cooperation with other departments to identify and control grossly polluting vehicles. The road
side test will focus on "smoke" from diesel and two-stroke engines as well as carbon monoxide
(CO) from gasoline vehicles. The program will be closely tied to both DOE's standard-setting
process and BRTA's annual vehicle registration, inspection and maintenance program. To reduce
chances of corruption, the BRTA program is setting up high-volume, test only inspection centers,
widely considered most suitable for effective enforcement of vehicular emission standards-which
are designed to minimize data tampering. The on-road tests to be developed under this LIL will
focus initially on in-use vehicle emissions checking of smoke opacity for diesel and two-stroke
engine vehicles, and CO for all gasoline vehicles (with possible inclusion of hydrocarbons later).
DOE announced emissions standards effective June 1995 under schedules 6 and 7 of the
Bangladesh Environmental Conservation Act; however, these standards are inappropriate as they
apply to all classes of vehicles, and need to be updated. There is a need to establish emission
standards for (a) in-use vehicles by type, to be phased into the inspection program, and (b) new or
used vehicles being imported into Bangladesh. There is also a need to revise fuel specifications
and establish regulations for the lubricating oil used in two-stroke vehicles. The Bangladesh
Petroleum Corporation (BPC) is the primary agency dealing with the quality of transportation
fuels sold in Bangladesh. Bangladesh has eliminated lead in gasoline starting July 1, 1999, thereby
improving fuel quality. At present, GOB's downstream petroleum sector policy, particularly with
- 7 -



respect to product pricing, is hampering the introduction of cleaner fuels. This project will help
facilitate the transition to unleaded gasoline and cleaner diesel.
A series of pilot technology trials will be supported to test the cost-effectiveness and social
acceptance of cleaner technology options for two-stroke three-wheelers, and heavy diesel vehicles
(see Annex 2). Finally, a project component will finance an environmental education program to
raise awareness, change behavior, and educate the public, particularly vehicle owners and drivers,
about the seriousness of air pollution and its impact, their roles in reducing air pollution including
importance of maintenance, and the pilot technologies being tested to reduce the problem.
b. Air Ouality Monitoring ($3.4 million)
Air quality monitoring is an integral part of an environmental management strategy. The data
collected are used in evaluating current trends in air pollution and assessing the benefits of control
options. The number of sites and types of pollutants to be monitored depends on the sources of
pollution in a given area. DOE has initiated air monitoring in Dhaka using high-volume samplers.
Due to lack of staff, electric power, and fixed stations, DOE currently conducts air monitoring for
eight hours near traffic corridors at locations where power is available. This prelirninary level of
monitoring needs to be systematized and strengthened with quality control and assurance so that
the data obtained can be used for developing air pollution control strategies.
The first phase of this component will establish a city-wide monitoring system in Dhaka consisting
of one central station and a few (two to five) smaller sites. This would include equipment
purchase, technical and professional training, laboratory upgrade and management, data analysis
and modeling, policy and strategy development, and quality assurance. Pollutants to be monitored
at the central station in Dhaka include: particulate matter less than 10 and 2.5 microns in size
(PM1O/PM2.5), CO, NOx, sulfur dioxide (SO2), ozone, hydrocarbons, and lead. Monitoring at the
other smaller sites in Dhaka would be limited initially to PMO/PM2.5.
The data obtained will be made available to the public, and all stakeholders will be strongly
encouraged to participate in finding solutions to controlling air pollution. This component will be
undertaken in three phases to help ensure that the rate of equipment acquisition is the same as that
at which the technical capacity necessary for its operation and maintenance is created. Laboratory
facilities will be upgraded to support the program, and data management and quality assurance
programs will be adopted.
Lastly, the following four activities will be carried out under this LIL:
a )    Development of an emissions inventory, dispersion model, and source apportionment;
b)    An examination of factors in the downstream petroleum sector that affect fuel quality-
fuel pricing policy, supply and demand, and refinery economics-and identification of the least
cost strategy for cleaner fuels and lubricants;
c )    Health impacts of air pollution; and
d)    Social, economic and environmental assessment of the impact of policy and technical
options recommended in the project.
-8 -



This LIL will encourage the participation of universities, government institutions and private
research organizations in these studies as well as in the overall project oversight (see paragraph
C.4, below). To this end, bilateral grants will be sought to support small research studies to
address technical control, data assessment (such as establishing a geographical infornation
system), and policy options.
Indicave               Baiko
Component                   Sector         Costs      % of    financhn     Bank-
(U$S$M)    ToW t      USJ$M)  fineciwg
1. Vehicle emissions reduction                          2.50       42.4       2.10       44.7
2. Air quality monitoring                                3.40       57.6      2.60       55.3
Total Project Costs                     5.90      100.0       4.70     100.0
Total Financing Required                      5.90      100.0      4.70      100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
These include:
a.     Policy analysis to design optimal air pollution control programs for Bangladesh, ranging
across fuel pricing, vehicle registration regulation and pricing, import policies, and emissions
control enforcement mechanisms.
b.     Collecting data on air quality in a scientifically rigorous and sound manner, integrating
expertise drawn from outside government, such as academia and NGOs.
c.     Policy reforms concerning the handling of environmental data, in order to make air quality
data and information widely available to the public.
d.    Developing standards and regulations for vehicle emissions, fuels, and lubricants.
e.     Facilitating the involvement of, and cooperation among, governmental institutions,
researchers and NGOs.
Overall, through the open participation of civil society and other internal reforms, the key
institutional objective is to make the DOE more accountable for the impact of its air pollution
control programs. In this regard, the LIL will contribute to learning about the proper role of the
public sector, private sector, and civil society in air quality management.
-9-



3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The project will lay the groundwork for an air quality management program and help to create
regulatory capacity, identify cost-effective control options, and stimulate stakeholder awareness.
With a well designed and implemented air quality management system, the exposure of the public
to air pollution in Dhaka-estimated to cause 15,000 premature deaths and several million cases
of sickness every year-will be reduced, resulting in health benefits from lives saved and
sicknesses avoided.
Geographically, the project will focus on Dhaka where ambient concentrations of certain
pollutants such as particulates are several times higher than the Bangladeshi standards, World
Bank guidelines, and standards in force in developed countries. If the proposed scheme is
successful in Dhaka, it could be replicated in other cities. The target population for the first phase
are the nine million residents of Dhaka, especially children and malnourished people, who may be
most susceptible to air pollution.
4.    Financial Management
DOE is a Department under the Ministry of Environment and Forestry (MOEF). DOE has its
head office in Dhaka and offices in all the divisions of Bangladesh. The financial management
function of DOE is mostly limited to disbursement of pay and allowances and making other
departmental expenditures. All expenditure of DOE is pre-audited by CAO of MOEF. An
assessment of DOE's capacity to meet the Bank's requirement as per OP/BP 10.02 indicates that
the financial management system is inadequate for reliable and timely preparation of the full set of
project Financial Management Reports (PMRs) that will be required under the project. In the
interim, PMU will submit reports on Sources and Usage of project fund for each quarter and year
to date and Procurement Monitoring Reports ( i.e. the mandatory minimum PMRs). IDA will
review these reports to see that the capacity of the PMU have been developed to generate full
PMRs. Once this is completed, IDA will advise GOB of the acceptability of PMRs for switching
over to PMR based disbursement. This will be done by June 30,2001. The formats of the PMRs
are included in the PIP and will be agreed with IDA during negotiation. Agreement will be
reached with the borrower during negotiations that by October 31, 2000, one Deputy Director of
Accounts, one Accounts Officer and a Cashier will be appointed for the project by MOEF/DOE.
The Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG), through the Directorate of Audit-Foreign Aided
Project (DOAFAP), carries out audits of foreign aided projects. The project financial statements,
Special Account and SOEs will be audited as per auditing standards used by the C&AG. The
audit reports will be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
A draft TOR for such audits has already been prepared and included in the PIP. This will be
discussed and agreed with IDA during negotiations.
In addition to above, C&AG will also do an operational audit and may require the assistance of an
external firmn. IDA shall review the terms of reference and selection method of audit finns two
months before the audit is due. The costs for engaging external audit firms will be eligible for
financing under the consultants category of the project. The operational audits will undertake a
thorough inventory and physical verification of assets procured under the project. Two such
- 10 -



audits will be carried out, one prior to the mid-term review and the other one will be at the end of
the project closing. Final agreement on this will be reached during project negotiations.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.1
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Because of the nature of this LIL, traditional economic analysis will not be performed. During the
course of the project, however, careful cost-effectiveness analysis of policy and technical options
for reducing vehicular air emissions will be carried out.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= -% (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Because of the nature of this LIL, traditional financial analysis is not applicable.
3. Financial Management:
Financial Management Risks. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment is under
preparation and will be completed by December 31, 2000. To ensure financial discipline at all
levels, a strong financial management system will be established by December 31, 2000, and the
Bank's procurement Guidelines will be strictly followed. Further, comprehensive SOE review will
be conducted during project supervision which would help to mitigate the risk.
Flow of Funds and Banking Arrangements. For the purpose of utilization of IDA's share of
project funds, a Special Account in convertible Taka may be opened in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. About four months estimated expenditure will be
deposited to the account.
Financial Management Capacity. DOE's current capacity is inadequate to operate a modem
project financial management system. Adequate qualified staff will be in place and that will
enhance the capacity for proper financial management of the project by October 31, 2000. A
project Financial Management Manual will be prepared by DOE by December 31, 2000, and the
financial management staff will be provided with adequate training by December 31, 2000.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or Not Applicable']
The highest quality, appropriate imported equipment for air pollution monitoring will be selected
- 11 -



for this project taking into account cost, reliability, local operation and maintenance resources,
and capacity. Design, technical specifications, and procurement documents are being prepared
under the guidance of experienced intemational consultants working in close coordination with
local consultants. Bid packages will be suitably sized and pre-qualification criteria prescribed so as
to be of interest to well-qualified vendors.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
DOE will be the implementing agency for this project and BRTA will have significant
involvement. These key agencies do not currently have adequate technical capacity for effective
air pollution monitoring and management. The purpose of this project is to improve this capacity.
Appropriate technical assistance and flexibility has been built into the project design for this
purpose.
4.2 Project management:
The primary responsibility for project coordination, management, and supervision will lie with
DOE. They will set up a Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate various activities,
including enforcement, monitoring, laboratory upgrade and management, data analysis, and policy
guidance. BRTA and other key players - NGOs and the private sector involved with various
aspects of vehicular air pollution management - will participate through the proposed Air Quality
Management Advisory Committee (AQMAC) which will provide guidance to DOE in all phases
of this project. Efforts will be made to strengthen project management capability at DOE and
BRTA.
The PMU will be headed by the Project Director, and will be staffed with current and new
technical staff with the necessary skills and expertise, as detailed in the PIP. DOE will agree to
appoint the Project Director and Deputy Director (Accounts) in consultation with the World
Bank.
4.3 Procurement issues:
This is the first World Bank funded project to be executed by DOE. Currently, DOE does not
have adequate and qualified staff for following Bank procurement procedures. The PMU will hire
and train staff to ensure compliance with Bank procurement guidelines. The PMU will be guided
by the recommendations of the Air Quality Management Project Steering Committee (AQMPSC).
This is further described in Annex 6 on procurement and disbursement arrangements.
4.4 Financial management issues:
DOE does not have adequate financial management capability for LACI implementation. It has
been agreed that the Deputy Director (Accounts), with adequate knowledge in financial
management, will be placed to manage the financial management activities. This is further
described in Annex 6 on procurement and disbursement arrangements.
5. Environmental:               Enviromnental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
- 12 -



No major negative environmental impacts are expected as a result of this project. This is an
environmental project designed to reduce air pollution in urban areas in Bangladesh. It involves
primarily capacity building and no major construction activities are anticipated. Hence, the
environmental category assignment for this project is "C".
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
6. Social:
6.1 Sunmnarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
This project entails primarily capacity building and will not involve any resettlement or relocation.
All key stakeholders involved in various aspects of air pollution management were consulted
extensively during project preparation.
The ultimate goal of this project is to reduce exposure and associated health impacts from air
pollution, especially for the most vulnerable groups such as rickshaw-pullers, three-wheeler
drivers, slum dwellers, children, elderly, pedestrians, street vendors and traffic police who spend
much time in polluted micro-environments. A socio-economic assessment of technical and policy
options will be carried out, particularly in respect tp impact on the poor - for example, the
potential for public transport price hikes attributable to emissions reduction from buses - and
results will be incorporated in DOE's policy decisions.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary beneficiaries of this project will be the inhabitants of Dhaka, especially those most
exposed to vehicular air pollution such as rickshaw pullers, three-wheeler drivers, pedestrians,
commuters and street vendors and those most vulnerable, such as poor and malnourished children.
The NEMAP exercise in Bangladesh prioritized environmental issues facing Bangladesh and
identified transport-related air pollution as a key concern. Preparation for this project started in
late 1997 under the then-active National Environment Project where extensive consultations with
and workshops attended by stakeholders and government agencies took place. In addition, a
vehicular air pollution workshop was conducted on 26-28 April, 1998, to discuss with key
stakeholders the issues to be addressed, and to solicit opinions from a wide range of participants,
including government agencies, academics, NGOs, media and other local and international
- 13-



experts.
The project will have regular consultation with key stakeholders through the proposed AQMAC
that will draw upon the knowledge, skills and opinions of different segments of Bangladeshi
society and govenment.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Other stakeholders include importers and assemblers of three-wheelers who have been significantly affected
by the recent doubling of import duties on all three-wheelers (regardless of pollution potential) and have
closed their plants. In addition, a number of other stakeholders would be affected directly or indirectly by
the proposed project in terms of the various options chosen or recommended. For projects expected to
receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000, this section may be left
blank.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 I Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
~~~ ~~~             o1c                                         Aplcailt
1 Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01. GP 4.01)            El Yes 1 No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    El Yes 1 No
L Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      O Yes N No
E Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        El Yes Z No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   EJ Yes Z No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    El Yes Z No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              El Yes ER No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              EO Yes Z No
El Projects in Intemational Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50 U1  Yes Z No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          LI Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
- 14 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Standards developed will be enforced    S         Public disclosure of data will put pressure on
and new methods of adulteration of fuels             governmental institutions to enforce laws
and lube oil will not be significant
2. Growth in new polluting vehicles will   N         Enactment of laws for new or rebuilt vehicles
not overshadow pollution reduction                   which will discourage import of polluting
through enforcement and                              automobiles
new-technologies for in-use vehicles
3. The research community in Dhaka will    N         Establish consultative committee of concerned
make productive use of publicly                      institutions and hold regular meetings
accessible air quality data
4. Maintain acceptable standards of         S        Public awareness and involvement of project
financial accounting and minimizing                  management and financial accounting
corruption                                           professional
From Components to Outputs
1.    Sufficient political commitment      M         Ownership through public awareness of air
and adequate functioning of the legislative          pollution and health impacts and institution
system to allow the adoption of emissions,           strengthening; conditions of Negotiation
fuel and lubricating oil standards
2.    Drivers of two-stroke and diesel     M         Implement large parts of the LIL through the
engine vehicles participate in pilot adopt           drivers and owners association which will show
cleaner technologies                                 that they are the biggest beneficiaries
3.    Human and financial resources        M         Governmental conmmitment and agreement on
are available to operate and maintain the            annual budget requirement through annual
monitoring stations                                  review by IDA
4.    Qualified staff are available to     M         Extensive training component designed for staff
analyze air quality data and use it to               who have shown commitment
formulate policy
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Some of the NGOs want to phase out the two-stroke engine three-wheelers from Dhaka immediately and
the project's attempt to reduce pollution from the large fleet of currently in-use three-wheelers may be seen
- 15 -



as prolonging the life of polluting vehicles. Requesting DOE to enforce the vehicle emissions regulation
may be seen as targeting the poor because this will focus on the drivers of the three-wheelers. Requiring
older buses and three-wheelers to be phased out through ernissions regulation may be seen as promoting
new technologies from abroad. A socio-economic impact assessment of vehicular technical control and
policy options will be carried out and will include views of all stakeholders to increase the ease of
implementation and reduce controversies.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
DOE has met all conditions for effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Legal Covenants
I.    DOE will award the bids for consultancy assignments by December 31, 2000, as per
agreed terms of reference.
2.     DOE will agree to implement the action plan as described in Table D of Annex 6.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O  1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
a 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jitendra J. Shah                  Richard 0. Ackermann          4>:rederick Temple
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector            Country ManagerlDirector
- 16 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BANGLADESH: Air Quality Management Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of QbjecUves           Indicators             ntoriE & Evatnation    Crticalti
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce urban air pollution    1.    Reduction in     1. CAS/ESW Review &          Reduced health impacts due
and associated health impacts concentrations of major air   Updates             to urban air pollution
pollutants                2. Future Bank Project      abatement would help sustain
2.    Decreased incidence of Preparation Documents    economic growth
illnesses and premature   3. Next Phase Preparation    Other sources of air
mortality due to respiratory    Documents             pollution do not grow
disease.                  4. Published health statistics  dramatically
5. Annual
State-of-Environment reports
Follow-on Development
Objective
Project Development       Outcome i Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Learn about mitigation     1 .    Appropriate standards, Supervision/PMU reports,  Vehicular emissions
options and develop       regulations, control options   mid-term and final project    contribute significantly to
components of an urban air  and enforcement mechanisms evaluation (ICR/OED) reports public health
quality management system   introduced and implemented                            Lessons learned from Dhaka
with the ultimate goal of  2.    Greater institutional                          will be useful for other urban
reducing human exposure to  capacity for air pollution                          areas and implemented
vehicular air pollution in a    management                                        The various governmental
cost-effective manner     3.    Air pollution                                   and non-governmental
management plan and                                  participants can work together
mechanism in place                                    effectively
Qualified staff are available
to analyze air quality data and
use it to formulate policy
- 17 -



._ Hiorchy*   bj.civOs            litdi to            !.onitQrlng _ Evauaion    Critical Axssum,ptins 2
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Vehicular emission      I.                          1. Official gazette          Standards developed will be
reduction                                              2. Vehicle testing and data on enforced and adulteration of
a. Effective vehicle       a.    Emissions data        compliance recorded by     fuels and lube oil will not be
emissions enforcement      collected for a representative  DOE/BRTA               significant
program                    sample of priority vehicle  3. Bangladesh Petroleum      Growth in new polluting
b. Enactment of standards   categories.                Corporation (BPC) data on    vehicles will not overshadow
regulating vehicular       b.    Official publication of fuel sales               pollution reduction through
emissions, and quality of fuels standards and regulations  4. Air quality reports  enforcement and
and lubricants             c.    Reduced emissions    published by Department of   new-technologies for in-use
c. Recommendations arising from vehicles participating in the Environment (DOE)   vehicles
from the results of the pilot   pilot, at no significant  5. Supervision and evaluation
programs testing different    long-term additional cost  reports
vehicle and fuel technology
options for reducing vehicular
emissions
d. Increased awareness of the d.    Increasing compliance
benefits of and options for    with standards and regulations
switching to cleaner vehicle
and fuel technology
2. Air quality monitoring    2.
a. Timely and accurate     a.    Availability to the
ambient air quality data   public of data on air pollutants
collected on a regular basis
b.    Dhaka-specific
b. Quantification of       emissions inventory and
contribution of different  source apportionment
sources to ambient air quality c.    Practical plan for fuel
c. Recommendations for fuel improvement, reliable lead
quality improvement, data on  blood data, results of
lead in blood, and results of   socio-economic analysis
socio-economic analysis on
the impact of mitigation
options on the poor
18-



Key   e        t iic
tierarchy of Obctives            Indiors              Monitoring & Evaluaon    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. Vehicular emission      I.    US$2.5 million       I. IDA disbursement reports    Sufficient political
reduction                                             2. Progress reports        commitment and adequate
a. Enforcement for in-use   a.    $1.3 million        3. Financial management    functioning of the legislative
vehicles                                              system audit reports       system to allow the adoption
b. Standards and regulations b.    $290,000                                       of emissions, fuel and
Vehicular emission                                                            lubricating oil standards
standards for in-use vehicles                                                      Drivers of two-stroke and
by type; revised fuel                                                             diesel engine vehicles
specifications; regulations for                                                  participate in pilot programs
lubricants                                                                       to adopt cleaner technologies
c. Pilot testing of options for c.    $350,000                                     Human and financial
two-stroke and diesel vehicle                                                    resources are available to
emissions control                                                                operate and maintain the
d. Public awareness raising                                                      monitoring stations in a
d.    $560,000                                        sustainable manner
2. Air quality monitoring    2   US$3.4 million
a. Laboratory upgrade,    a.    $2.8 million
management and
establishment of monitoring
stations
b. Emissions inventory and  b.    $230,000
source apportionment
c. Studies to examine the    c.    $370,000
impact of fuel quality
improvement on the petroleum
sector, biological monitoring
of lead, and socio-economic
analysis of mitigation
measures
- 19 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BANGLADESH: Air Quality Management Project
^  I 'mbiett Coicenltiatioii     6%_^J
Aniibienr Conntra
Fxposure 
Emissioiis
* Technical                                                     Options
* Economic                                           F         Fues & Vehicle
Technology
Institutional    * Establish objectives, identify data gaps, studies and pilots    - Taffic
*Legal                                              uml    Managemont
* Policy  W   Identify, analyze and select management options   Standards
Social       Develop and implement Action Plan                Emic
110  ;.ce.tives and
e Stakeholder                                                    c  .ives
Involvement
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.50 million
Vehicle Emissions Reduction: Enforcement, Standards and Pilot Control Programs
2.1     This component, which is essential to the long-term success of emissions reduction measures, will
include: (i) enforcement of emissions regulations for in-use vehicles; (ii) development of vehicle emissions
and fuel standards, and lubricant regulations; (iii) pilots for vehicular pollution control; and (vi) awareness
raising campaigns.
Enforcement:
2.2     The enforcement of emission standards for grossly polluting vehicles, a crucial part of regulation,
is weak in Bangladesh. When enforcement is carried out, most three-wheelers and diesel vehicles fail
emissions checks. Due to the lack of manpower and poor inter-institutional - coordination between DOE
and BRTA, emissions testing is done only infrequently. Emissions test data are not being compiled
systematically or analyzed. The current standards are inappropriate as they apply to all classes of vehicles,
and need to be updated. DOE and BRTA also need to understand why most vehicles (including new ones)
fail the emissions tests. These problems must be addressed before DOE and BRTA can become effective in
controlling vehicular emissions.
2.3    In the proposed LIL, a simple in-use vehicle testing program will be established and launched in
cooperation with other departments to identify and control grossly polluting vehicles. The roadside tests
will focus on "smoke" from diesel and two-stroke engines as well as carbon monoxide (CO) from gasoline
vehicles. This enforcement activity will be tied to the BRTA annual vehicle testing and registration
program currently being developed under a project financed by ADB, and will develop institutional
- 20 -



capacity at BRTA and DOE. More specifically, ADB is providing funding to set up two vehicle inspection
centers in Dhaka and three more centers in other metropolitan areas in Bangladesh. The inspection centers
in Dhaka are scheduled to start operating during 2000, and will measure CO and hydrocarbon (HC)
emissions from gasoline vehicles and percent opacity of exhaust gas from diesel vehicles.
Standards:
2.4    This project will establish standards for vehicle emissions and fuels, and regulations governing the
use of lubricants. In terms of vehicle emissions, there is a need to establish standards for (a) in-use vehicles
by vehicle type, to be incorporated into the inspection program, and (b) new or used vehicles being
imported into Bangladesh. For fuels and lubricants, there is a need to review and revise standards for fuels,
and to establish regulations for the lubricating oil used in two-stroke engine vehicles. In fact, the key role of
the quality and quantity of lubricating oil used in three-wheelers was not even considered until recently.
However, it is now postulated that focusing on the correct amount and quality of lubricating oil would
reduce emissions substantially and incur no additional cost to the driver on account of purchasing much
less lubricant of higher quality. In addition, it is also found that even new vehicles emit visual smoke and
thus may not pass DOE or BRTA tests. This indicates that fuel/lubricant quality improvement is as
important as proper maintenance. The role of proper standards, regulations and enforcement is crucial for
controlling vehicular pollution.
Pilots for Vehicular Pollution Control:
2.5    Air pollution in Dhaka is dominated by two-stroke and heavy-duty diesel vehicular emissions.
During preparation activities over the past few months, technologies for two-stroke and diesel vehicle
emissions control have been identified and proposed. This project will support pilot activities for each of
these vehicle types as a first step in promoting the most promising approaches. Some of the technical
options being proposed are still at the laboratory stage and need to be tested in pilots that would help
determine the suitability of the proposed technologies to Dhaka and other cities in Bangladesh. For each
pilot program, DOE and the technical advisors will determine (or request from the agency promoting the
program): the number and type of vehicles to be included in the pilot program; participating groups or
associations; financial flows; measurements to be taken during vehicle evaluations; and baseline data for
assessing costs and exhaust emissions reductions. Investments in each pilot technology will be limited to a
scale needed to test its feasibility. Based on the results of the pilots, policy recommendations (including
regulatory and enforcement) will be made and implemented. Examples of pilot programs to be considered
in this project are given below.
Baby-Taxi Pollution Control
2.6    Visual observations, limited measurements and engineering analysis suggest that two-stroke
engines are a major contributor to ambient HC and PMlO (particulate matter with an aerodynamic
diameter of 10 microns or smaller) concentrations. A range of control options were discussed with
manufacturers of two-stroke engines and their distributors in Dhaka. Actual vehicle population figures in
Dhaka are not available but road transport experts estimate that approximately half of all vehicles in
Bangladesh are in Dhaka. This suggests a three-wheeler population of about 50,000 in Dhaka, although
some believe this estimate to be too low due to migration of vehicles into the city from surrounding areas.
In addition, there are about 80,000 two-wheelers that are also powered mostly by two-stroke engines. The
three-wheelers are a much larger source of pollution than indicated by their population relative to
two-wheelers since they are commercial taxis and their average annual vehicle kilometers traveled is four to
five times higher than that of two-wheelers.
- 21 -



2.7    The three wheeler population has some unique characteristics that make control of emissions quite
difficult. First, the vast majority (over 90%) are manufactured by an Indian manufacturer, Bajaj, and the
engine is adapted from an original design by Vespa. The unique aspect of the engine is that the transmission
is integrated into the engine crankcase which has some specific implications for potential modifications to
reduce emissions. Second, these vehicles are relatively inexpensive, costing only about $1300 in India.
After adding import duties, taxes, transportation costs and local markup, their retail prices in Bangladesh
are about $2200. The engine and transmission account for about half the total cost, or about $600 in India.
Most major modifications may involve costs almost comparable to new engine costs. Third, the
three-wheelers are typically leased from owners on a daily basis by drivers so that neither the owners or the
drivers have much incentive to maintain their vehicles to maximize fuel economy, maximize vehicle life or
minimize pollution. Fourth, the vehicle drivers are usually uneducated, have low incomes (most drivers earn
roughly Tk. 3,000 per month), and have an incorrect or no perception of how to maintain or properly fuel
and lubricate the vehicles to maintain the engine while minimizing ernissions. As a result, the vehicles are
often heavily overloaded with as many as six people instead of three, and drivers use excess lubricant of
poor quality that is subsequently emitted to the atmosphere. It is postulated that focusing on the correct
amount and quality of lubricating oil would reduce emissions substantially while not affecting costs to the
drivers (because they would use much less of good quality lube oil).
2.8    These factors must be accounted for in designing control strategies for these vehicles. Whenever
possible, the control options to be tried should be discussed and developed with the vehicle manufacturers
for the ease of implementation. The options identified so far include: promotion of better quality (2T or
smokeless) lube oil; pumpless lubrication; better maintenance; four-stroke engine vehicles; and CNG
conversion. A brief description of some of the potential pilot programs is given below but other ideas will
be actively solicited and evaluated for three-wheeler emission reductions during project implementation.
(a) Quality Lubricant Dispensing Mechanisms and Independent Lubrication:
2.9    Significant reductions in smoke emissions can be achieved by requiring the use of better quality
lubricating oil specifically designed for two-stroke engines. This has been successfully implemented in
Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, India and other countries. Under this pilot program 30 in-use baby taxis of mixed
age will be chosen at random for a trial lasting one month. Groups of ten of these baby-taxis will be
supplied with small packages of:
*     Smokeless lube oil (JASO FC classification)
*     2T lube oil
Straight-run mineral lube oil currently used in the market
2.10   The baby taxis will be checked before and after the pilot program to note the status of the engine
performance. The emissions from these three groups of baby-taxis will be measured at the beginning and at
the end of each week for a period of one month to record emissions of smoke, CO and HC. Surveys of
drivers and owners will also be undertaken to determine user satisfaction. If a significant improvement can
be demonstrated in the trial, the system may be introduced on a larger scale. If this option shows promise,
policy and regulatory requirements, and methods of dispensing high-quality lube oils will be studied
separately.
2.11   Another approach is to consider is independent lubrication. The pumpless lubricating systems can
be added to a baby-taxi engine at a cost of about $30 per unit. Pumpless oil systems eliminate the need for
drivers to mix lube oil with their gasoline, thereby eliminating the common problem of drivers adding too
- 22 -



much lubricant with a consequent increase in tailpipe smoke emissions. The pilot could equip 20 baby-taxis
with pumpless systems to determine on a small scale if the systems are reliable and durable, cost effective
and reduce smoke emissions over the short and long term. The tasks for this pilot include: purchase and
installation of pumpless lube oil systems on 20 baby taxis; tailpipe emission tests on the vehicles
immediately before and after the installation; weekly emission tests; surveys of drivers and owners to
determine vehicle performance; user satisfaction and reliability of the systems; technical and financial
evaluation and reporting; and recommendations regarding wider use of the technology.
(b) Regular Maintenance:
2.12   A major cause of emissions is poor engine maintenance. For this pilot, 20 in-use baby-taxis,will be
chosen at random. Ten will be maintained under the program and the other ten will be monitored while
continuing under the current maintenance practice. The emission levels from both groups will be studied to
see if significant reductions in emissions are obtained through regular maintenance. It is likely that the
results of the studies conducted by the Automobile Research Association of India, Bajaj and Uttara Motors
will be replicated. The ARAI study showed that setting a vehicle to the manufacturer's specifications alone
can reduce the total emissions of HC and CO by 30 to 40 percent based on actual repairs conducted on a
sample of three-wheelers recruited from in-use vehicles such regular maintenance also improve fuel
economy by up to 20%. Similar findings in Dhaka would argue for the introduction of a mandatory
maintenance program that requires that all vehicles be set to the manufacturers' specifications to be
registered.
(c) Engine Replacement:
2.13   This option will try to replace the existing two-stroke engines with four-stroke engines, if they are
available in time and are technically feasible. If such four-stroke engines are not available or replacement is
difficult due to transmission alignment issues, the low emission post-1996 model engine may be tried. A
reasonable number of in-use vehicles should be fitted with new engines and their emissions should be
compared with those of the current engines. If shown to be economically feasible, a "buyback" program
could be sponsored by the government (duty waiver to make engine replacement attractive to the owners) or
by donor agencies to subsidize the cost of the replacement engine.
(d) Alternative Fuels:
2.14   Compressed Natural gas (CNG) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) have been suggested as
altemative fuels for three-wheelers. Careful consideration should be given to the use of CNG because
natural gas is an abundant local resource in Bangladesh. However conversion to CNG would require a
bulky storage cylinder, and the entire system may be expensive. There may also be some safety issues
related to installing a CNG cylinder on a three wheeler. CNG conversion would also require a four-stroke
engine or a separate oil pump and lubrication system. Pilot programs on the conversion of gasoline
three-wheelers to CNG in Pakistan and India should be monitored for lessons learned. If a need for an
additional pilot program in Dhaka is established, a small number (five) of vehicles can be converted to
CNG and their emission levels, overall reliability and economics investigated. On account of installing an
independent lubricating system (lube oil atomizer), the amount of lubricant used will be carefully
controlled, giving comparable emission benefits as installing an independent lubricating system on a
gasoline-based two-stroke engine.
- 23 -



Diesel Emissions Reduction Pilot Programs
2.15   Along with increased enforcement and improving the in-use and new vehicular standards, DOE will
work with BPC to improve diesel fuel standards (quality). In addition, DOE, in consultation with BRTA
and others, will develop and implement policies and technological interventions to reduce diesel vehicle
emissions which will include regular maintenance, anti-smoke belching campaign, and phase-out of older
vehicles.
(a) Regular Maintenance:
2.16   A major cause of high exhaust emissions is poor engine maintenance. For this pilot, 20 to 40
in-use buses will be chosen using stratified random sampling. Half will be maintained according to the
vehicle manufacturers' specifications under the program and the other half will be monitored while
continuing under the current maintenance practice. The emission levels from both groups will be monitored
to see if significant reductions in emissions are obtained through regular maintenance. It is likely that
results of the studies conducted by the Automobile Research Association of India on gasoline engine
vehicles, and observations of lack of visible smoke from the well-maintained BEST buses in Mumbai and
other cities, will be replicated. These observations would argue for the introduction of a mandatory
maintenance program that requires that all vehicles be set to the manufacturers' specifications to be
registered. These requirements may be imposed on the bus and truck fleet operators.
(b) Anti Smoke-belching Campaign
2.17   In Manila where air pollution is similarly a very serious problem, a private sector initiative to curb
diesel emissions from trucks has been successfully carried out. Efforts to find private sector champions
may be replicated in Dhaka.
2.18   San Miguel Corporation, one of the Philippines' largest business conglomerates, took the lead in
implementing the practice of not allowing high-polluting vehicles onto their premises. Started at one of the
company's brewers, this initiative required that suppliers' trucks be tested for exhaust emissions before
making deliveries. Only those trucks that met the target emissions were allowed to do business with San
Miguel, and the vehicles were tested every six months for compliance. The corporate image of San Miguel
Corporation-as being environmentally friendly and concerned about air quality and public health-
improved enormously as a result.
2.19  'When the program was started in April 1993, nearly half of the trucks tested failed to meet the
emission standards. Today, the failure rate is only three percent. San Miguel has expanded this emissions
test program company-wide, and over one hundred firms have followed their example. Corporate members
of the Philippine Business for Social Progress, together with the Management Association of the
Philippines, the Philippine Business for the Environment and the Philippine Chamber of Commerce and
Industry have banded together to establish the Center for Corporate Citizenship, which is now actively
promoting this program. In the case of operators and drivers, the knowledge of the adverse health impacts
of air pollution was a key factor in convincing them to participate in the program.
(c) Phase-out of Older Vehicles
2.20   The highly visible black smoke from the diesel vehicles is generally due to too much fuel relative to
the amount of air, poor mixing between fuel and air, or the use of improper lubricating oil. The newer
- 24 -



designed vehicles meeting US 1994 and tighter emissions standards around the world have resulted in the
virtual elimination of visible smoke emission from properly functioning engines. In addition to increased
exhaust emissions, old diesel vehicles (for example, buses and trucks) that are poorly maintained pose
safety risks on the road. In many developed countries, older commercial vehicles are retired after 15 -to 20
years. Some countries have required older commercial vehicles to be phased out of the city centers unless
the engines are reconditioned or other measures taken to reduce exhaust emissions. Altematively, fiscal
incentives (for exanple, reducing duties on the purchase of new diesel vehicles and increasing the
registration fee for older vehicles in the absence of engine overhaul) can be considered to encourage the
phase-out of older vehicles and accelerate the fleet turnover. The older diesel technology in Bangladesh may
be similarly phased out of Dhaka to reduce air pollution. Some of the foregoing measures are being
seriously examined and deliberated in India at present where Delhi has already banned commercial vehicles
that are 15 years of age or older. An altemative option being considered in India is to require trucks and
buses to meet the new particulate emission standards for the year 2000 irrespective of age. Engine tests are
being conducted by ARAI to assess the feasibility of such a measure. The amount of possible emissions
reductions and associated issues will be studied and recommendations will be made to DOE and BRTA
regarding usefulness of such measures for Dhaka.
Awareness Raising Campaigns
2.21   To guide the development of the awareness raising campaign, the Bank conducted a survey on
attitudes, awareness, and behaviors relating to air quality in Dhaka. The survey covered a total of 700
stakeholders (mainly commuters, transport owners, and drivers of baby taxis, trucks, and buses). More
than 70 percent of the respondents were aware of Dhaka's air pollution problem and described it as serious
in nature. However, drivers and owners of the main polluting vehicles were less inclined to view air
pollution as a serious problem compared to commuters who use these vehicles. Among all stakeholders,
there was little understanding of the specific impact of air pollution on their health or the environment.
Among drivers and owners of polluting vehicles, knowledge of how to reduce emissions and proper fuel/oil
mix and maintenance practices was poor.
One of the goals of this project is to design and establish an environmental education program to: 1)-raise
awareness and promote behavior change among vehicle owners and drivers and those who influence their
fuel and maintenance practices (filling station owners attendants, mechanics) about the impact of the air
pollution problem and ways to reduce smoke emissions; 2) build support for change among the public to
adopt measures to improve air quality; 3) build capacity within DOE to carry out an environmental
education campaign on air quality. The project will finance the cost of this awareness campaign
($400,000). Examples of the activities in the campaign include: (a) production and distribution of posters,
leaflets, bumper stickers, training videos, and other information materials listing simple actions that can be
taken by drivers to mitigate the problem; (b) workshops for drivers and vehicle owners on the upcoming
vehicle inspection program and the standards for vehicle emissions, lubricating oil and fuels; (c) journalist
workshops on air quality; (d) public service announcements on public and private television and radio; (e)
broadcasts and displays of daily pollution advisories in prominent locations and by the media; (f) enlisting
support of autorickshaw, bus, and truck owners' and drivers' associations to disseminate information to
members and create communications champions who can educate their peers; (g) in-class and
extracurricular activities in schools and universities; (h) regular dissemination of air quality data to media;
(i) targeting private companies that do business with truckers to boycott polluting trucks; (j) electronic
knowledge management activities, such as development of a website for the systematic
organization/dissemination/feedback regarding information on issues and options for air quality
management, including monitored data on ambient air quality and trends, analysis, studies and pilot
projects, and electronic versions of the primary reports (e.g. the Annual State of Air Pollution report and
- 25 -



the quarterly bulletin on air quality management activities) generated as part of this project. The
communication strategy will be prepared and implemented by a marketing/communications firm and/or
NGOs and the Department of Environment's Publicity Department in consultation with the Bank.
Communication activities will be coordinated with the ESMAP-funded auto clinics and those undertaken by
the Dhaka Urban Transport Project.
Project Component 2 - US$3.40 million
Air Quality Monitoring and Evaluation
2.22   This component will generate essential air quality inforrnation and evaluate pilot activities listed
above. It will include: (i) air quality monitoring in Dhaka; (ii) air quality laboratory upgrade; and (iii) four
studies for examining key issues affecting public health and future strategy for pollution control.
Air Ouality Monitoring
2.23   Air quality monitoring is an integral part of an environmental management strategy. Data collected
are used for evaluating the current pollution level, as well as cost-effectiveness and impact of control
options, The number of sites and types of pollutants to be monitored depends on the sources in the area.
DOE has initiated air monitoring in Dhaka using high-volume samplers. Due to lack of staff, electric
power, and fixed stations, DOE currently conducts air monitoring for eight hours near traffic corridors at
locations where power is available. This informal monitoring needs to be formalized with quality control
and assurance so that the data obtained can be used for developing long-term air pollution control
strategies.
2.24   The first phase of this component will establish a city-wide monitoring system in Dhaka consisting
of one central station and a few (two to three) smaller stations. This component will include equipment
purchase, technical and professional training, laboratory management, data analysis and modeling, policy
and strategy development, and quality assurance. The pollutants to be monitored at the central station in
Dhaka include particulate matter less than 10 and 2.5 microns in size (PM10/PM2.5); CO; oxides of
nitrogen (NOx), oxides of sulfur (SOx), ozone, non-methane hydrocarbons, and lead. Monitoring at the
secondary sites in Dhaka will be lirited to PM0O/PM2.5 initially.
2.25   The data obtained will be utilized to evaluate piloted technologies. It will also be made available to
the public, and all stakeholders will be involved in finding solutions to controlling air pollution. This
component will be undertaken in phases to help ensure that equipment is acquired at the same rate as that at
which the technical capacity necessary for its operation and maintenance is developed. Laboratory facilities
will be upgraded to support the program, and data management and quality assurance plans will be
adopted.
2.26   This project will initially procure monitoring equipment for three sites in Dhaka, and conduct
technical and professional training in monitoring and laboratory management. Technicians from selected
secondary cities will be invited to Dhaka to participate in the training, and leam from the Dhaka program.
Portable PMIO monitors may be employed in the secondary cities or "hot spots" in Dhaka. After one to
two years, additional equipment will be procured for selected secondary cities.
Four Other Activities
2.27   Emissions Inventorv and Source Assessment: Technical assistance for constructing an emissions
inventory has already begun under project preparation. More comprehensive emissions inventory activities
- 26 -



will continue under the project, including mobile, fixed, and area sources such as vehicular traffic, industry,
open burning, roadway dust and brick-making, with the objective of completing the inventory by the end of
2000. The emissions inventory study recently completed in Mumbai is being used as a model where
applicable. The inventory forms the basis for ongoing analysis, including tracking the impact of the
emission control programs, supporting dispersion modeling, developing control strategies and source
attribution analysis. Detailed activities under the project will include: (a) particulate matter assessment to
provide a basis for effective control actions; (b) modeling to link the emissions inventory with ambient air
quality; and (c) additional research (such as health impact assessment) as needed.
2.28   Three additional studies will be undertaken in this LIL. They are described briefly below:
a)     Health Impacts of Air Pollution;
b)     Impact of the downstream petroleum sector on the introduction of cleaner fuels. The current
petroleum product pricing and the overall structure of the downstream sector are not conducive to the
introduction of cleaner faels. The cost of introducing cleaner fuels under the current system as well as
altematives should be explored to identify the least cost option given the political constraints; and,
c)     Socio-economic assessment of mitigation measures, particularly their impact on the poor. The
economic costs incurred by various mitigation measures may fall disproportionately on the poor, requiring
an analysis of relative benefits and costs. A socio-economic analysis should be undertaken before certain
measures are selected for implementation.
- 27 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BANGLADESH: Air Quality Management Project
Projecti00  Cost By Compnent            US $X XLocal  U $Foreign   US Total
ProjectCost Bv Component         LL US $million oa    US $m[rion  TUS$million
1. Vehicular Pollution Control and Enforcement            1.60         0.60         2.20
2. Air Quality Monitoring                                 1.90         1.20         3.10
Total Baseline Cost                                       3.50         1.80         5.30
Physical Contingencies                                   0.30                      0.30
Price Contingencies                                      0.20         0.13         0.33
Total Project Costs              4.00         1.93          5.93
Total Financing Required              4.00          1.93         5.93
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category               US $Million    US $million   US $million
Goods                                                      1.65           1.10         2.75
Works                                                      0.64           0.00         0.64
Services including Training                                 1.33         0.83          2.16
Other                                                      0.38          0.00          0.38
Total Project Costs     4.00          1.93          5.93
Total Financing Required      4.00          1.93         5.93
- 28 -



Annex 4
BANGLADESH: Air Quality Management Project
Because of the nature of this LIL, traditional economic analysis will not be performed. Durng the
course of the project, however, careful cost-effectiveness analysis of policy and technical options
for reducing vehicular air emissions will be carried out.
- 29 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BANGLADESH: Air Quality Management Project
Because of the nature of this LIL, traditional financial analysis is not applicable.
- 30 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BANGLADESH: Air Quality Management Project
Procurement
For the procurement of goods and works financed in part or in whole from IDA funds, the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 (Revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) shall apply. Consultants' services financed in part or in
whole from IDA funds will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1977, revised September 1997 and
January 1999.
Table A summarizes the project items, the related cost estimates and proposed methods of procurement.
Amounts in parentheses show the amounts financed by IDA. Table B summarizes the threshold for
procurement methods and prior review.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of goods, works and services will be undertaken in accordance with the following procedures:
(a)    Works (US$0.64 million equivalent): Works' contracts are anticipated for construction of a
Continuous Air Monitoring (CAM) station, rehabilitation of the existing laboratory, eight satellite
monitoring stations, sixteen enforcement check-posts and vertical extension of the DOE office building by
one floor. These contracts are small and scattered all over the Dhaka city, the very sizes and locations of
the works would not attract the interest of foreign contractors, and hence will be procured following the
national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures, acceptable to IDA. However, very small works' contracts,
estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract, may be awarded by obtaining at least three
quotations from qualified local contractors for up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000.
(b)    Goods (US$2.75 million equivalent):
(i)    equipment for the CAM station, laboratory, field and vehicle emission (up to an aggregate
amount US$1,000,000 equivalent), will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures;
(ii)   other goods, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured following national competitive bidding (NCB)
procedures, acceptable to IDA. These items include a limited number of vehicles, motor cycles, laboratory
supplies including computers and accessories, public display board, audiovisual and office equipment;
(iii)   urgently required equipment for testing and air quality monitoring, estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 per contract, in aggregate not to exceed US$700,000 equivalent, procured following
international shopping procedure (by obtaining at least three quotations from two different countries) and
books and journals estimated to cost less than US$35,000 equivalent, may be procured following national
shopping procedure by obtaining at least three price quotations from qualified suppliers in accordance with
paras. 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines; and
(iv)   Some specialized books and journals for training purposes may be procured through direct
- 31 -



contraQting up to an aggregate amount of US$25,000 equivalent.
(c)    Services including Training and Fellowships (US$2.16 million equivalent):
(i)    Consultants' Services for Overall Technical Assistance, Emissions Inventory, Policy
Studies, Three-Wheeler Emissions Reduction, Fuel and Oil Quality Program, Environmental Education,
Dissemination and Outreach, and Supervision of Volunteers, will be procured following the Quality- and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method.
(ii)   Services for design and supervision of construction, and driver/mechanic training,
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured following the Least-Cost
Selection method.
(iii)  Individual Consultants, if required, will be selected in accordance with Section V of the
Consultants' Guidelines.
(iv)   Training and fellowships may be undertaken with IDA's prior agreement.
(d)    Staff Salaries and Operating Costs (US$0.38 million equivalent): The project will finance, on a
declining basis, incremental staff salaries and the operating costs of the Project Management Unit (PMiU)
and these may be carried out following GOB's normal procedure.
Procurement Capacity Review: All procurement under the proposed Project will be handled by the PMU
of the Department of Environment (DOE). It will be headed by a Project Director, who will be supported
by the Deputy Director Accounts. The Deputy Director Accounts will be responsible for procurement
activities of the project. Since this is the first project by the Bank with DOE and since the PMU has not yet
been established, its procurement capacity could not be assessed, therefore the procurement risks are
considered to be high. To mitigate the risks, it has been agreed that the Deputy Director Accounts, with
adequate knowledge of the Bank's procurement procedures, will be deputed to conduct procurement
activities. The Project will support training on the Bank's procurement policies and procedures. These
actions are sununarized in Table D.
Procurement and Selection Planning: Procurement requirements for Goods, Works and Services have
been identified. The Procurement and Selection Plans for the project have been prepared. The Plans will be
updated annually (but if situation demands, may be revised at any point during project implementation) and
submitted to IDA for review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1
to the respective Guidelines. Procurement of all goods, works and selection of all consultants shall be
undertaken in accordance with the Plans as shall have been approved by IDA and with the provisions of
said paragraph I of the respective Guidelines.
Use of Standard Documents: For ICB procurement of goods, the use of IDA's Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD) is mandatory. For NCB procurement, the SBD for goods and works approved by IDA
will be used. For selection of consulting firms, the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP),
including standard contract forms, will be used. The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form for Goods and
Works, and Sample Form of Evaluation for Services will be followed for submission of evaluation reports
to IDA.
Review of Procurement Performance: The procurement status and its compliance with the Bank's
- 32 -



Guidelines will be monitored on a continuous basis by IDA. As part of the Projects' planned mid-term re
view in FY2002, a comprehensive assessment of procurement performance will also be carried out. Based
on this assessment, in consultation with GOB, IDA may revise the prior review threshold and the
procurement and selection methods.
Acceptabilitv of NCB:
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines:
* standard bidding documents approved by IDA shall be used;
* invitations to bids shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper and
bidding documents shall be made available to prospective bidders at least 28 days prior to the
deadline for the submission of bids;
* bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost;
* bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
required fee;
-   foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to
national bidders;
-   qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding
documents, and if a registration process is required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest
evaluated bidder shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any let or hindrance;
e bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or by mail;
* all bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding documents, with a bidder's bid
security applying only to a specific bid;
e bids shall be opened in public in one place, preferably immediately, but no later than one hour,
after the deadline for submission of bids;
*   evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding
documents, in a format and specified period agreed to with IDA;
*   a bid shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the
prior concurrence of IDA;
* split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out;
*   when two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an investigation shall be made to determine
any evidence of collusion, following which (A) if collusion is deternined, the parties involved shall
be disqualified and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder;
or (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving
the concurrence of IDA;
- 33 -



*   contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial period of bid validity
so that extensions are not necessary, and extension of bid validity may be sought only under
exceptional circumstances;
*   extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of IDA for the first
request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks and for all subsequent requests for extensions
irrespective of the period;
* negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
* re-bidding shall not be carried out without IDA's prior concurrence; and
*   all contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated in the contract
documents, with a contractor's or a supplier's performance security applying to a specific contract
under which it was furnished.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurementt Method
;EVx iendurIY atSeor          u     ICB                                 2         N.SF.;      ; Tota Goa\,, t
._  _ __ _  _  _   _  _     _                     .te                          _  _ __._
1. Works                              0.00            0.44            0.20           0.00           0.64
(0.00)          (0.33)         (0.16)          (0.00)         (0.49)
2. Goods                              1.08            1.15            0.52           0.00           2.75
(0.69)          (0.74)         (0.44)          (0.00)         (1.87)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00            2.16            0.00           2.16
*                             (0.00)          (0.00)          (2.12)          (0.00)         (2.12)
4. Staff salaries** and project       0.00            0.00            0.38            0.00           0.38
office operating cost
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.23)          (0.00)         (0.23)
Total                              1.08            1.59            3.26           0.00            5.93
_________________________ _  |       (0.69)          (1.07)          (2.95)         (0.00)          (4.71)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
X Includes civil works through the collection of three quotations, goods to be procured through
intemational/national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project.
* Services will be procured according to QCBS and Least-Cost methods, and Individual Consultants, if required,
will be selected according to Section V of the Consultants Guidelines.
** Incremental staff salaries
- 34 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods and Works: Prior review by IDA for procurement of goods and works will be limited to the first
contract under ICB and NCB irrespective of value, and all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more. Prior review by IDA will also include the Specifications, comparison and evaluation
of quotations and the draft contract for the procurement of goods following the international shopping (IS)
as well as national shopping methods. Prior to execution of any procurement under direct contracting
method, IDA will review the specifications and the draft contract. All other contracts will be subject to
selective post-review by IDA. Such selective post-review of contracts below the thresholds will be carried
out for up to approximately ten percent of the contracts awarded. The Procurement, Disbursement and
Audit Team (PDAT) of the World Bank Office, Dhaka, firms hired for the purpose, and/or visiting IDA
supervision missions will undertake such reviews of sample contracts.
Services: Prior IDA review will be required for all Services contracts estimated to exceed US$50,000
equivalent for firms, and US$20,000 for individuals, if there be any. IDA's prior review will also be,
required for amendment to firms' contract raising the contract value to the equivalent of US$50,000, and
amendment to contract of individual consultant raising the contract value to the equivalent of US$20,000 or
more. Further, all terns of reference (TOR) for technical assistance, including studies will be subject to
IDA's prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                    .C.  traont  ubict to
Thrshold               Procurent                Pr
E_____l__ure C_               (US$)                                             (U }
1. Works                     >=US$25,000                 NCB              First contract irrespective
US$0.64 million                                                           of value and all contracts
US$50,000 equivalent or
more.
|____ _  <US$25,000          Three Quotations              None
- 35 -



2. Goods                    >=US$100,000                 ICB             First contract irrespective
US$2.75 million                                                          of value and all contracts
US$50,000 equivalent or
more
<100,000                  NCB             First contract irrespective
of value and all contracts
US$50,000 equivalent or
more
<50,000                    IS            Specifications, comparison,
evaluation of quotations
and draft contract
<30,000                   NS             Specifications, comparison,
evaluation of quotations
and
draft contract
Direct Contracting
Specifications and draft
contract
3. Services              >=-US$50,000 (firms)    QCBS and Least-Cost              All
US$2.75 million
<US$50,000 (firms)                                    TORs
>=US$20,000 (individuals) Qualifications, References       All
<US$20,000        Qualifications, References       TORs
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$3.5 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six (6) months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 36 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement under the proposed Credit will be made as indicated in Table C, which indicates the
percentages of financing for different categories of expenditures of the project. It is expected that IDA
funds will be disbursed in four years time, the fiscal year disbursement estimate is provided on page 2 of
the PAD.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$ iFlion         FInancing Percentago
1. Works                                  0.44                         80%
2. Goods                                   1.68                   100% of foreign,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory),
and 70% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3. Services including Training and         1.91              100% net of taxes and duties
Fellowships
4. Staff salaries and project office      0.21           100% up to 31 December 2001 and 60%
operating cost                                                       thereafter
5. Unallocated                            0.47
Total Project Costs                       4.71
Total                                     4.71
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Until PMR based disbursement is agreed upon, the current disbursement procedures will be applicable
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit. IDA would require full documentation for prior review for those
cases where contracts for civil works and goods exceeds US50,000 equivalent, and for consulting
services contracts US$50,000 for firms and US$20,000 in case of individuals. Expenditures below the
above threholds and expenditures on incremental staff salaries and operating costs would be claimed on
SOEs.
Special account:
To facilitate the implementation of the project, the Borrower may open and maintain a Special Account in
Convertible Taka in a comnmercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA with authorized
allocation of Tk.27,000,000. Eligible individual payments grater than one-fourth of the authorized
allocation of the Special Account may be paid by the Bank directly to the suppliers/contractors and/or
consultants or issuance of Special Commitment at the specific request of GOB. At the start of the project
the authorized allocation shall be limited to Tk. 13,500,000. The remaining amount of the authorized
allocation may be requested only after cumulative disbursements reach SDR 1.0 million. The Special
Account will be replenished by IDA on the basis of reimbursement claims for eligible expenditures.
- 37 -



Financial Management Arrangements
The financial management system for the project will be consistent with IDA's operational policies (OP/BP
10.02). DOE will be responsible for the implementation of the project. The detailed financial management
requirements are included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Key elements of the financial
management system are as follows:
Staffing
DOE does not have adequate and qualified financial management staff. Under the Project, a Financial
Management Cell will be set up to report to the Project Director (PD). A Deputy Director of Accounfs
(DDA) having Master's in Accounting or Finance with five years experience or CA course completed with
three years experience in accounting and auditing will head the finance cell and he will directly report to
PD. DDA will ensure timely submission of Project Management Reports (PMRs) and ensure proper
financial management of the project. He will also be responsible to the Project Director for procurement
under the project. An Accounts Officer (AO) and a Cashier will assist DDA. The job description of DDA
is reflected in the PIP and has been reviewed by IDA.
Accounting
DOE maintains accounts on a cash basis like other Government departments. Initially, the accounts
required for project accounting purposes will be manually prepared by DDA. The accounting and
reporting system of the project would be computerized by March 31, 2001. The chart of accounts will be
established to allow reporting by project component, disbursement categories and activities. The PMU shall
establish procedures and records adequate to monitor the progress of the project in accordance with sound
accounting practices to be contained in the project Financial Management Manual.
Internal Control
Intemal control mechanisms for the project would include the establishment of appropriate budgeting
systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets and targets, monitoring of
physical and financial progress, monitoring of unit costs; development and adoption of simple, clear and
transparent financial and accounting policies which would govern financial management for the project and
reconciliation and confirmation of bank balances; the establishment of procedures and systems for ensuring
standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of
authorization, segregation of incompatible duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, annual and
operational audit of the project financial statements including verification of the accuracy of the PMRs.
Budgeting
By February each year, DOE will submit their annual work program and budgets for the following year to
IDA for review and agreement. ADP budget should be requested in accordance with the agreed work
program.
- 38 -



Reporting System
The main objective of the Project Monitoring Reports(PMRs) is to provide project management
with timely information on various financial aspects, and thereby serve as an effective project
management tool. The key aspects of the PMRs include quarterly Project Monitoring Reports for
the project. Project Monitoring Report will show: (i) Financial Statements that include: Sources
and Uses of Funds for 'each quarter'; 'year to-date'; and 'cumulative costs of the project to-date';
Usage of funds by Project Activities; Cash Withdrawal; Cash Forecast for two quarters; and a
Special Accounts Reconciliation Statement; (ii) Output Monitoring Report that includes physical
progress report and (iii) Procurement Management Reports that include: Procurement Process
Monitoring (Goods and Works), Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultants' Services),
Contract Expenditure Report ( Goods and Works) and Contract Expenditure Report
(Consultants' Services). These reports will be submitted on a quarterly basis which will be
reviewed by the Bank for acceptability for PMR based disbursement by June 30, 2001. However,
until full PMRs is submitted, DOE/PMU will submit on a quarterly basis: (i) Financial Statements
that include "Sources and Uses of Funds for each quarter, year-to-date, and cumullative costs of
the project to-date and (ii) Procurement Management Reports
Audit Requirements and Arrangements
Annual Audit: The Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG), through the Directorate of
Audit-Foreign Aided Project (DOAFAP), carries out audits of foreign aided projects. The project
financial statements/SOEs and Special Account of the project will be audited as per auditing
standards followed by C&AG. The audit reports will be submitted to IDA not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. A draft TOR for such audit has already been prepared
and discussed with DOAFAP.
Operational Audits: In addition to above, C&AG will also do an operational audit and may
require the assistance of extemal firm. IDA shall review the terms of reference and selection
method of audit firms two months before the audit is due. The costs for engaging external audit
firns will be eligible for financing under the consultants category of the project. The operational
audits will undertake a thorough inventory and physical verification of assets procured under the
project. The operational audit will be carried out after two years from the date of the credit
effectiveness.
Action Plan for Improvement of Financial Management and Procurement Capacity
As indicated above, DOE does not have adequate financial management and procurement capacity. The
accounts of DOE are currently maintained manually. PMU will prepare the Sources and Usage of Funds
and Procurement Monitoring Reports using spreadsheet software in a timely manner. The following
financial management and procurement action plan will be agreed during negotiations, to bring the agency's
capacity to a level where a full set of PMRs can be produced. Full set of PMRs will be produced and
submitted to IDA by June 30, 2001 and a decision for conversion to PMR-based disbursement will be made
once the Borrower and IDA are satisfied with the quality of such reports.
- 39 -



Table D: ACTION PLAN FOR IMPROVEMENT OF FINANCL4L MANAGEMENT AND
PROCUREMENT CAPACITY
Issues                                        Agreed Actions
* DOE has inadequate staff for project  * By October 31, 2000, DOE will provide/recruit one Deputy
financial management                   Director of Accounts, one Accounts Officer and a Cashier for
the project.
* DOE has no Project Financial         *  By December 31, 2000 a Project Financial Management
Management Manual                      Manual will be prepared by DOE.
*  Training to Staff to produce full   * By December 31, 2000 adequate training will arrange training
PMRs                                   by DOE to Deputy Director of Accounts and the Accounts
Officer to meet the Bank's requirements for financial
management, disbursements and production of PMRs.
* Production of fall Set of PMRs       0 By June 30, 2001, full set of PMRs will be produced for
review by the Bank.
* Coputerization of Accounting and     *  By March 31, 2001, the accounting and reporting system of
Reporting System                       the project will be computerized.
* DOE has inadequate staff for         * Deputy Director Accounts to be appointed by October 31,
procurement activities of the project  2000, will have adequate knowledge of the Bank's procurement
procedures.
* By December 31, 2000, the project will support training on the
Bank's procurement policies and procedures, for the Project
Director, Deputy Director of Accounts and other PMU staff as
necessary. This training will be agreed beforehand with the
Bank's Procurement, Disbursement and Audit Tear.
-40 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BANGLADESH: Air Quality Management Project
Proiect Schedule.                                 Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)
Appraisal mission departure                     09/28/98                     09/28/98
Negotiations                                    06/01/2000                   07/06/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   08/01/2000
Prepared by:
Departnent of Environment, MOEF, Bangladesh
Preparation assistance:
PHRD, 2-Stroke Initiative, ENV (GEF)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Jitendra Shah                     Task Team Leader & Sr. Environmental Engineer
Nurul Alam                        Senior Manager, Bangladesh Office Procurement
Sadaf Alam                        Program Assistant
Carter Brandon                    Lead Environmental Economist
Jose P. Correia da Silva          Senior Counsel
Aminul Haque                      Senior Procurement Specialist
Nagaraja Rao Harshadeep           Environmental Specialist
Mozammel Hoque                    Senior Financial Management Specialist
A. S. M. Bashirul Huq             Senior Energy Specialist
Sonia Kapoor                      Environmental Specialist
Mohammad Iqbal Karim              Urban Transport Specialist
Jaleh Kelly                       Program Assistant
Masami Kojima                     Senior Energy Specialist
Ivonna Kratynski                  Financial Management Specialist
Paul Martin                       Enviromnent Specialist
Mohammad Sayeed                   Disbursement Officer
- 41 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BANGLADESH: Air Quality Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Workshop on Integrated Approach to Vehicular Air Pollution in Dhaka, April 26-27, 1998: technical
papers
Vehicular Air Pollution Control in Dhaka: Recommendations made by the Consultative Group Meeting
Dhaka, April 26-27, 1998
Priority Framework for NEMAP Implementation, MOEF and World Bank, May 1997
Setting Environmental Priorities in Bangladesh, World Bank, May 8, 1997
A Review of Key Environmental Issues in Bangladesh, World Bank, May, 1997
Economic Valuation of Air and Water Pollution in Bangladesh. Carter Brandon, World Bank, May, 1997
Industrial Pollution in Bangladesh: A Detailed Analysis, Mala Hettige and Carter Brandon, World Bank, May
1997
Private/Public Sector Roles in Improving Pollution Management in Bangladesh, Carter Brandon, World Bank, and
Lars Rylander, SPM, May 1997
AQMP: Aide-memoire (3/14/99) and action letter (3/16/99)
AQMP: Aide-memoire (7/23/99) and action letter (8/19/99)
AQMP: Aide-memoire (12/12/99) and action letter January 25, 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 42 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BANGLADESH: Air Quality Management Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                        Purpose                                       IBRD      IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
BD-PE-37294   1999 GOB                         ROAD REH. MAINT. III                                0.00     273.00        0.00    263.96        5.07       0.00
BD-PE-41887   1999 GOB                         MUNICIPAL SERVICES                                  0.00     138.60        0.00     133.82     138.88       0.00
BO-PE-49790   1999 GOB                         EXPORT DIVERSIF.                                    0.00      32.00        0.00      31.58       0.00       0.00
BD-PE-50745   1999 GOB                         ARSENIC CONTROL                                     0.00      32.40        0.00     31.19        3.45       0.00
BD-PE-9524    1999 GOB                         DHAKAURB TRANSPORT                                  0.00     177.00        0.00     173.03       7.94      0.00
BD-PE-37857   1998 GOB                         HEALTH AND POP PROGRAM                              0.00     250.00        0.00     173.00     -34.77       0.00
BD-PE-40713   1998 GOB                         SILK DEV PILOT PROJ.                                0.00      11.35        0.00      10.22       3.46       0.00
BD-PE-44789   1998 GOB                         PRIV SEC INFR DEVT                                  0.00     235.00       0.00     224.84       68.80      .0.80
BD-PE-9550    1998 GOB                         PRIMARY EDUC DEV                                    0.00     150.00        0.00     143.42      21.50       0.00
BD-PE-40985   1997 GOB                         POVERTYALLEVIATION                                  0.00     105.00        0.00      26.61      -4.09       0.00
BD-PE-9482    1997 GOBIDWASA                   DHAKAWATERISAN. IV                                  0.00      80.30        0.00      60.54      29.15       0.00
BD-PE-9518    1997 GOB                         2ND RURAL RDS & MRKT                                0.00     153.00        0.00      93.08       6.42      18.09
BD-PE-9484    1996 GOB                         AG. RES. MANAGEMENT                                 0.00      50.00       0.00       31.53      26.80       0.00
BD-PE-9545    1996 GOB                         RIVER BANK PROTECTIO                                0.00     166.90        0.00      48.85      26.24      14.54
BD-PE-9549    1996 GOB                         COASTAL EMBANKMENT R                                0.00      69.50       0.00       19.56       6.66       4.14
BD-PE-9560    1996 GOB                         NON-FORMAL EDUCATION                                0.00      10.50        0.00      7.14        2.18       0.00
BD-PE-9496    1995 GOB                         NUTRITION                                           0.00      59.80       0.00      40.05       17.29       0.00
BD-PE-9533    1995 GOB                         GAS INFRASTRUCTURE                                  0.00     120.80       0.00      57.90       53.46      54.69
BD-PE-9465    1994 GOB                         2ND ROAD REHAB & MAI                                0.00     226.80       0.00      84.35       -5.51       0.00
BD-PE-9555    1993 GOB                         FEMALE SECONDARY SCH                                0.00      68.00        0.00      20.38      17.13      11.59
BD-PE-9470    1992 GOB                         FOREST RESOURCES MGM                                0.00      49.60        3.32      11.67      12.65       3.55
BD-PE-9540    1991 GOB                        INLAND WATER TRANSP                                  0.00      51.25        0.00      21.44      17.39       1.70
Total:        0.00    2,510.80        3.32     1,708.16    420.10     107.50
-43 -



BANGLADESH
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1 999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval          Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1980/98             IPDC                             10.00     0.00     1.05     0.00     0.00     0.00     1.05     0.00
1985/95             IDLC                              0.00     0.00     0.15     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.15     0.00
1991                Dynamic Textile                   1.86     0.00     0.00     1.48     1.86     0.00     0.00     1.48
1997                DBH                               0.00     0.00     0.65     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.65     0.00
Total Portfolio:          11.86     0.00     1.85     1.48     1.86     0.00     1.85     1.48
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                             Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic
1998                GRAMEEN PHONE                      20.00       2.50       0.00       0.00
1998                KHULNA                              0.00       3.30       0.00       0.00
1998                LAFARGE SURMA                      35.00      10.00       0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          55.00      15.80       0.00      0.00
44 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BANGLADESH: Air Quality Management Project
9/8/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South   Low-                       -
Bangladesh       Asia  income       Development dismond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      125.6     1,305     3,515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     350       430       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      44.0       555      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                         1.6       1.8        1.7
Labor force (%)                                        Z9        2.3        1.9     GNP   I                          Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199298)                                capitp enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty lne)    36
Urban population (% of total population)                20        27        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        58        62        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               75         77        69
Child malnutrition (% of chitdren under 5)              56        53                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  84        81        74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    61        49        32
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   ..       100       108                  Banghdesh
Male                                                           109       113                  Low-income group
Female                                                          90       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                            9.5     23.8      41.0      42.3
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                 17.0     19.0      21.6       22.4                    Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP             5.2      5.5      12.4       13.9
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                    11.5    10.4       153        17.3
Gross national savings/GDP                   11.8     12.6      19.4      21.2
Current account balance/GDP                  -1.8     -4.1      -2.2       -1,2     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         0.3      0.6       0.4       0 4             c                     Investment
Total debVGDP                                26.4    42.7       36.9       38.7     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                   27.8     28.0      10.6       9.3
Present value of debVGDP                                        21.1
Present value of debtUexports                                  1301
Indebtedness
1977487  1988-98     1997      1998   1999403
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  5.0      4.7      5.4       5.0       5.5                   Bengsdesh
GNP per capita                       2.6      3.1      3.8       4.2       3.9                 - Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        4.9     14.4     14.5      14.3       9.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investmentt%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         Is
Agriculture                                  37.5     31.3      23,1       22.4
Industry                                     25.0     22.2      27.1      28.2    10
Manufacturing                              18.5      15.2      17.3      18.3
Services                                     37.5     46.5      49.8      49.4
Private consumption                          87.0     86.4      80.1      78.3            93   s4  as   96   97   r1
General govemment consumption                 1.4      3.2       4.6       4.4                -      0l        GDP
Imports of goods and services                10.7    14.1       18.7       1 9.0
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of *xports and Imports 1%)
(average annuafgrowth)
Agriculture                                   3.6      2.6        6.1       3.0    r
Industry                                      4.3      6.9       5.6       8.3    40 
Manufacturing                               2.9      7.0        6.2       9.2
Services                                      6.4      4.7       4.8        4.2     t,
Private consumption                           5.3      4.4        2.4       1.6  o      / 0
General government consumption                5.3      5.9       6.0       -0.3            93   i      95   95   97   as
Gross domestic investment                     4.4      6.0      10.0       11.2    20
Imports of goods and services                 6.6     10.5       2.0       0.6              -Expors          *Imports
Gross national product                        5.2      4.8       5.5        5.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared vwith its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-45 -



Banzladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           to
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..       2.5       7.0
Implicit GDP deflator                          -2.1     11.0       0.9       4.4      9
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                 ..       8.7       9.3       9.7             93    94    95    96    97    se
Current budget balance                          ..        ..       2.2       2.2              -GDP deflator    e CP1
Overall surplus/deficit                              ..           -4.3       -4.2
TRADE
1977     1987      1997       1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   1,074       4,427     5,172     8s.oO
Jutegoods                                      ..      104       116       108
Leather and leather products                   ..     135        196       190      6.000
Manufactures                                   ..     700       3,835     4,615
Total imports (cif)                             ..   2,620       7,120     7,525     4,00
Food                                            ,  413  197  369  2,909.dA M
Fuel and energy                                ..     230        361       295
Capital goods                                  ..     856      2,000     2,072        o
Export price index (1995=100)                   ,,       54        103       111            92   93  94   ss   96   97
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       79        100        98                a Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..      68        103       114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997       1998      Current account balance to GDP ratiol%l
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                  464    1,301      5,083     5,879      o           _         _        _
Imports of goods and services                  932    2,876      7,655     8,049        i
Resource balance                              -469   -1,576      -2,572    -2,170
Net income                                     -31     -122       -107      -100
Net current transfers                          325      731      1,770     1,750
Current account balance                       -174     -966       -909      -520     -4
Financing items (net)                          305    1,169        589       651
Changes in net reserves                       -130     -203        320      -131     *e -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..        ..     1,719     1,739
Conversion rate (DEC, localNUS$)               15.5     30.6      42.7      45.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 1US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         2,518   10.149     15,125    16,354                      G-191
IBRD                                          55       70         38        36                 F: 14     A:36
IDA                                          505    2.985      5.701     6,168
Total debt service                             148      547        705       686         E- 5,02
IBRD                                           3        5          7         7                                     8 6.168
IDA                                            4       35         96       105
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                0      662        736       569
Official creditors                           274      774        326       265
Private creditors                             -1        1        -26       -23
Foreign investment                             0        2       -116       252                D- 4.37           c422
World Bank program
Commitments                                  202      415        460       655      A - IBRD                      E - silateral
Disbursements                                 88      348        299       353      8 - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Privale
Principal repayments                           0        9         59        66      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     88      339       241        308
Interest payments                              7       31         44        46
Net transfers                                 81      308        196       261
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/8/99
-46 -



