                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR0000607




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-34040)




                                      ON A

                      LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION
                        (US$ 4.71 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                        GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH

                                     FOR AN

                    AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                November 23, 2008




Social, Environment and Water Resources Management Unit
Sustainable Development Department
South Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective March 15, 2008)

                   Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
                            Tk. 1.00 = US$ 0.0153
                              US$ 1.00 = Tk. 65



                               FISCAL YEAR
                               July 1 - June 30



                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAQS     Ambient Air Quality Standards
AQ Cell  Air Quality Cell
AQMP     Air Quality Management Project
BRTA     Bangladesh Road Transport Authority
BUET     Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
CAMS     Continuous Air Quality Monitoring stations
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CASE     Clean Air and Sustainable Environment Project
CNG      Compressed Natural Gas
DMP      Dhaka Metropolitan Police
DO       Development Objectives
DOE      Department of Environment
DPP      Development Project Proforma
DUTP     Dhaka Urban Transport Project
FAPAD    Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate
GOB      Government of Bangladesh
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOEF     Ministry of Environment & Forests
NEMAP    National Environment Management Action Plan
I&M      Inspection and Maintenance
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IP       Implementation Progress
ISR      Implementation Status Report
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PD       Project Director
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PMU      Project Management Unit
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SAMS     Satellite Air Quality Monitoring Stations

SIL    Specific Investment Loan
SRO    Special regulatory Order
TA     Technical Assistance
Tk     Taka (Bangladesh Unit of Currency)
US     United States of America
VAT    Value Added Tax
VES    Vehicle Emission Standards



                      Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero

                   Country Director: Xian Zhu

                    Sector Manager: Karin Kemper

                Project Team Leader: Sameer Akbar

                         ICR Team : S. Vaideeswaran and Arun Banerjee

                                         BANGLADESH
                            Air Quality Management Project




                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................6
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome...........................................................8
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance........................................................9
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................11
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........12
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................13
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................14
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................16
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............17
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................19
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................20
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................21
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................31
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Air Quality
Country:                Bangladesh             Project Name:
                                                                      Management Project
Project ID:             P057833                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34040
ICR Date:               11/23/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVT. OF
Lending Instrument:     LIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      BANGLADESH
Original Total
                        XDR 3.6M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 2.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Environment and Forest
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/15/1998    Effectiveness:         09/26/2000         09/26/2000
Appraisal:             10/04/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/25/2000    Mid-term Review:       02/14/2005         04/20/2003
                                     Closing:               12/31/2004         03/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry     Satisfactory


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                         Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             45                 45
Health                                                        55                 55


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Environmental policies and institutions                      Primary           Primary
Municipal governance and institution building               Secondary         Secondary
Other urban development                                      Primary           Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                Primary           Primary
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                      Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:          Isabel M. Guerrero               Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:        Xian Zhu                         Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager:          Karin Erika Kemper               Richard O. Ackermann
Project Team Leader:     Sameer Akbar                     Jitendra J. Shah
ICR Team Leader:         Sameer Akbar
ICR Primary Author:      Arun Banerjee
                         Sankaran Vaideeswaran



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary objective of this LIL was to learn about options and to develop components
of urban air quality management by means of pilot activities and institutional support,
with the ultimate goal of reducing human exposure to vehicular air pollution in a cost-
effective manner. The activities under this LIL focused primarily on Dhaka, with some
components replicated in other cities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable


                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised      Achieved at
                                                approval         Target      Completion or
                                              documents)         Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Reduce urban air pollution and associated health impacts.
                                                                           30% and 40%
                                                                           reduction in PM10
                                           Stabilization in                & 2.5 respectively
                PM10 and PM2.5 levels levels of PM10                       due to removal of
                significantly exceed       and PM2.5 so that               2Stroke 3Wheelers
                proposed standards.        increasing trend is             by Dec 31 2002.
Value           BAEC monitoring results:arrested. With                     This saved approx
quantitative or Urban semi-residential     vehicle population              $25 m per year in
Qualitative)    between Dec 1996 and       growing at more                 health costs. Since
                Jun 1998, PM10 (24 hr) = than 10% every                    2003, the PM levels
                110 ug/m3, PM2.5 (24       year, stabilization             rose again and are
                hr)= 52 ug/m3.             would be an                     almost as high as
                                           achievement.                    pre-December
                                                                           2002, at end of
                                                                           project.
Date achieved 07/01/2000                   12/31/2007                      03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The PM levels would have been worse had the rising trend not been arrested in

achievement)    Dec 2002 due to the removal of 2Stroke 3Wheelers.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                     Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised     Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Strengthen air quality monitoring and evaluation.
                                           CAMS and                        CAMS established
                                           satellite stations              in Dhaka,
                                           developed along                 Chittagong,

                Limited batch sampling     with lab; quality               Rajshahi, and

                data based on unreliable   assured AQ data                 Khulna; AQ data is

Value           equipment and              made publicly                   being made

(quantitative   inadequate laboratory      available                       publicly available

or Qualitative) facilities, and no analysisregularly; source               regularly over the

                / evaluation of air        apportionment                   internet;

                quality.                   using AQMP data;                Preliminary source
                                           improved                        apportionment
                                           understanding of                carried out; Overall,
                                           AQ management                   improved
                                           issues                          understanding of



                                                iii

                                                                           AQM issues within
                                                                           the DOE, GOB &
                                                                           public.
Date achieved 07/01/2000                   12/31/2007                      03/31/2008
Comments       Installation and commissioning of equipment in other selected cities delayed
(incl. %       beyond December 31, 2007. The project was extended till March 31, 2008 and
achievement)   all activities subsequently completed.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived                  DO                      IP                Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     01/22/2001            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.25
  2     06/12/2001            Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                      0.25
  3     12/12/2001           Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                      0.57
  4     06/05/2002            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.71
  5     12/03/2002            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.89
  6     06/01/2003            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.13
  7     12/29/2003            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.57
  8     06/29/2004            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.76
  9     12/23/2004            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.80
  10    06/24/2005            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.95
  11    01/12/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       2.11
  12    06/30/2006            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       2.14
  13    12/29/2006            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       2.44
  14    06/22/2007            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       2.77
  15    12/27/2007            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       3.39



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Rapid vehicular growth in recent years in the metropolitan areas of Bangladesh has been
accompanied by an associated increase in emissions of harmful pollutants. The exposure
of the public to air pollution in Dhaka is estimated to cause 15,000 premature deaths and
several million cases of sickness every year. The poor are particularly vulnerable to air
pollution, due to above-average physical exposure1; furthermore, impoverished children
suffer from additional effects of air pollution due to malnutrition. The National
Environmental Management Action Plan (NEMAP), published in 1996 with Cabinet
approval, identified air pollution in urban areas and along major roads, poor vehicle
maintenance, and poor enforcement mechanisms as major causes of environmental
concern. However, there was little knowledge about the extent of the problem and
essentially no air quality management system in Bangladesh to tackle air pollution. It was
in this context that the Air Quality Management Project (AQMP) was developed as a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL).

The 1998 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bangladesh had identified the reduction
of urban air pollution and its associated health impacts as a key environment and
development issue. The CAS also referred to the degraded level of urban air quality due
to transport-related pollution with a strategy to address various vehicle and fuel-related
options. The AQMP supported these CAS objectives directly. In addition, the AQMP
also supported the overall strategic priority of promoting better public sector
management, particularly in a sector where the public sector role in addressing market
externalities is well established.

The AQMP was also designed to supplement the Dhaka Urban Transport Project (DUTP)
with its environmental objective of reducing air pollution in Dhaka. DUTP was designed
to work with several Government stakeholders such as the Department of Environment
(DOE) and Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA), and other multilateral and
bilateral agencies such as the Asian Development Bank, which was funding a vehicle
inspection and maintenance program that was to be set up in Dhaka and other cities.
AQMP was subsequently made into a separate project with DOE as the implementing
agency.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The primary objective of this LIL was to learn about options and to develop components
of urban air quality management by means of pilot activities and institutional support,
with the ultimate goal of reducing human exposure to vehicular air pollution in a cost-
effective manner. The activities under this LIL focused primarily on Dhaka, with some
components replicated in other cities.


1The nature of occupation and living conditions of the poor, usually render them more exposed to air pollution than
normal; examples include roadside vendors and cycle rickshaw drivers, who are exposed to vehicular emissions
because of the nature of their occupation, and who also often live on the footpaths.




                                                           1

The primary focus was to increase the knowledge base regarding air quality management,
as well as cost-effective control technology and policy options. The key performance
indicators were the following:
·   Collection of rigorous data on major air pollutants;
·   Timely availability to the public of data on air quality and vehicular emissions;
·   Formulation of an air quality management plan;
·   Testing of several control options and analysis of their cost-effectiveness as well as
    social acceptability;
·   Establishing more comprehensive and stringent vehicular emission and fuel
    standards, and lubricant regulations;
·   Improved enforcement of vehicular emission and fuel standards, and regulations
    governing the quantity and quality of lubricants;
·   Increase public awareness and involvement, particularly among the stakeholders; and
·   Greater institutional capacity to implement the air quality management plan in Dhaka.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDOs were not formally revised. As this was a LIL, revision was not relevant as the
project was meant to provide project-based learning through a learning-by-doing
approach and evolve with the progress of implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The primary and direct beneficiary of the AQMP was the DOE, whose capacity to
address air quality management issues was substantively strengthened through this LIL
with a learning-by-doing approach.

Indirectly, and as mentioned in the PAD, the beneficiaries of the AQMP were the
inhabitants of Dhaka, especially those most exposed to vehicular air pollution such as
rickshaw pullers, three-wheeler drivers, pedestrians, commuters, street vendors, and the
poor and malnourished children.

1.5 Original Components
The AQMP consisted of two main components: (i) Vehicle emissions reduction:
enforcement, standards and control (US$ 2.1 m IDA; US$ 0.4 m GOB) and (ii) Air
quality monitoring (US $ 2.6 m IDA; US$ 0.8 m GOB).

For the first component on vehicle emissions reduction, the legal authority and
responsibility for air quality management lies with the DOE in the Ministry of
Environment and Forests (MOEF) while BRTA has the legal authority for enforcement.
As other donor support was available to the BRTA through the IDA-funded DUTP and
ADB-funded inspection stations, the AQMP focused only on the DOE. The project
financed: (i) development of emissions regulations for in-use vehicles; (ii) development
of vehicle emissions and lubricant standard regulations; (iii) pilots for vehicular
emissions control; and (iv) awareness raising campaigns.


                                              2

The second component on air quality monitoring financed, (i) air quality monitors in
Dhaka and three other major cities; (ii) air quality laboratory upgrade; (iii) a number of
studies for examining key issues affecting future strategy for air pollution control in the
country. The data obtained was made available to the public, and all stakeholders were
encouraged to participate in finding solutions to controlling air pollution.

The pilot activities were mainly concerned with vehicular emission reduction. A number
of auto-clinics were held to popularize use of quality lubricant and I&M (inspection and
maintenance) as the means for emission reduction in baby taxis prior to 2003. For diesel
vehicle emission reduction, diesel clinics were held throughout the project period to
promote I&M. Pilot roadside enforcement activities were carried out to penalize gross
polluting vehicles. These activities contributed to vehicular emission reduction.

1.6 Revised Components
The components of the project were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
There were no significant changes in the design and/or implementation arrangements.
However, the disbursed credit amount was finally reduced from US$ 4.71 million to US$
3.66 million due to cancellations in several categories as shown in Annex1.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The background analysis at the time of project preparation was appropriate and sound. A
good part of the analysis done at that time is relevant also today. As the AQMP was the
first project of its kind and to be implemented by the DOE, there were no earlier
operations that were directly relevant to this project. However, there was a parallel
investment project, DUTP, which had been prepared along side. During preparation, it
was ensured that the activities in both DUTP and AQMP were complementary to each
other, while at the same time not overlapping in content.

Although project appraisal was undertaken one month after the PCN review, it took
almost two years for the project to get approved by the Board subsequently. However,
during that time the task team continued to work with the client to further the learning
agenda on the project, by focusing on air quality management workshops, one learning
visit to India, detailed social and technical surveys of vehicle drivers and owners, data
collection, and policy dialog.

The project design was simple in that it had only two components ­ broadly on vehicle
emissions enforcement and air quality monitoring ­ and this made it possible to have
focused implementation in the DOE, which was doing a project of this kind for the very
first time. The AQMP was designated as a LIL after a lot of deliberation at the appraisal
stage in 1998, taking into account that (i) it was a relatively new area of Bank
involvement, (ii) there was an absence of prior knowledge and much learning was needed
and (iii) it was a good way to process a small project and test the client interest and


                                               3

commitment for a larger project subsequently. In all these aspects, the choice seems to
have been appropriate. However, as noted by the task team during Quality-at-Entry
review in 2001, the flexibility that a LIL could offer does not seem to have been fully
available during project preparation. This remained the case during project
implementation. For instance, the project could perhaps have been more flexible in terms
of its design or the procurement methods or allowed more frequent changes as needs
changed. This limitation is also evident from the GOB's approach to the project, which
was identical to a typical investment lending operation which does not allow much
flexibility and any changes that are considered necessary have to go through a long and
protracted process.

The DOE decided to prepare the project implementation plan internally as a learning
experience, so that they also learned about project preparation in some detail. It was a
deliberate decision by the DOE, and while the intentions were good the commitment was
missing. This was the main reason for the delay between appraisal and negotiations. The
Quality-at-Entry observation in this case was that while the Bank strategy to let MOEF
take the lead from the beginning was eventually successful, it resulted in very long delays
before negotiations.

The overall Government commitment was an issue during project preparation, as
evidenced by the various delays during preparation. However, with the progress of
implementation, the Government's commitment improved to some extent. Nevertheless,
it was possible to complete the project only over a 7-year period when it was planned to
be completed within 4 years.

In the assessment of critical risks during project preparation, the possibility that the
growth in a number of new polluting vehicles would overshadow pollution reduction
through enforcement and new-technologies for in-use vehicles was considered a
"negligible risk". In retrospect, this risk appears to have been underestimated as the
growth in new and other polluting vehicles in the later years have resulted in
overshadowing the pollution reduction achieved in the earlier years of the project. In
addition, during project preparation, the risks identification focused on "sustainability"
and did not cover the risks associated with project implementation delays. In hindsight,
DOE's ability to mobilize the necessary manpower and other resources to implement this
project over a 4-year period should have been rated as "high risk".

A Quality-at-Entry assessment was carried out. This is discussed in Section 5.1 under
Bank performance.

2.2 Implementation
The original project design remained valid throughout implementation. There was no
restructuring done or required in the context of a LIL during the mid-term review.
Adequate background analyses carried out to support particular decisions and the
periodic implementation support provided by the Bank were the key positive factors for
the project to work towards achieving its development objectives.




                                               4

The project was negotiated in July 2000 and became effective in September 2000. The
project was virtually at a standstill for 18 months and was rated "unsatisfactory" in
December 2001 for both Development Objectives (DO) and Implementation Progress
(IP). Four specific conditions pertaining to the installation of monitoring equipment and
strengthening and improving project management capacity were laid out. All of these
were met in the ensuing six months and the rating was changed to satisfactory for both
DO and IP. However, that did not guarantee a continued improvement in project
performance during the rest of the implementation period.

The lack of Government commitment and oversight in the early years was a key
challenge. Given that the GOB does not have a concept equivalent to a LIL, the internal
processing requirements were considered the same as for a large specific investment loan
(SIL). The first revision of the GOB's Development Project Proforma (DPP) for the
project took more than two years and impeded implementation progress. The delayed
appointment of the Project Director and staff of the PMU in the beginning was another
example of questionable commitment. In addition, there were interferences from
powerful "interested" parties. For example, the provision of compulsory fitting of
catalytic converters and diesel particulate filters in in-use vehicles through a Statutory
Regulatory Order (SRO 88) was actively pursued by a private company in order to cater
to their commercial interests. Since the implementation of the SRO would have had a
significant negative impact on the development objectives of this project2, initiatives to
review and eventually abandon the SRO 88 had to be undertaken by the AQMP PMU
with Bank support. This diversion / distraction to implementing the project caused delays
in implementation progress. Unilateral change in the Project Director without adhering to
the agreed process of prior consultation with the Bank, and the many changes to the
Director General (DOE) and the Secretary, MOEF, also contributed to delays as each
new incumbent took time to understand, appreciate and support AQMP implementation.
Overall, these were the major causes why the project was unable to complete
implementation within the originally proposed 4-year period.

There was no Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review for supervision carried out for this
project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
In the project design, adequate key performance indicators were identified and an M&E
mechanism against each indicator was provided. During the mid-term review, the status
against the performance indicator was tabulated. As these were integral to each
component / sub-component, monitoring and evaluation covered performance indicators
during the Bank's periodic implementation support mission reports that were prepared
based on the progress made. At the end of project implementation as well, the status vis-
à-vis the performance indicators has been separately compiled and presented. This
provides evidence that performance indicators were utilized as a tool for M&E after the



2Given the poor quality of fuel and old vintage of vehicles in Bangladesh, fitment of catalytic converters and diesel
particulate filters would not lead to sustained reduction in vehicular emissions.




                                                             5

mid-term review. The regular follow-up during project supervision on the performance
indicators assisted in keeping the focus on the development objectives.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


This is a Category `C' project with no safeguard policy implications.

During the implementation period, there have been audit observations in the yearly
reports submitted by the Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate (FAPAD). Of these
only one was found to be material to IDA and this was resolved through tripartite
meetings of the AQMP team, FAPAD, and MOEF. However, at the time of project
closure (March 31, 2008), there were eleven audit objections that were outstanding for
FYs 2002-2005, though none of them were material to IDA. Examples of the nature of
audit observations include non-deposit of money into government exchequer earned from
selling of bid documents, and overstated financial statements. Although reminders have
been given to resolve these eleven audit objections prior to project closure, these are still
pending.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
For AQMP, the DOE had established a PMU. Although belated, the DOE has now
established an Air Quality Cell (AQC) within its institutional setup to sustain the
activities started under the AQMP. The responsibility for the operation and maintenance
of the assets created through the AQMP will be with this Cell. The follow-up CASE
project requested by the GOB is envisaged as providing assistance to the Cell for
developing its capacity and capability for AQM related activities.

GOB also proposed an investment lending operation, Clean Air and Sustainable
Environment (CASE) Project which is presently under preparation and will include
follow-up of AQMP activities. The AQ Cell will have an important role in the
implementation of the proposed CASE project, which will have performance indicators
along with an M&E system in place. To sustain the benefits from the AQMP investments,
the GOB has agreed to provide a budget for the operation & maintenance (particularly,
the different monitoring equipment) under the CASE project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
AQMP has remained a project with high overall relevance to the country's development
priorities and Bank's country strategy. As the circumstances or project context has not
changed significantly, there was high overall relevance of objectives. No restructuring or
design change was required to ensure the relevance. There was consistency between the
objectives and design throughout the implementation period. The development assistance
during implementation remained important to achieving the goals of the country's
development priorities and Bank's country strategies.



3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives


                                             6

The primary project development objective mentioned earlier in Section 1.2 has been
largely achieved which is evidenced by the following: (i) awareness creation on the air
quality issue has been substantive; this has been achieved through training / awareness
sessions and initiatives such as the Air Quality index; today, air quality is clearly
recognized as an important development issue; (ii) facilitated the phase-out and removal
of 2-stroke, 3-wheeler vehicles (removal completed in Dhaka in Dec 31, 2002 under
DUTP) by working on the replacement of the lubricant and engaging in clinics to
facilitate the change; (iii) Ambient Air Quality Standards (AAQS) and Vehicle Emission
Standards (VES) have been gazetted and now provide an enabling framework to
strengthen enforcement; (iv) studies related to diesel emissions carried out under AQMP
provided useful inputs to the formulation of the Strategic Transport Plan; (v) Vehicular
Emission Profiles have been prepared for Dhaka & Chittagong; (vi) air quality
monitoring stations have been established in Dhaka and other selected cities and through
that the experience of collecting, analyzing and reporting of data has been established;
also, the issues associated with the operation and maintenance of monitoring equipment
have been fully understood; (vii) a much better understanding of the types of pollutants
and the most important ones, such as PM 2.5, from a health perspective has been
acquired; and (viii) institutionalization of the Air Quality Cell in the DOE to function as a
single-point coordinating body for the GOB on air quality management issues in the
country.

Annex 2 includes the component-wise outputs that provide further details.

3.3 Efficiency
As AQMP was a LIL, no efficiency assessment was carried out. Nevertheless, it would
be reasonable to presume that the benefits accruing from activities either carried out or
influenced by AQMP ­ particularly the health benefits3 arising out of reduced pollution
in cities - is likely to far outweigh the relatively small cost of the project (US $ 4.71
million).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The achievement of overall project outcomes can be measured by achievement of the
PDOs and their current relevance. Though not successful at stabilizing the level of urban
air quality as originally targeted, the project was successful in reducing the rate at which
air quality had been worsening in Dhaka. This improvement in the trend of worsening
urban air quality is estimated to have resulted in significant health benefits for the urban
population, as mentioned above. Hence, it can be said that AQMP achieved its PDOs and
continues to be relevant to the Bangladesh context, and to the Bank's country assistance
strategy which envisaged a reduction in urban air pollution and improvement in health
impacts. The only shortcoming has been the implementation period which was longer


3Based on World Bank's internal assessments, the approximate per capita health cost saving was estimated
at $3 per year for the pollution reduction due to auto-rickshaw removal in Dhaka in January 2003. The total
saving for the city was thus approximately around $25 million per year. However, this saving can be
partially attributed to this project as it generated support for the action through project activities.




                                                        7

than was originally envisaged. However, considering that the project is a LIL, in a
relatively new and highly technical field where the availability of trained manpower
locally is relatively scarce and their retention even more difficult, that it was the first
project for the DOE with a multilateral agency and that the GOB's procedures can often
be cumbersome, the overall outcome rating is satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Given that the poor are particularly vulnerable to the impacts of urban air pollution, by
meeting its PDOs the project also contributed to reducing the exposure and vulnerability
of the poor to urban air pollution and associated health impacts.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Although institutional change / strengthening was not a PDO, it was recognized early-on
that the benefits that would accrue from institutional strengthening would be substantial
in the long-term. As a result, the AQMP focused on institutionalizing AQM in the DOE
and after the culmination of the project it resulted in the establishment of the AQ Cell at
the DOE. The organizational structure of the AQC has been worked out with support
from an international consultant, and it is meant to be the nucleus of all AQM related
activities at the DOE.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not conducted since this document is not an Intensive Learning ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
As a result of the project activities, the societal awareness on air quality issues has
increased manifold. The media covers these issues regularly. Air quality is universally
recognized and accepted as a critical urban development issue. Given the seriousness of
the air quality problem, these development outcomes will be sustained. However, there is
a chance that the air quality management activities are not viewed as important as they
should be in the context of Bangladesh's other pressing development problems. There
appears to be a need from outside the GOB to constantly emphasize the importance of
this issue and to give the attention that this development topic deserves. Taking all of this
into account, the risk is viewed as "moderate".

There were specific development outcomes such as significant air pollution reduction
through the removal of 2-stroke engines in Dhaka that were facilitated during the project
implementation period. While the risks of the successes of air pollution reduction being
taken away by other forms of pollutants are high, it is not appropriate to expect a small
LIL operation to have put in place risk mitigation measures that will prevent such erosion
of development gains. Therefore, this has not been considered during the rating of risk.




                                                8

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
There was a quality at entry assessment done by a team of peer reviewers during project
preparation. At that time, AQMP preparation was rated as satisfactory. The minor
shortcomings were in relation to (i) defining upfront on how a LIL was different from a
usual investment lending operation and ensuring agreements with the GOB / DOE on
how this LIL will be implemented, and (ii) defining implementation risks, particularly in
the context of organizational capacity within the DOE, to implement this project within a
4-year period and to take management measures from the very outset.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The AQMP supervision was regular and focused. An average of thirteen staff weeks were
spent between FY01 and FY07 on project supervision, including missions. In-country
staff played a pivotal role in engaging with the client on a regular basis and ensuring that
the focus on development impacts and outcomes was retained. Though a LIL, the Bank's
supervision was akin to what is usually done for investment lending operation. As a result
it demanded significant budget for a small project.

In spite of rigorous supervision the project had to be extended on three occasions. The
task team could have done a better job at anticipating the delays and taken measures to
avoid processing three extensions. Other shortcomings were in relation to (i) managing
project closure, particularly the final three-month partial extension, which could have
been better managed through more detailed oversight; (ii) raising issues related to the
arrangements that will be required for ensuring the sustainability of the AQMP activities
such as the interim funding / budget provisions plans prior to the establishment of the Air
Quality Cell in the DOE; and (iii) pending audit objections that are still outstanding with
the GOB, though considered immaterial to the Bank.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Satisfactory Bank performance was confirmed by peer reviewers at entry. Given the
complexity and novelty of the project, the Bank also supervised the project intensively
with the right mix of specialists. In spite of the inevitable delays due to borrower
performance, the project was implemented by the Bank task team in a satisfactory
manner. The DOs were achieved, but not in the time frame envisaged at the start of the
project. However, major policy decisions were influenced by the project, such as the new
and revised vehicular emissions standards and ambient air quality standards, and a
foundation was laid for sustaining AQM initiatives within the GOB through the creation
of the AQ Cell at the DOE. The fact that the project generated sufficient interest and
awareness for the GOB to request the follow-on CASE project is indicative of its overall
success.

5.2 Borrower Performance



                                                9

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Government ownership, commitment and involvement were uneven during the course of
project implementation. The remarkable success in the removal of two-stroke three-
wheelers from Dhaka that was facilitated in coordination with DUTP was a landmark
achievement of the Government. It was a good example that a strong political
commitment could achieve a significant result. However, the lack of commensurate
measures from the Government to reduce polluting diesel buses that eroded the air
quality improvement has to be noted in the context of this achievement. The Government
ensured broad oversight of the implementation progress and implementation issues,
however resolution of key issues, such as the appointment of a qualified and competent
project director, was often delayed. The other shortcomings were, (i) initial delay of
almost two years between appraisal and negotiations, (ii) delays due to small project
design changes and smooth, effective and quick resolution of the same, (iii) the problems
related to interference from "vested interests" and sub-optimal technical decisions (i.e.
SRO88), (iv) the resolution of pending / outstanding audit objections, though not material
to IDA, and (v) in making advance arrangements for ensuring the sustainability of the
AQMP through the establishment of the Air Quality Cell prior to its closing.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall, the DOE / MOEF's performance was reasonable although there were serious
lapses in the early stages of project implementation when project management was
particularly weak. That resulted in delaying the achievement of the development
objectives. After the initial delays, the DOE / MOEF's performance improved with time
and in particular was particularly good under the tenure of the last Project Director.
Implementation progress vis-à-vis both the project components were being monitored and
implementation issues were resolved in a timely manner. The minor shortcomings were
(i) in ensuring the project closure within the second extension period particularly
considering that a 7-year period was given to a 4-year project, (ii) the lack of capacity to
utilize all the funds (SDR 0.78 million was finally cancelled) that were available in this
small project, (iii) the lack of adequate in-house capacity on procurement and contract
management, (iv) the failure to resolve pending audit objections; and (v) in making
advance arrangements required for ensuring sustainability of AQMP activities such as the
establishment of the Air Quality Cell prior to project closing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Given the significant delays early-on in project preparation / implementation, the overall
performance has been moderately satisfactory. However, considering that the project is
in a highly technical area in which the Government had limited capacity, the borrower
deserves credit for raising awareness of air pollution issues both within the Government,
the general public and the media. It is worth noting that the borrower took the concrete
step of removing the polluting 2Stroke three wheelers, and promulgating new and revised
standards for vehicular emissions and ambient air quality. Through the creation of the Air
Quality Cell at the DOE, the borrower has created a sustainable mechanism for taking
actions and initiatives for AQM. Successfully responding to public expectations will be



                                              10

the ultimate measure of the Borrowers performance. Foundation has been laid under the
project for the Government to meet this challenge.

6. Lessons Learned
The following are the lessons learned:
·   The issues of air quality or clean air are cross-cutting and management targets are
    well beyond the capacity of a single implementing agency of the Government to
    achieve. Therefore, an alternative project design would have been to take a multi-
    sectoral and multi-organizational approach. Needless to say, working with multiple
    sectors and multiple agencies creates complexities that are difficult to deal with. In
    the current institutional framework in Bangladesh, this complexity has to be faced.
·   The AQMP has several good achievements that go much beyond what is expected of
    a LIL. The sustainability of some achievements (e.g. the introduction of ambient and
    vehicular emissions standards) is certain, whereas the sustainability of others (e.g.
    operation and maintenance of the air quality monitoring equipment using DOE's own
    funds) will only become clear in the future. In the follow-on project, the
    achievements should be analyzed to determine which of those require more support /
    assistance from a sustainability perspective and these should be appropriately
    integrated with the project design. In addition, the follow-on project needs to have a
    strategy of integrating the project experience within the institutional framework on an
    on-going, continuous basis as against towards the end of project implementation. This
    will be vital to ensure the sustainability of the follow-on project's development
    outcomes.
·   Investments made in monitoring equipment in AQMP witnessed problems /
    constraints vis-à-vis maintenance even during the project period. These were due to
    the lack of technical service capacities in Bangladesh to resolve these maintenance
    issues. Dependence on overseas companies for maintenance services is a problem as
    suppliers find it expensive to maintain field service personnel for a small number of
    installations. An alternative would be to impart the skills to local agencies, which
    have the basic background to provide maintenance for such equipment. Specifically,
    there are two important lessons for the follow-on project. First, investments in
    equipment should be made only after doing a due-diligence on DOE's capacity to
    operate and maintain such equipment. The cost-benefit of purchasing sophisticated
    monitoring equipment has to be compared with possible alternatives, more
    appropriate approaches prior to decision-making. Second, for effective and sustained
    use of equipment purchased under a project, it is imperative that financial and
    technical arrangements are made for their maintenance for a reasonable timeframe
    taking into account the possible equipment life. In the follow-on project, these aspects
    provide alternatives that need to be considered and built into project design.
·   Having an enforcement framework to bring about societal awareness is quite different
    from introducing an enforcement framework as an effective tool for improving air
    quality. Under the AQMP, the former appears to have been done. There appears a lot
    more ground to be covered for effectively achieving the latter. In the follow-on
    project, this needs to be considered and built into project design.




                                               11

·   A project initially planned to be completed in 4 years was carried out over a 7-year
    period. In the initial phase, the project management capacity dedicated for the project
    within the DOE was weak. This was the main reason for the delay. In addition,
    procedures for project implementation in the GOB context are time-consuming and
    there were certain implementation lapses as well. All of these led to the extended
    project implementation period. In the follow-on project, sufficient attention needs to
    be paid to assessing the management capacity - technical, procurement, financial and
    project management matters ­ within the DOE and plan for its augmentation from the
    very start of the project period. Though a multi-sectoral and a multi-organizational
    approach is required, adequate care should be taken to clearly define the various
    procurement packages with the different implementing agencies and to keep the
    number of procurements within manageable limits. The milestones should be realistic
    and less ambitious.
·   For development projects that have a strong technical orientation such as AQMP, it is
    important to have the right Project Director. As compared to a civil servant, the
    alternative of a project director with appropriate technical background needed to be
    considered early. Co-ordination within a technically oriented PMU and with the
    various agencies / organizations / consultants becomes much easier with a technically
    competent person at the helm.
·   The Bank's Task team has focused on institutional strengthening for AQM at the
    DOE, in particular the creation of the Air Quality Cell, over a prolonged period
    during AQMP implementation. This was considered necessary to ensure
    sustainability of the efforts / investments made under the project. While initial
    success has been achieved, more needs to be done as part of the overall reform and
    strengthening of the DOE. Given that the sustainability of all investments will partly
    or fully depend on this institutional strengthening, the follow-on project should
    continue this engagement actively.
·   AQMP was the only LIL in the Bangladesh portfolio. The overall lesson is that there
    is no comparative advantage of the alternative of a LIL over a SIL in Bangladesh
    unless GOB can ensure that the flexibility offered by a LIL can be made use of.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

See Annex 7 for a borrower's project completion report




                                              12

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                               Estimate (USD
                                 (USD millions)                           Appraisal
                                                      millions)
VEHICLE EMISSIONS
REDUCTION:
                                                           1.28
ENFORCEMENT,                             2.50                              51.2%
STANDARDS AND PILOT
CONTROL
AIR QUALITY MONITORING
                                         3.40              3.23            95.0%
AND EVALUATION


            Total Baseline Cost            5.90              4.51           76.4%
Physical Contingencies                     NA                NA              NA
Price Contingencies                        NA                NA              NA
             Total Project Costs           5.90              4.51           76.4%
Project Preparation Fund                   NA                NA              NA
Front-end fee IBRD                         NA                NA              NA
     Total Financing Required              5.90              4.51           76.4%



(b) Financing
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                                Appraisal
                                  Type of                     Estimate     Percentage of
        Source of Funds                         Estimate
                                Cofinancing                     (USD        Appraisal
                                              (USD millions)
                                                              millions)
Borrower                                          1.22           0.85         69.7%
International Development
                                                  4.71           3.66         77.7%
Association (IDA)
Note: the US$ exchange rate at appraisal was BDT 48. A current / latest exchange rate is
BDT 65.




                                           13

Annex 2. Outputs by Component



 No     Activity                                           Time Frame           Comments / Outcome
 Component A4: Vehicle Emissions Reduction
 1.     Workshop on AQM in Dhaka to better                 April    26-27,      Well     attended,     summary
        understand sources, issues, etc. (WB and           1998                 findings well publicized
        DoE Sponsored)
 2.     Survey of public opinion done by WB on             1998                 Good public support found
        vehicular emission reduction
 3.     Inclusion of the Baby Taxi phase-out by            January, 1999        Bold step which kept the
        1st Jan., 2003 in DUTP as a legal covenant         and     approx.      pressure    on   MoC,    BRTA,
        and follow up during missions                      every        six     DTCB and the WB
                                                           months after
                                                           that
 4.     Constitution of Air quality Advisory               February,            Good     initiative.  Did     not
        Committee                                          1999                 function to expectations.
 5.     Introduction of unleaded Gasoline                  1st July, 1999       First such action in South Asia.
                                                                                Result of Bank's engagement
                                                                                with Energy Ministry
 6.     Increase in supplementary tax for two-             July, 1999           Key step to stop import
        stroke baby taxis to 200%
 7.     Training for Baby Taxi Mechanics                   April, 2000          427 Mechanics Trained (with
                                                                                ESMAP support)
 8.     Auto-clinics for baby taxis                        Oct. ­Nov.,          1000 Units and their drivers
                                                           2000                 involved      (with     ESMAP
                                                                                support)
 9.     Seminar on Lube oil and Gasoline Quality           Nov.,21,             Sponsored by ESMAP, WB and
        for Air Quality Improvement                        2000                 MoEMR
 10.    Revision of lube oil standards                     1st    January,      Major step taken by BPC
                                                           2001
 11.    BRTA bans all two-stroke three-wheelers            May 24, 2001         Not enforced successfully
        registered before January 1, 1993.
 12.    Introduction of quality 2T lube oil in 60ml        Oct. 29, 2001        Was followed by BP-Meghna
        sachets by Mobil-Jamuna                                                 soon after
 13.    Two stroke three wheelers report                   January, 2002        Gets wide coverage (ESMAP
                                                                                supported)
 14.    Short Film (6 minutes) on two stroke               February,            Aired by BTV and private
        clinics and Air Pollution                          2002                 channels    4   times   in  total
                                                                                (ESMAP supported)
 15.    AQMP Auto-clinic                                   Dec., 2001 ­         2000 Units and their drivers
                                                           March, 2002          involved
 16.    Phase-out deadline revised from 1st Jan.,          February,            Discussed     during   mid-term
        2003 to 1st Jan.,2005 as original date             2002                 review of DUTP, and AQMP
        considered impractical.                                                 supervision.
 17.    High Court (HC) directs government to              March        27,     Public Interest litigation by
        phase out all two-stroke vehicles plying           2002                 BELA       (Bangladesh      Env.


4Though items 1-9 are pre-board they are included here because during this period the Bank's engagement was as a
"knowledge bank", while the GOB was working to meet the conditions of project negotiations.




                                                        14

     the city roads by December 2002                               Lawyers Association)


 18. Ministry of Communication announces           April, 2002     Minister (MoC) takes up the
     phase-out by 1st Sept.,2002.                                  initiative at the
                                                                   Request of the Ministry of
                                                                   Environment.
 19. Decrease in Tax for four stroke CNG           July, 2002      Critical   step    to  encourage
     baby-taxis (Supplementary duty reduced                        import
     to 10% )
 20. Press articles on the two stroke pollution    Continuous      Strong support from press
 21. MoC revises phase-out to two steps 1st        August, 2002    Negotiations        with     the
     Sept., 2002 (pre 1995) and final 1st Jan.,                    stakeholders by the Minister
     2003
 22. First step of phase-out executed and 3-       1st      Sept., Air is cleaner and good public
     wheelers go on 3-day strike                   2002            support for phase-out
 23. DTAC (Departmental Technical Advisory         October,        Providing technical input on a
     Committee)      for    AQM       constituted  2002            regular basis
     consisting     of      professionals    and
     stakeholder representative
 24. 2nd Phase of baby taxi ban executed.          1st Jan., 2003  Good public support but quite
     Social impact partially addressed                             serious transport dislocation.
                                                                   Air is cleaner5. However, no
                                                                   major public backlash. The
                                                                   health benefits of this policy
                                                                   decision are estimated at US$25
                                                                   million per year for Dhaka.
 25. Diesel clinic undertaken in collaboration     January,        Importance of I&M for diesel
     with BRTC and BRTA.                           2004.           vehicle     emission   reduction
                                                                   demonstrated.
 26. GOB agrees to cancel SRO-88 [aimed at         Effective date  A     good      step.  Although
     making fitment of catalytic converter (for    June 30,2005    effectively implemented, the
     gasoline)and    DPF      (diesel   vehicles)                  order is yet to be formally
     compulsory for all vehicles] as part of                       cancelled.
     agreement with the Bank under DSC-II.
 27. Ambient Air Quality standards and             July, 2005      Major       knowledge     based
     Vehicle Emission Standards ( new and                          decisions made in a transparent
     in-use) revised                                               process
 28. Diesel Vehicle Policy Options Study           2006            Study      completed.     Diesel
                                                                   vehicle emission control is to be
                                                                   tackled in the CASE Project.
 29. Diesel engine maintenance improvement         2006            Inaugurated on 19th June 2006
     clinic for 420 drivers and mechanics in
     Dhaka city.
 30. Investigation of Economic Issues relating     2006            The inputs from this report will
     to the maintenance and operation of diesel                    be utilized in the reduction of
     buses and trucks in Dhaka city                                vehicular emission in Dhaka
                                                                   city
 31. Study on Bus Route rationalization and        2007            Study                completed.


5




                                                 15

      route franchising as a means to reduce the               Recommendation to be used in
      contribution of vehicular emissions to                   CASE project implementation
      Dhaka air pollution                                      for     vehicular      emission
      (Part-1: Public Transport Survey)                        reduction.
32    Study on CNG infrastructure requirements    2007         Study                completed.
      in Dhaka for the Bus Sector                              Recommendation to be used in
                                                               CASE project implementation
                                                               for     vehicular      emission
                                                               reduction.


B. Component ­ Air Quality Monitoring
33.   Continuous     Air   Monitoring    Station  April, 2002  A major milestone in AQ
      (CAMS) in Dhaka becomes operational                      Monitoring
34.   Civil Works for AQMP Office completed       December,    AQMP provided with adequate
                                                  2004         office and laboratory space
35.   Extended     Air   Monitoring     Program   2004         Procurement of equipment under
      undertaken                                               process
36.   Chittagong CAM procurement processing       2005         Procurement     of    equipment
      starts                                                   under process
37.   Chittagong CAMS Operational                 2006         Inaugurated in October, 2006
38.   Air Quality Index (AQI) Approved by the     2007         Published    in   the    AQMP
      MoEF                                                     website.
39.   Additional CAMS for Khulna, Rajshahi        2007         These    CAMS      were     made
      and Dhaka (Farm Gate)                                    operational    before     project
                                                               closing on March 31, 2008
40    Air quality of divisional cities including  2007         With    dichotomous    and    air
      Narayangonj is being monitored                           matrix samplers.
41.   AQ impact, Techno-economic studies of       2007         Study completed.
      Brick Kilns in North Dhaka.                              Recommendations to be
                                                               implemented under CASE
                                                               project.
42.   Action Plans for Air Quality Management     2007         Study completed.
      in Khulna and Rajshahi Cities                            Recommendations to be
                                                               implemented under CASE
                                                               project.
43   Source Apportionment study of Chittagong 2007             Study completed.
     City                                                      Recommendation to be used in
                                                               CASE project implementation
                                                               for vehicular emission
                                                               reduction.
44   A good number of publications already been 2007           Publication   were    distributed
     brought out and distributed to various                    among stakeholders..
     stakeholders. Following new publications
     were made a short time prior to closing date
     for the project.
     a) Vehicular Emission profile of Chittagong
     city.
     b) Vehicular Emission profile of Dhaka city
     (part-II).
     b) Air Quality Monitoring report (2003-
     2005)


Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


                                                16

Not applicable as it is a Learning and Innovation Loan.

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                    Responsibility/
            Names                                 Title                    Unit
                                                                                        Specialty

Sameer Akbar                    Task Team Leader                         SASDI Env. Spec.
Burhanuddin Ahmed               Sr Financial Management Specia           SARFM Fin. Mgmt.
M. Aminul Haque                 Consultant                               SARPS Procurement
Tanvir Hossain                  Procurement Analyst                      SARPS Procurement
Dr. M. Khaliquzzaman            Consultant                               SASDI Env. Spec.
Kseniya Lvovsky                 Lead Environmental Economist              ENV     Env. Spec.
Jitendra J. Shah                Country Sector Coordinator               EASRE Env. Spec.
Razia N. Sultana                Program Assistant                        SACBD Program Assistant
Masami Kojima                   Lead Energy Specialist                   COCPO Oil and Gas
Paul J Martin                   Sr Environmental Specialist              AFTEN Env. Spec.
John Rogers                     Consultant                               ETWES Vehicle I&M
A.S.M. Bashirul Huq             Consultant                               SASEG Oil and Gas
M. Mozammal Hoque               Sr Financial Management Specialist OPCFM Fin. Mgmt.
M. Sayeed                       Consultant                               SASDA Fin. Mgmt.
Suraiya Zannath                 Sr Financial Management Specialist SARFM Fin. Mgmt.
Debabrata Chakraborti           Sr Procurement Specialist                SARPS Procurement
                                Regional Environmental and
Warren Waters                                                            AFTQK Social Dev.
                                Safeguards Cooridnator
I. U. B. Reddy                  Sr Social Development Specialist         SASDI Social Dev.
S. Vaideeswaran                 Consultant                               SASDI ICR
Arun Banerjee                   Consultant                               SASDI ICR

                         6
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                   USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY98                                                                                5.00
   FY99                                                                             102.56
   FY00                                                28                             60.93
   FY01                                                 3                              8.01
   FY02                                                 1                              2.05
   FY03                                                 1                              1.15
   FY04                                                                                0.39


6
  Approximately six weeks of staff time during project supervision (FY01 onwards) was erroneously
posted under lending.




                                                   17

 FY05                          1     1.19
 FY06                                0.00
 FY07                                0.00

                   Total:     34    181.28
Supervision/ICR
 FY01                         13    43.53
 FY02                         13    57.12
 FY03                         14    66.66
 FY04                         13    43.14
 FY05                         15    46.37
 FY06                         16    57.79
 FY07                          6    81.44

                   Total:     90    396.05




                            18

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not conducted, as the project is a Learning and Innovation Loan.




                                            19

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not conducted, as the project is a Learning and Innovation Loan.




                                            20

Annex 7. Summary7 of Borrower's Project Completion Report (PCR)

Project title

Air Quality Management Project

Administrative Ministry/ Division

Ministry of Environment and Forests

Executing Agency

Department of Environment

Project Objective

The primary objective of this project was to develop components of an air quality
management system to reduce human exposure to vehicular air pollution in Dhaka. The
program expected to be extended to Chittagong Khulna and Rajshahi during the later
years of the project.

Project components

Component-1: Enforcement, Standards, and Pilot Control Programs ($ 1.73 million):
This component, which is essential to the long-term success of emissions reduction
measures, will include: (i) enforcement of emissions regulations for in-use vehicles; (ii)
development of fuels standards (petrol and lubrication oil) and vehicle emissions
standards; and (iii) pilots for vehicular pollution control.

Component-2: Air Quality Monitoring and Evaluation ($2.55 million): This component
will generate essential air quality information and evaluate pilot activities listed above. It
will include: (i) air quality monitoring in Dhaka; (ii) awareness raising campaigns; and
(iii) air quality management assessment and strategy formulation.




7This summary (November 2008) is prepared by the Task Team in line with the Bank's
guideline. This is a condensed version of the 40-page document submitted by the
Government of Bangladesh.



                                              21

Project Achievements

Objectives                  Actual achievement                                           Reasons for shortfall, if any
(a) Enforcement of          1)A number of roadside in-use vehicle emission
    emissions               programme conducted in Dhaka and Chittagong. More
    regulations for in-     than 6,000 in use vehicles ware tested during the project
    use vehicles            period.
                            2)Mobile courts were held against smoky vehicles for         2) Drive against smoky vehicles
                            enforcement of newly developed vehicular emission            could not be conducted on a
                            standards with cooperation of Dhaka Metropolitan             regular basis because of non-
                            Magistracy and DMP.                                          availability of magistrates. This
                                                                                         could be effective had there
                                                                                         been any permanent magistrate
                                                                                         in the DOE set up.

(b) Pilots for vehicular    Several auto-clinics and diesel clinics have been
    pollution control       conducted under the project to train the derivers
                            and mechanics on better inspection and
                            maintenance of the vehicles

(c) Establishment of Air    5 continuous air monitoring station (CAMS) and
    Quality Monitoring      6 satellite air monitoring stations have been
    Network (AQMN)          established in Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulna and
    for criteria pollutants Rajshahi to monitor the ambient air quality.
    in Dhaka and other
    major cities
(d) Development of new      New national air quality standard and vehicular
    national ambient air    emission standard have been approved and
    quality standard,       gazetted on 19 July 2005. Fuel and lubrication
    vehicular emission      oil standard has also been revised.
    standards and fuels
    standards (petrol and
    lubrication oil)
(e) Capacity                Training programme (both home and abroad) on
    development in the      data analysis and interpretation undertaken to
    DoE to evaluate the     develop capacity in the DoE. Monthly reports
    data obtained from      and daily air quality index in now published in
    the monitoring          the AQMP website for public use.
    network
(f) Development of          Training programme on operation and
    technical capacity in   maintenance of the air monitoring network
    operation and           undertaken (both on site and abroad) for
    maintenance of          improving the technical capacity of the relevant
    monitoring network      personnel.

(g) Awareness Raising       During auto-clinics and diesel clinics as well as   This could not be done on a regular basis
    Campaigns               in different consultative meetings hazardous        as the Public Information Officer quit the
    · Educate the public    impact of air pollution have been introduces        job because of poor salary.

      as well as drivers    before the drivers, vehicles owner and

      and vehicle           mechanics through lectures, brochures, leaflets

      owners regarding      etc.

      the seriousness of
      the air pollution
      problem




                                                     22

Objectives                Actual achievement                                   Reasons for shortfall, if any
    · Workshops on the
      vehicle inspection
      program and the     Consultative meetings/ workshops have been
      standards for       organized on the improved vehicles inspection
      vehicle emissions,  and maintenance programme, the new national
      lubricating oil and ambient air quality standards and vehicular
      fuels               emission standards, Fuel and lube oil standards.
                          The meeting/workshops were attended by
                          experts, professionals, govt. officials,
                          representatives of the civil society, media
                          personnel, representatives from donor agencies.
    · Broadcasts and
      displays of daily   Daily air quality index is published in the
      pollution           AQMP website (www.aqmpbd.org)
      advisories in
      prominent
      locations and by
      the media

(h) Emissions Inventory   Emission Inventory on brick kilns on the
    and Source            northern clusters of Dhaka City has been
    Assessment            developed by BUET through small study
                          programme. Source apportionment of
                          Chittagong city has been conducted by BAEC
                          under separate small study programme. Air
                          pollution source apportionment of Dhaka and
                          Rajshahi city is conducted also by BAEC
                          through their own research programme.

(i) Support small         7 small research studies has been funded under
    research studies for  the project:
    participation of      ·    Study on air quality impact assessment of
    universities,              north Dhaka brickfield emission by
    government                 modeling and suggestions for mitigation
    institutions and           measures including financial modeling
    private research      ·    Bus route rationalization and route
    organizations to           franchising as a means to reduce the
    support control            contribution of vehicle emission to Dhaka
    programs and policy        air pollution: Public transport survey and
    decisions on air           route mapping for Dhaka
    pollution             ·    Study of CNG infrastructure requirements
                               in Dhaka City for bus sector
                          ·    Source apportionment by receptor
                               modeling and framing action plan fro
                               Chittagong air quality monitoring
                          ·    Action plans for air quality monitoring in
                               Khulna and Rajshahi City
                          ·    Investigation of economic issues relating to
                               operation of diesel buses and trucks in
                               Dhaka
                          ·    Study on policy options for addressing
                               emissions from gross polluting diesel
                               vehicles




                                                   23

Chronology of important events

No.  Activity                                                    Time Frame     Comments / Outcome
 1.  AQMP Auto-clinic                                            Dec., 2001 ­   2000 Units and their drivers
                                                                 March, 2002    involved
 2.  Phase-out deadline revised from 1st Jan., 2003 to 1st        February,     Midterm review of DUTP.
     January 2005 as original date considered impractical.            2002
 3.  MOEF issues SRO-29 making fitment catalytic                   February     A highly non-transparent and
     converter (for gasoline) and DPF (diesel vehicles)             16,2002     technically unsound decision.
     compulsory for all vehicles before yearly fitness test.                    Introduces     large  financial
                                                                                liability  with    no  benefit.
                                                                                Bank takes up the matter with
                                                                                MOEF.
 4.  Continuous Air Monitoring Station (CAMS) in Dhaka           April, 2002    A major milestone in AQ
     becomes operational                                                        Monitoring
 5.  Ministry of Communication announces phase-out by            April, 2002    Minister (MoC) takes up the
     1st Sept.,2002.                                                            initiative at the
                                                                                Request of the Ministry of
                                                                                Environment.
 6.  Decrease in Tax for four stroke CNG baby-taxis               July, 2002    Critical step to encourage
     (Supplementary duty reduced to 10% )                                       import
 7.  DTAC        (Departmental         Technical     Advisory      October,     Providing technical input on
     Committee) constituted consisting of professionals               2002      a regular basis
     and stakeholder representative
 8.  2nd Phase of baby taxi ban executed. Social impact          1st Jan., 2003 Good public support but quite
     partially addressed                                                        serious transport dislocation.
                                                                                Air is cleaner.
 9.  MOEF modifies SRO-29 to SRO-88 making fitment                March 31,     Changes       done    due    to
     catalytic converter (for gasoline)and DPF (diesel vehicles)      2003      resistance      from      other
     compulsory for all vehicles after fitness test.                            ministries and stakeholders
 10. Diesel clinic undertaken in collaboration with BRTC            January,    Importance I&M for diesel
     and BRTA.                                                       2004.      vehicle emission reduction
                                                                                demonstrated.
 11. Civil Works for AQMP Office completed                        December,     AQMP          provided    with
                                                                      2004      adequate        office     and
                                                                                laboratory space
 12. Extended Monitoring Program undertaken                           2004      Procurement      of  equipment
                                                                                under process
 13. Chittagong CAM procurement processing Starts                     2005      Procurement of equipment
                                                                                under process
 14. Ambient Air Quality standards and VES (new and in-           July, 2005    Major      knowledge     based
     use) revised                                                               decisions      made     in    a
                                                                                transparent process
 15. Diesel Vehicle Policy Options Study                              2006      Study     completed.     Diesel
                                                                                vehicle emission control is to
                                                                                be tackled in the CASE
                                                                                Project.
 16. Chittagong CAMS Operational                                      2006      Inaugurated in October, 2006
 17. Diesel engine maintenance improvement clinic for                 2006      Inaugurated on 19th June
     420 drivers and mechanics in Dhaka city.                                   2006
 18. Investigation of Economic Issues relating to the                 2006      The inputs from this report



                                                    24

        maintenance and operation of diesel buses and trucks              will   be  utilized  in  the
        in Dhaka city                                                     reduction    of    vehicular
                                                                          emission in Dhaka city
  19. Air Quality Index (AQI) Approved by the MoEF                2007    Being    published   in  the
                                                                          AQMP       website.   Actual
                                                                          release of the AQI to the
                                                                          media will begin from 1st
                                                                          December 2007.
  20. Additional CAMS for Khulna, Rajshahi and Dhaka              2007    In the process of being
        (Farm Gate)                                                       established   and    to   be
                                                                          completed by the end March
                                                                          2007
  21. Air quality of divisional cities including Narayangonj      2007    Continuous
        is being monitored with dichotomous and air matrix
        samplers.
  22. AQ impact, Techno-economic studies of Brick Kilns           2007    Study             completed.
        in North Dhaka.                                                   Recommendations      to   be
                                                                          implemented under CASE
                                                                          project.
  23. Action Plans for Air Quality Management in Khulna           2007    Study completed.
        and Rajshahi Cities
  24. Study on Bus Route rationalization and route franchising    2007    Study             completed.
      as a means to reduce the contribution of vehicular                  Recommendation to be used
      emissions to Dhaka air pollution                                    in       CASE         project
      (Part-1: Public Transport Survey)                                   implementation for vehicular
                                                                          emission reduction.
  25. Study on CNG infrastructure requirements in Dhaka for       2007    Study             completed.
      the Bus Sector                                                      Recommendation to be used
                                                                          in       CASE         project
                                                                          implementation for vehicular
                                                                          emission reduction.
  26. Source Apportionment study of Chittagong City               2007    Study completed.
  27. A good number of publications already been brought out      2007    The reports will be the basis
      and distributed to various stakeholders. Following are the          of good repository of air
      significant ones:                                                   pollution and emission data
        a)  Reports on Roadside vehicular emission testing                of Dhaka and Chittagong
            programme in Dhaka                                            City.
        b) Roadside vehicular emission testing programme in
            Chittagong.
        c)  Air Quality Monitoring report (2003-2007)
        d) Leaflets on Air Quality Index



Lessons Learned

Importance of public support in Environmental Policy Implementation: It has been
shown that important environment related decision with large social implications can be
executed with public support. After detailed discussions, workshops, studies and debates,
the Bangladesh Government phased lead out of gasoline entirely beginning July 1999. This
was a landmark decision, since most other countries have taken much longer for gasoline
lead elimination. In the area of lubricant use, a notification allowing only the sale of
lubricants manufactured for use in motor vehicles was issued in January 2001, only two



                                                    25

months after a workshop making this recommendation. The other landmark decision was
the removal of baby taxis from Dhaka on 1st January, 2003. The room for such major
actions had to be created through careful awareness program through stakeholder
interactions.

Importance of working with stakeholders: The importance of working with
stakeholders was stressed from the beginning, and this paid off. During project
preparation, a stakeholder delegation was sent to India to observe how central and local
governments in India are tackling urban air pollution, and to discuss options for
mitigating transport emissions. The three wheeler associations (owners and drivers) have
been involved from the outset, and as a result have not protested against some very tough
policy measures (such as a steep rise in special import duties to 200 percent). Similarly, a
very transparent and participatory process was followed for the development of Ambient
Air Quality Standards (AAQS) and Vehicle Emission Standards (VES). Staff papers on
the subjects were prepared by the project with details of background information and
these underwent technical review by experts. These were then discussed with stakeholder
in several phases. The revised documents were reviewed by inter-ministerial committee
and also by the parliamentary committee before these were promulgated as rules.

Importance of a proper technical diagnosis of the problem: It was difficult to
understand why a non-industrial city like Dhaka, with flat terrain, 300,000 vehicles, and
not much pronounced biomass burning, could be so heavily polluted. During project
preparation, the cause was found in that many of the 50,000 two-stroke engine three
wheelers in Dhaka are: (a) using more than double the quantity of lubricant
recommended by vehicle manufacturers, and (b) using straight mineral oil, a lubricant not
intended for use in vehicles. The combined effect contributed to exceedingly high fine
particulate emissions, higher than reliably measured and analyzed anywhere in the world.
In this regard the World Bank played a proactive role in abating the air pollution from
two-stroke three wheelers by way of giving technical inputs and other genuine supports
that culminated to phase out.

Synergy with other projects and programs: The AQMP was designed in coordination
with other projects such as the Dhaka Urban Transport Project (DUTP), and invested in
bringing relevant counterpart agencies together. In addition, ESMAP funds were
obtained to mount a parallel program demonstrating the importance of vehicle inspection
and maintenance. Throughout project preparation, the team worked with other donors
(UNDP, CIDA, ADB) to supplement this project, and to contribute to ongoing research.
For example, a scientific institute in Dhaka was encouraged to monitor particulate matter
near a busy intersection to establish a baseline. This collective action has contributed to a
better baseline, allows for better economic and health impact analysis, and will facilitate
assessment of implementation effectiveness.

Policy interventions needed in transport and traffic management to abate air pollution
from the city: As identified by the project the urban transport management in place itself
is responsible for deteriorating the air quality of Dhaka city. A drastic intervention in this
regard is immediately needed without which other interventions by the MoEF will hardly
leave any tangible impact on the air quality improvement front. Taking this into account



                                              26

  the CASE project would implement some programmes like improvement of side walks,
  traffic signaling, bus route franchising and introduction of BRT on pilot basis with active
  support of the Ministry of Communication and Ministry of Home Affairs.

  Policy interventions needed in reduction of industrial emissions: The AQMP through
  various technical studies has been able to establish that brick kilns around Dhaka city
  particularly in the north cluster contribute to 30 per cent of the total emissions of the city.
  To overcome this problem the project suggested for adoption of energy efficient brick
  manufacturing technology. A pilot project would be undertaken under the CASE project
  to encourage the brick manufacturers to adopt energy efficient technology. The World
  Bank will also lend support to brick manufacturers to adopt cost effective and energy
  efficient new technology. This will not only improve Dhaka's air quality it will also save
  about US 100 million dollar annually because of importing less coal.

  Indoor air pollution has to be tackled in rural areas: It is not only the people living in
  the urban areas are the victim of air pollution the rural people particularly the poor as
  well are the direct victim of indoor air pollution. To reduce health cost because of indoor
  air pollution a multi-pronged approach is needed where technology and environmental
  aspects could be well taken care of. In the immediate future green house gas particularly
  the CO2 emanating from wood, refuse burning need to be monitored in synergy with
  other green house gases contributing to global warming.

  Capacity building of staff: With the setting up of AQ cell within the DOE set up the
  AQMP has paved the way for air pollution management in Bangladesh hitherto
  unattended. Though the new set up provides a skeleton set up it needs to be further
  increased to cope with the growing challenge of urban air pollution from industries,
  vehicles and so on. To abate air pollution effectively from industries the enforcement
  programmes need to be strengthened under AQ cell. The newly approved AQ cell
  organogram need to be revisited in the coming days. The AQM as a new frontier for
  Bangladesh the DOE needs trained professionals to be exclusively dedicated for air
  pollution monitoring, modeling and emission management. This would in the long run
  would contribute to reduction of green house gas generation.

  Project outcomes
·

  Improvement of air quality: GOB made a landmark decision to ban the two-stroke
  engine gasoline-fueled three-wheelers, nicknamed "baby-taxis," plying in Dhaka from
  January 1, 2003. The impact of the action was vividly captured at the CAMS in Dhaka.
  The weekly average before and after removal of baby taxis showed a 30% drop in
  average PM10 level. Other data also showed impressive improvements in the air quality.
  Overall it was estimated that the impact of the ban translated to about 24µm/m3 decrease
  in the PM10 level is Dhaka on yearly basis. Health benefits estimates using accepted
  methodologies showed health benefit of about US$2 per capita per year amounting to
  about US$25 million per year for the city. The project was also instrumental in phasing
  out of two stroke three wheelers baby taxis in 2003 from capital Dhaka. This particular
  action along with regular mobile court programmes substantially contributed to air
  pollution reduction in Dhaka and to a great extent in Chittagong city. The two major


                                                27

cities, home to nearly 16 million people, saw a respite to the worsening air pollution that
badly affected the public health.

Vehicular Enforcement activities: Control of emission from gross polluting vehicles was
recognized very early as the priority. Initial activities were concerned with the emission
reduction of 2-stroke three wheelers through improved Inspection and Maintenance
(I&M), and use of better and appropriate quantity of lubricant. This program achieved a
considerable degree of success. It is expected that this program will help to some extent
in the pollution reduction while other option such as fleet renewal and fuel switch to
CNG are being pursued.

Cost savings: Air pollution has been identified as the leading cause of mortality and
morbidity in urban areas of Bangladesh. If the exposure to urban air pollution was
reduced by 20-80 percent, it would result in saving 1,200 to 3,500 lives annually and
avoiding 80-230 million cases of disease. The costs involved are between US$ 169 ­492
million per year, which correspond to 0.34 ­1.0% of GNI.

Institutional building: Although the primary legislation instituted to mitigate air
pollution was adopted in 1995 as the Bangladesh Environmental Conservation Act,
training and equipment for the Department of Environment to meet the responsibilities
were to be provided. The AQMP has provided the opportunity for staff to build capacity
through real work. The project also supported technical assistance programmes to provide
training, exposure visit, attendance of conferences/workshops, etc. AQMP demonstrated
that air quality management is a multi-sectoral problem and hence a strong multi-agency
effort is necessary to show impact.

Awareness & sensitization: The project immensely contributed to sensitizing the
environmental NGOs and the city dwellers as a whole about bad impact of air pollution
on public health. Specially a sizeable number of newspapers including electronic media
played a major role in portraying the air pollution of the city in its true perspectives.

Contribution to poverty alleviation/reduction: The project objectives to improve air
quality of the city immensely contributed to reduction of air pollution related diseases
like bronchial diseases, asthma, which in turn reduces hospital admissions, abstention
from works and productivity loss. The improved air to a great extent gave respite to a
sizeable number of urban poor, who are for obvious reasons very much vulnerable to
diseases, from getting afflicted with related diseases.

Problems encountered during implementation

Project Management: The project being highly technical in nature faced with acute
shortage of technical manpower particularly the air quality monitoring specialists and
technicians to run
the Continuous Air Monitoring Stations on a sustained basis. Many of the scientists
who received some training on monitoring, data analysis, etc. could not be retained
because of low salary and job uncertainty in the project. This particular aspect alone
singularly contributed to slowing down project implementation progress.



                                              28

Project Director: Given that the AQMP is a highly technical in nature the project was
supposed to be headed by a technically qualified person. In reality it did not happen. The
project saw frequent transfer of Project Directors in a short span of time. At times the
project was manned by department officials holding additional charge.

Procurement: The project did not have a designated Procurement Officer to deal with
procurement and related aspects. This job was wholly entrusted with a Deputy Director
(Accounts), who used to look after procurement and financial management, was
overloaded with day to day account works of the project somehow by dint of hard works
managed to ensure various national and international procurements. Many of the
procurements could not be accomplished as per procurement plan because of sheer lack
of dedicated procurement personnel. From the World Bank's Project Appraisal
Document it is evident that bank somehow gave little emphasis, may be it was a LIL
project, to engage dedicated officials for procurement and FM functions. Rather it opted
to rely on Deputy Director (Accounts) for FM and procurement matters.

Manpower: The project faced with acute shortage of manpower from time to time as
most of the officials took their workplace as launching pad for mining jobs with better
opportunities. All the qualified scientific officers deserted the project within three years
of the project commissioning. As a matter of fact only the residues continued their job.
Better replacement of officials was not possible because of the lack of availability of
scientists in the job market with air pollution management background.

Land Acquisition: The project needed minor land acquisitions for setting up permanent
check posts for conducting vehicular emission tests in Dhaka city. This did not happen as
nobody was willing to spare prime land in Dhaka city. At one stage idea of setting up
mobile check posts had to be abandoned and mobile vans were procured to carry forward
the emission programme.

Consultancy: The project faced with acute shortage of national consultants experienced
in air quality issues. In one instance just because of the lack of response from consulting
firms despite re-invitation of bids the project could not organize training for driver and
mechanics in Chittagong and Khulna cities. As a result a substantial amount of funds
allocated for this purpose could not be expended.

Project financing, allocation and release: The project repeatedly met with problems
with access to RPA account because of the procedural delay in the Ministry of Finance.
As a result the start up of the fiscal years was never been smooth in terms of fund
utilization for various procurements. The existing procedure for access to RPA account
needs to be streamlined in the greater interest of fund utilization in a timely manner. In
that event the project implementing ministry may be empowered to give permission to
RPA account.


Project aid disbursement and reimbursement: The over all aid disbursement and
reimbursement record of the Bank was found satisfactory till all disbursements were
controlled from World Bank's Dhaka office. Some incidences of delayed reimbursement


                                              29

well before the credit closing happened to the detriment of project. The Chennai office of
the Bank at times resorted to delayed replenishment that caused dissatisfaction to the
consultants and contractors to the embarrassment of the project entity. To avoid this in
the foreseeable future Bank may consider to reactivate the disbursement functions in its
Dhaka office.


Interventions of the Bank Missions: The project was subjected to close supervision by
the World Bank missions from time to time. At times it was subjected to conditionalties
in the middle of the project implementation that caused unnecessary delay in procurement
of equipments from abroad. Even some of the conditionalities unrelated to the project
e.g., SRO issue, as imposed by the Bank contributed to slowing down the progress of the
project.

Time & Cost Over-run: As scheduled to be completed in 2004 the project was extended
up to June 2008. For IDA the credit closing date line was December 2007. Despite the
project extension there was no cost over- run. Whatever increase was there was due to
devaluation of taka vis-à-vis dollar.

Delay in Decision: While the PP was under first revision the project met with unusual
delay. During this period project activities was almost came to a halt.

Training: Despite that for Department of Environment the air quality management issue
was a new area sufficient training provision for freshly recruited scientific officers were
not there in the project document. As a result the scientists worked in the project were
deficient in updated knowledge on air pollution issues and its various dimensions. The
project in course of its implementation badly suffered due to lack of trained staffs.

Concluding Remarks

For Bangladesh air pollution management is a new arena that came into the fore with the
adoption of the AQMP project undertaken with World Bank finance as a LIL project.
The project made important contributions that include the formulation of vehicle specific
emission standards, ambient air quality standards, policy options for reducing diesel
emissions, identification of bus routes and their rationalization needs and host of other
reports including phasing out of gross polluting two stroke three wheeler baby taxis in
capital Dhaka. In all, it laid the foundation for advancing air pollution management
activities in Bangladesh and the creation up an Air Quality Cell in the DoE organogram is
the direct project outcome.




                                              30

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

1. AQMP Development Credit Agreement, August 2000.

2. AQMP Project Appraisal Document, June 2000.

3. AQMP Project Information Document, February 1999.

4. AQMP Quality at Entry Assessment Report

5. Aide Memoires and Management Letters of the following missions: April 2001,
   December 2001, May 2002, November 2002, April 2003, September 2003, January
   2004, June 2004, November-December 2004, May-June 2005, September 2005,
   February 2006, June 2006, October 2006, February-March 2007, August 2007,
   December 2007 and February 2008.

6. Implementation Status Reports 1 to 16.




                                         31

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33368R
               To Gangtok
    88ºE                                                  89ºE                                BHUTAN                                    90ºE                                                                91ºE                                 BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                      Dispur
                                    PanchagarPanchagar                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL

 To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
Patna                 PANCHAGAR
                          ANCHAGAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                  BANGLADESH
                                                                           LALMONIRHA                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS
 26ºN        ThakurgaonThakurgaon                NILPHAMARINILPHAMARI                                                                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS
         THAKURGAONTHAKURGAON                         NilphamariNilphamari LALMONIRHAT        LalmonirhatLalmonirhat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                     KurigramKurigram
                                                                    RangpurRangpur                                                                                                                                                                                    DIVISION BOUNDARIES
   To                                                                                               KURIGRAMKURIGRAM
 Katihar                              Dinajpur
                                      Dinajpur                       RANGPURRANGPUR                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                 DINAJPURDINAJPUR                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                         Goalpara                                                     I N D I A
    To
  Katihar                                                                                Gaibandha
                                                                                         Gaibandha                                                                                                                                                    To             92ºE                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dispur
                                                                                         GAIBANDHAGAIBANDHA                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dispur


                                                          JOYPURHA
                                                          JOYPURHAT
                                                                                                                                          SERPURSERPUR
                                                            Joypurhat
                                                            Joypurhat                                                                                                                                             SunamganjSunamganj
 25ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SYLHETSYLHET                                                   25ºN
                                   NAOGAONNAOGAON                                                                                          SerpurSerpur
                                                                                                                                                                                NETROKONANETROKONA                           SUNAMGANJSUNAMGANJ      Sylhet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sylhet
                                   Naogaon
                                   Naogaon                                                BOGRABOGRA                    JamalpurJamalpur
                                                                                           BograBogra
                                    R A J S H A H I                                                                             JAMALPURJAMALPUR                                         NetrokonaNetrokona
                                                                                                                                                                MymensinghMymensingh                                                      S Y L H E T
        NOWABGANJNOWABGANJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Silchar
                                                                                                                                                              MYMENSINGHMYMENSINGH
                  NowabganjNowabganj
                                 RAJSHAHIRAJSHAHI                                                           JJamamun
                                                                                                                   naa                                      D H A K A                                 KishorganjKishorganj                           MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Moulvi Bazar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Moulvi Bazar
             Ganges                RajshahiRajshahi                                            Serajganj
                                                                                               Serajganj
                                                                 Natore
                                                                 Natore                                                                                                                                                          HABIGANJHABIGANJ
                                                                                              SERAJGANJSERAJGANJ                                                                                    KISHORGANJKISHORGANJ
                                                           NATORENATORE                                                                   TANGAIL
                                                                                                                                          ANGAIL

                                                                                                                                        Tangail
                                                                                                                                        angail                                                                                   HabiganjHabiganj


                                                                                  PABNA ABNA                                                                              GAZIPURGAZIPUR

                                                                                 PabnaPabna                                                                                             NARSINGDINARSINGDI
 24ºN                                                                                                                                                                 GazipurGazipur                                                                                                                                            24ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                        NarsingdiNarsingdi
   I N D I A                                          KUSHTIAKUSHTIA      KushtiaKushtia                                 ManikanjManikanj           DHAKADHAKA                                            MegBRAHMANBRAHMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                            hna                                                                              I N D I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BrahmanbariaBrahmanbaria


                                     MeherpurMeherpur                                                                                                                                                          BARIABARIA
                                                                                                                  RajbariRajbariMANIKGANJMANIKGANJ
                      MEHERPURMEHERPUR                                                                                                                                        NARAYNGANJNARAYNGANJ
                                                   ChuadangaChuadanga                         RAJBARIRAJBARI                                       DHAKADHAKA                   NaraynganjNaraynganj

                                     CHUADANGACHUADANGA                                                                          FaridpurFaridpur                                                   COMILLACOMILLA
                                                                            JhenaidahJhenaidah
                                                                                         MaguraMagura                                                       MUNSHIGANJMUNSHIGANJMunshiganjMunshiganj
                                                         JHENAIDAHJHENAIDAH                                            FARIDPUR
                                                                                                                        ARIDPUR
                                                                                        MAGURAMAGURA                                                         Ganges                                           ComillaComilla                                                RI
 To                                                                                                                                                           SARIATPURSARIATPUR
Calcutta                                                                                                                                                                                CHANDPURCHANDPUR
                                                                                                                                                                 SariatpurSariatpur
                                                           JessoreJessore                       NarailNarail                                                MadaripurMadaripur       ChandpurChandpur
                                                                                               NARAILNARAIL                               MADARIPURMADARIPUR
                                                                    JESSOREJESSORE                                       GOPALGANJGOPALGANJ                                                                                                                       KHAGRACHHARIKHAGRACHHAKhagrachhariKhagrachhari
 23ºN                                                       K H U L N A                                                         GopalganjGopalganj                                                                                   FeniFeni                                                                                   23ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                          LUXMIPURLUXMIPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FENIFENI
                                                                                                     Khulna
                                                                                                     Khulna                                                 BARISALBARISAL                  LuxmipurLuxmipur NOAKHALINOAKHALI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                NoakhaliNoakhali                                                           RANGAMATIRANGAMATI
                                                                 SatkhiraSatkhira       KHULNAKHULNA                                    PEROJPURPEROJPUR              Barisal
                                                                                                                                                                      Barisal           BholaBhola                C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                                                     BagerhatBagerhat                   JhalukathiJhalukathi
  To                                                      SATKHIRASATKHIRA                                                                        JHALUKATHIJHALUKATHI                                                                                            RangamatiRangamati                            Kaptai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kaptai
Calcutta                                                                                                    BAGERHA
                                                                                                            BAGERHAT                      PerojpurPerojpur                                                                                                                                        LakeLake
                                                                                                                                            B A R I S A L                                                                                         CHITTAGONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHITTAGONG

                                                                                                                                                                 PatuakhaliPatuakhali     BHOLABHOLA

                                                                                                     e            l      t      a                               PATUAKHALI
                                                                                                                                                                      TUAKHALI                                                               ChittagongChittagong
                                                                                                                                                   BargunaBarguna
                                 G  a    n            g    e         s                    D
                                                                                                                                          BARGUNABARGUNA                                                                                                                                        BandarbanBandarban


 22ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                          s                                                                                Mt. Mowdok                      22ºN

                                                                                          b    a     n         s                                                                                     g      e                                                                                                    (957 m)

                                                                          d   a         r                                                                                                a        n

                                                      S  u       n                                                                                            t h         e        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BANDARBANBANDARBAN
                                                                                                                                          o       f                                                                                                               COX'SCOX'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BAZARBAZAR
                                                                                        M      o     u        t       h   s

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cox's Bazar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cox's Bazar
                0 10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                              B a y o f B e n g a l
                0         10       20            30     40       50 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MYANMAR
        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 21ºN   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21ºN
        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                       89ºE                                                                             90ºE                                                                  91ºE                                                       92ºE                                           Sittwe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MARCH 2008

