Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4305-MAG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Madagascar Sustainable Health System Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 5, 2007
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4305-MAG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 5, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MADAGASCAR (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to  
six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,700,000) 
(variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through PCU in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following: 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
the Recipient has established an operational internal audit department 
within MOHFP satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b) 
the Recipient has adopted the PAFAM and the PIM, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time in charge of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Budget 
Antananarivo 101 
Madagascar 
BP 61 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MEFB 
  22489 
  (261) 
20 
22 
345 
30 
Antananarivo 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Antananarivo, Republic of Madagascar, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
By: 
 
       /s/ Benjamin Andriamparany Radavidson 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Robert 
R. 
Blake 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the strengthening of the 
Recipient’s health system, and enhance the institutional capacity of MOHFPSP to 
improve the access and utilization of health services, especially in rural and remote areas. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A.   Delivery of Health Services 
1. 
Support in improving the delivery of health services at the District and 
community level, including through: (a) rehabilitation works and the provision of 
equipment, drugs and medical supplies for Primary Health Centers; and (b) provision of 
drugs, equipment, technical assistance and training to support implementation of 
innovative strategies to meet the health needs of populations in remote areas. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to MOHFPSP to: (a) review 
needs for essential drugs and update the list of essential drugs to be available nationally; 
(b) undertake an assessment of the institutional and organizational performance of the 
Recipient’s hospitals, and subsequently implement hospital management pilots; and  
(c) develop tools for the fight against priority infectious diseases and subsequently 
implement such tools. 
Part B. 
Development and Management of Human Resources 
1. 
Development and selective implementation, through provision of technical 
assistance to MOHFPSP, for: (a) incentive, performance-based and contracting 
mechanisms for the redeployment of medical personnel to rural areas; (b) protocols for 
improving the working conditions of medical personnel in rural areas; (c) new training 
strategies for basic and continuing education; and (d) management of career plans and the 
development of effective human resources management tools. 
2. 
Provision of training and coaching to health personnel to strengthen capacity to 
deliver quality services. 
Page  7
6
Part C. 
Innovations in Health Financing Management 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to MOHFPSP for the development and selective 
implementation of: (a) innovative resource mobilization mechanisms to ensure 
sustainability of priority programs; (b) mechanisms for better management of available 
public and private funds; and (c) innovative provider payment mechanisms.  
Part D. 
Improving Demand and Utilization of Health Services 
1. 
Promote awareness of health needs and available services at the community level 
and support increased utilization rate of health services, through carrying out of 
campaigns, and provision of technical assistance, training and equipment for the 
implementation of selective innovative pilot experiences. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for the development and selective 
implementation of innovative financial mechanisms to increase demand for priority 
health services. 
Part E. 
Institutional Strengthening 
1. 
Support strengthening the capacity of the MOHFPSP in planning and 
programming, procurement, financial management and budget management, and 
strengthen supervisory and implementation capacity of Districts and support to the 
preparation and implementation of Work Plans through the provision of technical 
assistance and equipment, as well as carrying out audits and implementing social and 
environmental mitigation measures related to the Project. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and training to MOHFPSP for: (a) the 
development and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation plan; (b) strengthening 
capacity to collect and analyze health information and data; and (c) contribute to the 
preparation and implementation of the national demographic and health survey. 
3. 
Support Operating Costs for PCU. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the PIM and the 
PAFAM; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the 
PIM and the PAFAM, or any provision thereof. 
2. 
The Recipient shall at all time during Project implementation maintain: 
(a) 
a management team within MOHFPSP comprised of staff in adequate 
number and with proper experience assigned to the Project and the 
Program, and in charge of: (i) providing general strategic and policy 
direction and oversight of the Program implementation; (ii) ensure 
communication and cooperation among stakeholders; including the 
private sector; (iii) approve the annual Work Program and budget; and 
(iv) review progress reports, and audit reports; and 
(b) 
the PCU with functions, composition and staffing (including 
qualifications and experience of personnel) satisfactory to the 
Association, to be responsible for: (i) coordination of the implementation 
of the Project; (ii) consolidation of the Work Plans and budgets; 
(iii) maintenance of records and separate accounts for all transactions 
related to PCU; (iv) preparation, consolidation and production of the 
Project financial statements, quarterly unaudited financial statements and 
any other financial information required by the Recipient or the 
Association; (v) management of the Designated Account; and 
(vi) monitoring and evaluation of Project Activities. The PCU will at all 
time include the following key staff: a coordinator, a procurement 
specialist, an administrative and financial officer, and a monitoring and 
evaluation specialist. 
3. 
The PCU shall ensure proper coordination and communication with all agencies 
involved in the implementation of the Project and the Program, including all 
MOHFPSP Technical Departments at the central and decentralized level, on the 
basis of Work Plans. 
Page  9
8
4. 
MOHFPSP shall organize two summits a year, to include representatives from all 
relevant Ministries and at least the ministries responsible for finance, water and 
sanitation, and national education as well as from development partners, civil 
society organizations active in the health sector, and other stakeholders, in order 
to review the previous year’s Work Program’s performance and endorse 
recommendations for further implementation of the Program. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the MWMP, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the said plan. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered 
by such report. 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
(i) 
by the Closing Date 47 Primary Health Centers will be upgraded 
in line with technical norms set by MOHFPSP; 
(ii) 
by the Closing Date, 10,000 safe delivery kits provided to 
Primary Health Centers; 
Page  10
9
(iii) 
by the Closing Date, 100,000 maternal kits provided to Primary 
Health Centers; 
(iv) 
by the Closing Date, joint annual reviews of the Program will be 
undertaken with development partners; 
(v) 
throughout the implementation of the Project, data on illness, 
utilization and treatment are collected regularly at district level 
and reported to the MOHFPSP; and 
(vi) 
throughout the implementation of the Project, utilization and 
treatment data is analyzed and used to inform policy making in 
the health sector. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of six months, commencing with the 
fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project was made. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than six months after the end of such period. 
4. 
No later than three months from the Date of Effectiveness, the Recipient shall 
have caused PCU to: (i) employ the independent auditors referred to in  
Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) upgrade its accounting software; 
and (iii) recruit technical assistance to strengthen financial management capacity, 
all in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  11
10
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
National Competitive bidding
 
(b)  
Shopping
 
(c)  
Direct contracting
 
(d)  
Procurement from United Nations Agencies
 
(e)  
Procurement agents 
Page  12
11
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
Selection based on 
the Consultants’ Qualifications(CQS)
 
(b)  
Single Source Selection(SSS)
 
(c)  
Selection of Individual Consultants(ICS)
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: 
(a) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; 
(b) (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more; (c) each con
tract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (d) each contract for individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (e) all 
contracts procured on a single source basis. All other contracts shall be subject to 
Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance 100% 
(inclusive of Taxes) of Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  13
12
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  14
13
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 1 and October 1: 
 
commencing October 1, 2017 to and including 
April  1, 2027 
1% 
commencing October 1, 2027 to and including 
April 1, 2047 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  15
14
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006, as may be amended by the Association. 
3. 
“District” means an administrative area representing a designated area and 
population within the territory of the Recipient for the purpose the delivery of 
health services. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006).  
5. 
“MOHFPSP” means the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of health and family 
planning and social protection. 
6. 
“MOHFPSP Technical Department” means, collectively, the directorates as 
defined by 
Decret No 2007-
208
fixant les attributions du Ministère de la Santé, 
du Planning Familial et de la Protection Sociale ainsi que l’organisation 
générale de son Ministère en date du 6 mars 2007
.
7. 
“MWMP” means the medical waste management plan updated March 26, 2007, 
approved by the Association, setting out the measures and arrangements 
necessary for the proper management of hazardous waste for the Project. 
8. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by PCU on account 
of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, vehicles operation and maintenance, communication costs, rental 
expenses, utilities expenses, consumables, transport, travel and accommodation, 
per diem, supervision costs, audits and salaries of locally contracted staff. 
9. 
“PAFAM” means the Project administrative, financial and accounting manual, 
outlining the administrative, financial and accounting arrangements for the 
implementation of the Project, to be adopted by the Recipient pursuant to Section 
Page  16
15
5.01 (b) of this Agreement as the same may be amended by agreement of the 
Parties from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the PAFAM. 
10. 
“PCU” means the coordination unit for the Project, established within 
MOFHPSP and operating pursuant to MOFHPSP’s organizational chart in 
compliance with 
Decret No 2007-
208
fixant les attributions du Ministère de la 
Santé, du Planning Familial et de la Protection Sociale ainsi que l’organisation 
générale de son Ministère en date du 6 mars 2007
.
11. 
“PIM” means the Project implementation manual outlining, the institutional and 
operational arrangements for the implementation of the Project, including, 
institutional, disbursement, procurement, environmental mitigation and 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements of the Project, to be adopted by the 
Recipient pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended by agreement of the Parties from time to time, and such term includes 
any schedules to the PIM. 
12. 
“Primary Health Centers” means “
Centre de Santé de Base
”, “
Centre Hospitalier 
de District”, 
and
 “Centre Hospitalier de Référence Régionale
”, as defined by 
Decret No 2007-
208 fixant les attributions du Ministère de la Santé, du Planning 
Familial et de la Protection Sociale ainsi que l’organisation générale de son 
Ministère en date du 6 mars 2007
.
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006, as may be amended by the Association. 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 5, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
15. 
“Program” means the program designed to improve the health sector policy and 
set forth or referred to in the letter dated March 12, 2007 from the Recipient to 
the Association. 
16. 
“Work Plans” means the yearly program of activities and budget to be prepared 
at the District level and to be submitted for review and approval by PCU, and 
further integration into the Work Program. 
Page  17
16
17. 
“Work Program” means the annual program of activities and budget under the 
Project, satisfactory to the Association, to be prepared by the PCU and submitted 
to the MOFHPSP Management Team for review and approval.
 
