Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2847 
Project Name 
Madagascar Health SWAP 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P103606 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 12, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 22, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 29, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
1. 
Madagascar has witnessed a remarkable downturn since becoming independent in 1961, with real per 
capita GDP declining by over 25 percent during the last four decades to US$290 in 2005. Caused in part 
by inward looking, highly protectionist policies and poor govern
ance, Madagascar’s disappointing 
economic outcome has resulted in a deterioration of physical and human capital. Two liberalization 
episodes in the late 1980s and 1990s led to growth but proved short lived. The reforms of the late 1990s, 
aided by preferential trade access, resulted in export-oriented, private-sector led growth, averaging over 4 
percent during 1997-2001. However, this progress was interrupted by a political crisis over the contested 
2002 elections that resulted in an economic crisis, with  GDP declining by 13 percent in that one year 
alone. However, the political crisis did bring to power a democratic force with a reform agenda and 
renewed hope for a more prosperous future. 
 
2.  Indeed, good progress has been achieved since the political and economic crisis of 2002. Prudent 
macroeconomic management created an environment conducive to economic rebound, reaping the fruits 
of previous liberalization reforms. Despite exogenous shocks such as cyclones and high oil prices, the 
macro-economic situation stabilized and the economy grew at about 10 percent in 2003 and has since 
continued to grow at respectable 5 percent. Growth has come largely through improved performance in 
agriculture, especially higher rice production, higher tourism receipts, and continued public investments. 
Despite increases in world petroleum prices, a tight monetary policy has resulted in a decline in annual 
inflation from 27 percent in end-2004 to 10 percent in mid-2006. Similarly, the measures adopted to 
ensure exchange rate stability and competitiveness, and to secure an adequate level of international 
reserves were broadly successful leading to greater stability of the market-determined exchange rate in 
2005. The government has also taken steps to confront corruption and to improve the quality of public 
sector governance. In an effort to improve public resource management and strengthen the system of 
delivery of public services, the government is preparing a legal framework for decentralization to the 
level of communes. 
 
3.  High growth has also resulted in improvements in basic social indicators, albeit from a low base. 
More children are in school today, and net primary enrolment rates exceed 90 percent. Immunization rates 
have improved and the number of births assisted by skilled medical personnel has increased. Infant and 
child mortality rates have declined significantly over the last decade and chronic malnutrition has 
decreased. Similarly, progress has been made on reducing poverty, which declined to 70 percent from its 
peak level of 80 percent at the time of the 2002 crisis. With the implementation of the roads program in 
Page  2
rural areas, rural population with reliable access to transport increased from 45 percent in 2003 to 57 
percent in 2005. Access to safe drinking water in rural areas also improved during this period. 
 
4.  These positive developments are encouraging, but there is still a long way to go given where 
Madagascar is today relative to the rest of the world. The macroeconomic situation remains fragile, 
especially as revenue mobilization remains weak. Poverty rates are still very high while social indicators 
are very low, and Madagascar is not likely to reach five out of seven Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). The country also continues to face fiscal problems, with significant revenue shortfalls in 
customs and tax collections leading to a decline in tax revenues. Although the economy has been on a 
rebound in the last two years, the capacity of the Government to raise revenue remains severely 
constrained. Moreover, external aid has been dwindling in recent years. As a result, overall government 
expenditure is falling in real terms and public spending on social programs is declining both in real terms 
and as a percentage of the Government budget. 
 
5.  Health is a key goal of Madagasc
ar’s poverty reduction strategy, and health policy issues feature 
prominently in the country development plans, including the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP), 2007-2011. 
The World Bank has been supporting the health sector through a number of health-specific and multi-
sectoral projects in the past decade, and several are ongoing. These include the US$40 million Second 
Health Project (CRESAN 2), which was approved in November 1999 with the objective of contributing to 
the improvement of the health status of the population through more accessible and better quality of 
health services, especially primary health care services in rural areas. CRESAN 2 also supports priority 
health programs (with an emphasis on endemic infectious diseases, reproductive health and nutrition) and 
contributes to the strengthening of sector management and administrative capacity within the Ministry of 
Health and Family Planning (MOHFP), especially at provincial and district levels. CRESAN 2 is 
expected to close in December 31, 2007. Other projects include the Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Project 
(US$20m, closing date: December 2007), Second Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Project (US$30m, closing 
date: December 2009), Community Development Fund (US$176m, closing date: June 2008), and Second 
Community Nutrition Project (US$47.6m, closing date: December 2008). 
 
6. The proposed 
Madagascar Health SWAp
 represents the next stage with respect to the Bank and 
other development partners’ support for the health sector. There is general consensus among development 
partners that the proposed sector wide approach of Madagascar Health SWAp for financing the support to 
the health sector is preferred to general budget support as the primary vehicle for financing. There is 
widespread recognition that the challenges in health are too specific and the sector is too fragmented to 
fully benefit from pure budget support, and that a transition phase of sector specific support is needed. 
The World Bank’s Independent Evaluation Group (which completed a Country Assistance Evaluation in 
July 2006 of IDA’s involvement in Madagascar for 1995–2005) also recommends limiting the role of 
budget support until there is a sustained improvement in collecting and managing public resources.  
 
7. 
The proposed operation is included in the Madagascar Draft Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 
2007-11 in paragraph 109. Key CAS goals supported by the Project include “improving services to 
people” (Pillar II of the CAS) and “achieving better outcomes in education and health” (paragraph 108). 
In health, the focus in CAS is to help the government make further progress on reducing child and 
maternal mortality by offering access to reproductive services, reducing child malnutrition, improving the 
availability of clean water and sanitation services, and keeping HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted 
disease rates under control. The approach of the proposed Madagascar Health SWAp – alignment with the 
government program as enunciated in the Madagascar Action Plan, harmonization and coordination with 
other donors, and integrated sector-wide approach to health – is consistent with the CAS principles and 
approach as laid down in paragraphs 89 to 95.  
 
8. 
The rationale for the Bank’s continued involvement in the health sector is strong: 
Page  3
·
Consolidation and scaling-up of support for basic services in health is essential for Madagascar to 
achieve progress towards the Millennium Development Goals. The current financial support 
provided by CRESAN 2 will be exhausted by September 2007. The proposed Health SWAp will 
be required to sustain and gradually enhance IDA financing as well as leverage other donor 
financing for the health sector in Madagascar within an agreed medium-term fiscal framework.  
·
The Bank is in a unique position to help Madagascar position itself to profit from scaling-up 
opportunities as they arise and play a catalytic role in leveraging additional resources, including 
those from other developmental partners. In line with IDA-14 goals on leveraging and 
partnerships, the IDA commitment to the health sector will be critical in leveraging a large 
amount of development assistance from other donors. The Bank is a nodal agency in a consortium 
that is being put together to support the health sector via the sector-wide approach. The 
consortium includes African Development Bank (BAD), A
gence Française de Développement 
(AfDB), EC, French Cooperation, JICA, UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, WHO, and the World Bank.  
·
The Madagascar Health SWAp supports clear opportunities to ‘boost’ progress on pro-poor and 
potentially high impact activities, including the immunization of children, control of malaria, and 
population and family planning.  
·
The Bank and other partners are well positioned to work with the Government on challenges of 
the health sector at the policy level. The involvement of the Bank is important to bring 
Government, civil society, and development partners together around a common vision of 
effective service delivery and improved accountability.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
9.  The project development objective (PDO) of the proposed Madagascar Health SWAp is to contribute 
to the strengthening of the health system, including financing, delivery and management, in order to 
improve the access and utilization of health services, especially in rural and remote areas, and scale-up the 
production and delivery of health programs with an emphasis on endemic infectious diseases, 
reproductive health (including family planning sexually transmitted diseases, and HIV/AIDS) and 
nutrition. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
10.  
Core principles.
 The proposed Madagascar Health SWAp is fully aligned with the Madagascar 
Action Plan (MAP), which sets very ambitious targets in the areas of maternal and child mortality and 
fertility rate, malaria, tuberculosis, sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDs control; and reduction of 
malnutrition in children under the age of five. Following the enunciation of these broad objectives for the 
health sector in the MAP, MOHFP has prepared a National Health Sector Strategy and Development Plan 
(Plan de Développement du Secteur Santé, or PDSS) for the period 2007-2011, which constitutes the 
tools to increase the financial resources available to the sector from all sources. The draft PDSS and 
sector strategy identify a number of key bottlenecks to increased access and use of health services and 
improvements in health indicators across the population of Madagascar, and identify four central areas of 
weakness: (i) 
poorly equipped health centers and low levels of capacity to produce and deliver health 
services, especially in rural and remote areas 
(managerial capacity at the level of communes is weak); 
(ii) 
uneven staffing of health facilities, especially in rural and remote areas 
(a large number of health 
centers, particularly in rural and remote areas, do not have adequate number of medically qualified staff); 
(iii) 
low levels of health financing and inefficiencies in resource allocation
 (Madagascar spent around 
US$ 6 per capita on health care in 2005, significantly lower than the average for sub-Saharan Africa, 
excluding South Africa, of US$15.4 per capita);  and (iv) 
inadequate demand for health services and low 
levels of utilization 
(only 10 percent of the population reports an illness annually, and of this, only 40 
percent seeks care from qualified medical personnel). The fundamental guiding principle of the proposed 
Page  4
operation is that strengthening of the health system, including the private sector, is central to ensuring the 
production, financing and delivery of specific interventions such as those needed to reduce infant, child 
and maternal mortality, improve maternal health, dramatically reduce malaria, sexually transmitted 
diseases, and HIV-AIDS, and improve the nutrition status of children in Madagascar.  
 
11.  The PDSS and the sector strategy lay the foundations of a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp) to support 
the development of the health sector in Madagascar. This approach represents a distinctive paradigm shift, 
especially as it moves away from “programmatic” support started with the PRSC series in 2003 towards a 
specific “sector” support. It is agreed by all development partners as well as the government that at this 
point the challenges in health are too specific and the sector is too fragmented to fully benefit from a pure 
PRSC budget support, and that a transition period is needed to harmonize policies and implementation 
and to improve MOHFP’s stewardship capacity. Indeed, there is general agreement among the 
Government and a large number of development partners on a sector wide approach to the development 
and support of the health sector. The successful adoption of the Sector Wide Approach is expected to 
yield a number of development benefits, starting from stronger country ownership & leadership all the 
way to greater focus on results. In addition, the SWAp process will encourage and foster coordinated and 
open policy dialogue, guide allocation of resources based on priorities, and facilitate scaling-up of 
benefits to entire sector. It will also enhance sector-wide accountability with common fiduciary standards, 
and strengthen the country’s capacity, systems and institutions.  
 
12.  
Lending instrument and financing.
 The proposed project will be financed through a Sector 
Investment Loan (SIL) of an amount equivalent to US$10 million, implemented over a 30-month period 
from July 2007 to December 2009. The initial IDA financing will be pooled with contributions from the 
AfDB, and supported through parallel financing by other development partners, including BAD, JICA, 
UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, and WHO. The European Union will continue to provide Direct Budget 
Support to the Government of Madagascar, which also indirectly supports the health sector. At the end of 
the two-and-a-half years of implementation, additional financing would be sought to continue support to 
the medium-term objectives of the MAP and PDSS strategy that are presently elaborated through 2011.  
 
13.  
Project components.
 The primary focus of the Madagascar Health SWAp is to strengthen the health 
system and increase its capacity to provide the necessary production, financing, delivery and management 
support for delivery of services necessary to meet the eventual objectives of reducing child and maternal 
mortality, controlling illnesses due to malaria, sexually transmitted diseases, and HIV-AIDS. 
Accordingly, the Madagascar Health SWAp will be designed along a matrix of measures strengthening 
the health systems intersecting with line interventions of measures to bring about improvements in health 
outcomes. The Madagascar Health SWAp will thus support systemic components directed to improving 
health financing, delivery and management. Specifically, the project will have 5 components: (i) 
Strengthening Delivery of Health Services; (ii) Development and Management of Human Resources in 
the Health Sector; (iii) Innovations in Health Financing, including Resource Mobilization and Resource 
Allocation; (iv) Improving Demand and Utilization of Health Services; and (v) Monitoring and 
Evaluation of Interventions and Results, including strengthening of the existing health surveillance 
system. Activities undertaken under these components are expected to result in significant improvements 
across a range of demand-side, supply-side and institutional aspects of the health system, especially in the 
production and delivery of quality services in rural and remote areas, in both public and private sectors. 
Visible results are expected in the deployment, effectiveness and morale of health teams at service 
delivery points, in particular in remote areas, accompanied by less obvious but important changes in the 
nature of support provided to them by district, regional and central level managers. Teams at the regional 
and district levels and in health care service delivery points will work together to plan, implement and 
monitor their programs in compliance with national priorities and strategies, and will be encouraged to 
systematically use quality assurance methods to solve problems, work collaboratively with local 
Page  5
authorities, NGOs and other partners, and draw upon resources from outside of the health budget to 
address health problems in their communities.
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
14.  The proposed project has been classified as category B for environmental screening 
purposes, given the risks associated with the handling and disposal of medical wastes. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 5 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
 Total 
15 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Mukesh Chawla 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-1291 
Fax: (202) 473-8107 
Email: mchawla@worldbank.org
 
