                                           Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                        ReportNo: 38898 MG-




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                      PROPOSEDCREDIT

                          INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR6.7 MILLION
                              (US$lO MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                             TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                              FORA

     MADAGASCAR SUSTAINABLEHEALTHSYSTEMDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                          April 20,2007




HumanDevelopmentI11
CountryDepartment8
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                                        CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                     (ExchangeRateEffectiveMarch 31,2007)
                                         Currency Unit = Ariary
                                            Ariary2050 = USDl
                                          USD1.51326 = SDRl

                                                   FISCALYEAR
                                              January 1   - December31


AFD          Agence Franqaise de Dkveloppement              MDG         MillenniumDevelopment Goals
             (French DevelopmentAgency)
AfDB         African Development Bank                       M I S       Management Information System
AIDS         Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome            M O H       Ministry of Health, FamilyPlanning and Social




             Zusammenarbit GmbH
HIPC         Heavily Indebted Poor Countries                STI         Sexually Transmitted Infections
HIV          HumanImmunodeficiency Virus                    SSD         HealthDistricts
IBRD         Int.Bankfor Reconst. & Dev.                    sss         Central Health Statistics Service
ICB          International Competitive Bidding              UN         United Nations
IDA          International Development Association          UNAIDS     UnitedNations Programme on HIV/AIDS
I M C I      Integrated Management o f Childhood            UNDP       UnitedNations Development Programme
             Illnesses
INSTAT     IIInstitut National de la Statistique (National
                                             -   .         IUNFPA     IUnitedNations Fundfor PopulationActivities
             Statistical Institute)
JICA         Japanese InternationalCooperation Agency       UNICEF     UnitedNations Children's Fund
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation                      USAID      U S Agency for InternationalDevelopment
M A P        Madagascar Action Plan                         WHO        World Health Organization

                                   ActingVice President:          HartwigSchafer
                                         CountryDirector:         RitvaReinikka
                                          CountryManager          RobertBlake
                                           Sector Manager:        LauraFrigenti
                                       Task Team Leader:          MukeshChawla

                                                                                                FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                        MADAGASCAR
                            SustainableHealthSystemDevelopmentProject

                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                     Page

  I STRATEGICCONTEXTANDRATIONALE
   .                                                                               ..................................................................  1
     A. Country and sector issues ....................................................................................................                 1
     B.    Rationale for Bank involvement..........................................................................................                    3
      C. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                                 4

  I1 .     PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        ..............................................................................................    5
      A. Lendinginstrument..............................................................................................................               5
      B. Project development objective andkey indicators..............................................................                                 5
      C. Project components..............................................................................................................              5
      D. Lessons learned andreflectedinthe project design............................................................                                  8
      E. Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection...............................................................                               9

  I11 .    IMPLEMENTATION                  .....................................................................................................      10
      A.   Partnership arrangements, coordination and implementation support mechanisms..........10
      B Institutional andimplementationarrangements ................................................................
       .                                                                                                                                              10
      C. Monitoring and evaluationo f outcomes/results ................................................................                               11
      D.   Sustainability.....................................................................................................................        12
      E.   Critical risks and possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                          12
      F. Loadcredit conditions and covenants ...............................................................................                          13

  I V .    APPRAISAL SUMMARY                       ..............................................................................................     13
      A. Economic and financial analyses.......................................................................................                       13
      B.   Technical ...........................................................................................................................      15
      C. Fiduciary............................................................................................................................ 16
      D Social .................................................................................................................................
        .                                                                                                                                             18
      E.   Environment ......................................................................................................................         19
      F. Safeguardpolicies.,............................................................................................................              19
      G.   Policy Exceptions and Readiness ......................................................................................                     20

  Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground                                        ..........................................................   21


                 has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                     ..................35
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                      .........................................................................       38

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription            ......................................................................................       48

Annex 5: ProjectCosts................................................................................................................       54

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                ..................................................................................       55

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                              .....................................  57

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements              .......................................................................................       68

Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                  ..............................................................................       75

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues         .............................................................................................       85

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision                      ......................................................................      87

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile               ..................................................................................       88

Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits                ...............................................................................       90

Annex 14: Countryat a Glance      ..................................................................................................        92

Annex 15: Map IBRD33439      .......................................................................................................        95

                                     MADAGASCAR

     MADAGASCARSUSTAINABLEHEALTHSYSTEMDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                     AFRICA REGION

                                         AFTH3

Date: April 20,2007                           Team Leader: MukeshChawla
CountryDirector: RitvaS. Reinikka             Sectors: Health (100%)
Sector ManagerDirector: Laura Frigenti        Themes: Childhealth(P);Other
                                              communicablediseases (P);Health system
                                              performance(P);Population andreproductive
                                              health (P);Nutrition andfoodsecurity (S)
Project ID: P103606                           Environmentalscreening category: Partial
                                              Assessment
LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan

[ ] Loan    [XI Credit   [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

ForLoans/Credits/Others:
Total OperationCost (US$m.): 15.00
TotalBank financing (US$m.): 10.00
Proposedterms: The -proposedcreditwouldbe on standardIDA terms, with amaturity of40
                        -
vears. includinga grace periodoftenvears.
,             u u       1          .'
                                  FinancingPlan(US$m)
                Source                        Local            Foreign          Total
BORROWERRECIPIENT                                5.00              0.00             5.00
International DevelopmentAssociation            10.00              0.00            10.00
(IDA)
FinancingGap                                   -10.00              10.00            0.00
Total:                                           5.00             10.00            15.00

                           Amount of financingto beprovidedby
Source                                                                  IAmount(US$m)
                                                                        I




Borrower:
MINISTRY OFHEALTHAND FAMILY PLANNING
Madagascar

ResponsibleAgency:

-Y              0         0          0         0         0         0        0         0       0
4nnual         0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
Sumulative     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00




Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref: PAD D.7                                                                        [XIYes [ ]No

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The project development objective (PDO) o fthe proposed Madagascar Health SWAP is to
contribute to the strengthening o f the health system, including financing, delivery and
management, inorder to improve the access and utilization o f health services, especially inrural
and remote areas, and scale-up the production and delivery o fhealthprograms with an emphasis
on endemic infectious diseases, reproductive health (including family planning sexually
transmitted diseases, and HIVIAIDS) and nutrition.

Project description[one-sentence summary of each component] Ref: PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4


Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Ref: PADD.6, TechnicalAnnex 10


Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Board presentation:
5/22/2007

Loadcredit effectiveness:
6/29/2007

Covenants applicable to project implementation:

I. STRATEGICCONTEXTANDRATIONALE

A. Country and sector issues

1.      Madagascar has witnessed a remarkable downturn since becoming independent in 1961,
with real per capita GDP declining by over 25 percent duringthe last four decades to US$290 in
2005. Caused in part by inward looking, highly protectionist policies and poor governance,
Madagascar's disappointing economic outcome has resulted in a deterioration o f physical and
human capital. Two liberalization episodes inthe late 1980s and 1990s led to growth but proved
short-lived. The reforms o f the late 1990s, aided by preferential trade access, resultedin export-
oriented, private-sector led growth, averaging over four percent during 1997-2001. This progress
was interrupted by a political crisis over the contested 2002 elections, resulting in an economic
crisis, with GDP declining by 13 percent inthat one year alone. However, the political crisis did
bringto power a democratic force with a reform agenda andrenewedhope for a more prosperous
future.

2.       Good progress has beenachieved since the political and economic crisis o f 2002. Prudent
macroeconomic management created an environment conducive to economic rebound, reaping
the fruits o fprevious liberalizationreforms. Despite exogenous shocks such as cyclones andhigh
oil prices, the macro-economic situation stabilized and the economy grew at about 10 percent in
2003 and has since continued to grow at a respectable 5 percent per year. Growth has come
largely through improved performance in agriculture, especially higher rice production, higher
tourism receipts, and continued public investments.Despite increases in world petroleum prices,
a tight monetary policy has resulted in a decline inannual inflation from 27 percent inend-2004
to 10 percent inmid-2006. Similarly, the measures adopted to ensure exchange rate stability and
competitiveness and to secure an adequate level o f international reserves were broadly
successfbl, leading to greater stability o f the market-determined exchange rate in 2005. The
Government has also taken steps to confront corruption and to improve the quality o f public
sector governance. In an effort to improve public resource management and strengthen public
service delivery, the Government i s preparing a legal framework for decentralization to the level
o f communes.

3.       Highgrowth has also resultedin improvements inbasic social indicators, albeit from a
low base. More children are in school today, and net primary enrolment rates exceed 90 percent.
Immunization rates have improved and the number o f births assisted by skilled medical
personnel has increased. Infant and child mortality rates have declined significantly over the last
decade and chronic malnutrition has decreased. Similarly, progress has been made on reducing
poverty, which declined to 69 percent from its peak level o f 80 percent at the time o f the 2002
crisis. With the implementation o f the rural roads program, reliable access to transport for the
rural population has increased from 45 percent in 2003 to 57 percent in 2005. Access to safe
drinkingwater inrural areasalso improvedduringthis period.

4.       These positive developments are encouraging, but there is still a long way to go given
where Madagascar is today relative to the rest o f the world. The macroeconomic situation
remains fragile, especially as revenue mobilization remains weak. Poverty rates are still very
highwhile social indicators are low, andMadagascar is not likely to reachthe poverty alleviation
and health-related MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs). The country also continues to face


                                                 1

fiscal problems, with significant revenue shortfalls in customs and tax collections leading to a
decline in tax revenues. Although the economy has been on a rebound in the last two years, the
capacity o f the Government to raise revenue remains severely constrained. Moreover, external
aid has been dwindling inrecent years. As a result, overall government expenditure i s falling in
real terms and public spending on social programs i s declining both in real terms and as a
percentage o fthe government budget.

5.       Health i s a key goal o f Madagascar's second-generation poverty reduction strategy, the
Madagascar Action Plan (MAP), 2007-2011. The MAP - which sets very ambitious targets in
the areas o fmaternal and child mortality, fertility rate, malaria, tuberculosis, sexually transmitted
diseases and HIV/AIDS control, and reduction of malnutrition inchildren under the age o f five -
i s multi-sectoral innature and recognizes the importance o f system and institution strengthening.
Following the MAP, the health sector strategy formulated by the Ministry o f Health, Family
Planning and Social Protection (henceforth: MOH) in the Plan de De'veloppement du Secteur
Sante', or the PDSS, identifies a number o f key bottlenecks to increased access and use of health
services and improvements in health indicators in Madagascar. Four critical areas o f weakness
are highlighted: (i)  poorly equipped health centers and low levels of capacity to produce and
deliver health services, especially in rural and remote areas (managerial capacity at the level of
communes i s weak); (ii) staffing of healthfacilities, especially in rural and remote areas
                           uneven
(a large number of health centers, particularly in rural and remote areas, do not have adequate
numbers o f qualified staff); (iii) low levels of health financing and inefficiencies in resource
allocation (Madagascar spent around US$6 per capita on health care in2005, significantly lower
than the average for sub-Saharan Africa, excluding South Africa, o f US$15.4 per capita); and
(iv) inadequate demandfor health services and low levels of utilization (only 10 percent o f the
population reports an illness annually, and o f this, only 40 percent seeks care from qualified
medical personnel). The MAP provides the appropriate entry point for an integrated sector-wide
approach inthe design o fthe Sustainable Health SystemDevelopment Project (SHSDP).

6.       The World Bank has been supporting the health sector through a number o f health-
specific and multi-sectoral projects in the past decade, several o f which are ongoing. These
include the Second Health Sector Support Project (CRESAN 2), which was approved in
November 1999 in the amount o f US$40 million, with the objective o f contributing to the
improvement o f the population's health status through more accessible and better quality o f
health services, especially primary health care services in rural areas. CRESAN 2, which
received a supplemental credit o f US$18 million inMay 2005, supports priority health programs
(with an emphasis on endemic infectious diseases, reproductive health and nutrition) and
contributes to the strengtheningo f sector management and administrative capacity within MOH,
especially at provincial and district levels. CRESAN 2 i s expected to close in December 31,
2007. Other projects include the Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Project (US$20 million, closing
date: December 2007), Second Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Project (US$30 million, closing
date: December 2009), Community Development Fund (US$l78 million, closing date: June
2008), and Second Community Nutrition Project (US$47.6 million, closing date: December
2008).

7.       The proposed Madagascar SHSDP represents the next stage with respect to the World
Bank and other development partners' support for the health sector. There i s general consensus



                                                  2

among development partners that a sector investment and maintenance loan for financing the
support to the health sector is preferred to general budget support as the primary vehicle for
financing. There is widespread recognition that the challenges in health are too specific and the
sector is too fragmented to fully benefit from pure budget support, and that a transition phase of
sector specific support i s needed. The World Bank's Independent Evaluation Group (which
completed a country assistance evaluation inJuly 2006 of IDA'Sinvolvement inMadagascar for
1995-2005) also recommends limiting the role of budget support until there i s a sustained
improvement incollecting and managingpublic resources.

8.      The approachthat has beenusedinthe design of this sector investmentcredit is one that
encompasses the entire health sector and supports the health reform and scaling-up program of
the Government of Madagascar. Many development partners, including United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), World
Health Organization (WHO), UnitedNations Development Programme (UNDP), United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), Japanese International Cooperation Agency
(JICA), European Union (EU), African Development Bank (AfDB), Agence Franqaise de
De`ve`loppement (AFD) as well as the French Cooperation, are currently working in Madagascar
through parallel financing to address the dysfunctions and bottlenecks within the health care
system. The Madagascar SHSDP would add value by facilitating greater coordination among
development partnersandensuring that the ongoing interventions and support do not overlap, but
rather are synergistically related to one another and consistent with the Government of
Madagascar's vision for development results to be achieved in the sector. This intervention is
thus part of a more complex, multisectoral agenda inMadagascar, and one of its main functions
i s to coordinate efforts of various stakeholders in order to achieve greater cohesion. More
explicitly, given the on-going activities and the small amount of the proposed financing (US$l0
million), this project aims at building capacity within MOH and coordinating on-going
interventions in Madagascar and linking these closely to results. Based on a sector-wide
approach, Madagascar SHSDP embodies a process that has Government leadership as its starting
point and progressestowards increasedharmonization of implementation mechanisms and use of
country systems. What distinguishes this project from others before is the sustained, country-led
partnership among development partners and key stakeholders in support of country-owned
sector policies and strategies.

B. Rationale for Bank involvement

9.      The proposed operation is included in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Madagascar covering the period of 2007-11. Key CAS goals supported by the project include
"improving services to people" (Pillar I1 o f the CAS) and "achieving better outcomes in
education and health." In health, the focus in the CAS i s on helping the Government make
further progress on reducing child and maternal mortality by offering access to reproductive
services, reducing child malnutrition, improving the availability of clean water and sanitation
services, and keeping HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted disease rates under control. The
approach of the proposed Madagascar SHSDP - alignment with the government program as
outlined in the MAP, harmonization and coordination with other donors, and integrated sector-
wide approachto health-is consistent withthe CAS principles and approach.




                                                 3

10.     The rationale for the Bank's continued involvement in the health sector is strong.
Consolidation and scaling-up o f support for basic services in health is essential for Madagascar
to achieve progress towards meeting the MDGs. The current financial support provided by
CRESAN 2 will be exhausted by September 2007. The proposed Madagascar SHSDP will
sustain and gradually enhance IDA financing as well as leverage other donor financing for the
health sector in Madagascar within an agreed medium-termfiscal framework. The Bank i s in a
unique position to help Madagascar position itself to profit from scaling-up opportunities as they
arise and play a catalytic role in leveraging additional resources, including those from other
developmental partners. In line with IDA-14 goals on leveraging and partnerships, the IDA
commitment to the health sector will be critical in leveraging a large amount o f development
assistance from other donors. The Bank i s a nodal agency in a consortium that i s being put
together to support the health sector via the sector-wide approach. The consortium includes the
AfDB, AFD, the EU, the French Cooperation, JICA, UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, WHO, and the
World Bank.

11.     Madagascar SHSDP supports clear opportunities to boost progress on pro-poor and
potentially highimpact activities, including the immunization o f children, control of malaria, and
population and family planning. Finally, the Bank and other partners are well positioned to work
with the Government on challenges o f the health sector at the policy level. The involvement of
the Bank is important to bring Government, civil society, and development partners together
arounda common vision o f effective service delivery and improvedaccountability.

C. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

12.     Madagascar SHSDP supports the development o f the health sector inMadagascar, with a
strong focus on strengthening all aspects o f health systems, including production, financing,
delivery, stewardship and governance. The achievement o f the goals o f the sector wide program
will, inter alia, include reduction in maternal, child and infant mortality, fertility rate, chronic
malnutrition in children under the age o f three, HIV prevalence, and prevalence o f syphilis in
pregnant women. The successful adoption o f SHSDP i s expected to yield a number o f other
development benefits as well, including stronger country ownership and leadership, and greater
focus on results. In addition, the Sector-Wide Approach o f Madagascar SHSDP will encourage
and foster coordinated and open policy dialogue, guide allocation o f resources based on
priorities, and facilitate scaling-up o f benefits to entire sector. It will also enhance sector-wide
accountability with common fiduciary standards, and strengthenthe country's capacity, systems
and institutions.

13.     The project's fiduciary dimensions and focus on strengthening public budgeting,
financial management and procurement also fit with broader efforts in this direction supported
by other Bank projects, especially the fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC).
Channeling funds o f participating developmentpartners through a common and widely accepted
program o f reform will help strengthenoversight o f sectoral programs and will have externalities
beyondthe health sector. Activities under Madagascar SHSDP also emphasize transparency and
predictability in budgeting and sectoral planning and are thus in keeping with higher-level
objectives in governance and public sector, and public expenditure management reform. Aspects




                                                   4

o f the project and PDSS also respond to CAS objectives on stemming the decline inkey services
and addressing governance constraints to growth and poverty reduction.


11.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION

A. Lendinginstrument

 14.    The proposed project will be financed through a sector investment credit o f an amount
equivalent to US$10 million, implementedover a 30-month period from July 2007 to December
2009. The initial IDA financing will be pooled with contributions from the AFD (tentatively
US$15 million beginning January 2008), and supported through parallel financing by other
development partners, including AfDB (US$lO million), JICA (US$2 million), UNICEF (US$14
million), UNFPA (US$2 million), USAID (US$15 million), and WHO (US$lO million). The
European Union will continue to provide direct budget support to the Government of
Madagascar, which indirectly supports the health sector. This project is the first phase o f a longer
term program which, over time, would aim at results-based financing. At the end o f the two-and-
a-half years o f implementation, additional financing would be sought to continue support to the
medium-term objectives o f the MAP and PDSS through 2011.

B. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand key indicators

 15.     The project development objective o f Madagascar SHSDP is to contribute to the
strengtheningo fthe health system and enhance the institutional capacity o fM O Hto improve the
access and utilization o f health services, especially inrural andremote areas.

 16.     A series o f indicators will be used to monitor project, program and sector performance
under SHSDP. Since the engagement o fthe World Bank and use o f IDA resources will leverage
wider support for the MAP and provide the necessary technical expertise and support for
realization o f MAP'S objectives, Bank's performance will be measured by its ability to
harmonize resources and efforts o f all development partners, facilitate the measurement o f
results, strengthen capacity for measuring results; and improve management capacity within
MOH. A broader panel consists o f indicators tracking and measuring resources, processes,
outputs and outcomes will be used to monitor the objectives o f MAP and interventions under
PDSS. For each series o f indicators, the M O H will record the baseline value, confirm the
frequency o f monitoring and the institutions responsible for doing so, and set targets for
achievement by 2011. These are summarized indetail inAnnex 3.

C. Projectcomponents

 17.     Two fundamental guiding principles form the basis o f the proposed health project in
Madagascar. First, strengthening o f the health system (including the private sector) i s central to
ensuringthe production, financing and deliveryo f specific interventions such as those neededto
reduce infant, child and maternal mortality, improve maternal health, dramatically reduce
malaria, sexually transmitted infections, and HIV/AIDS, and improve the nutrition status o f
children inMadagascar. The health system encompasses all activities, organizations, governance
arrangements, and resources (public and private) dedicated primarily to improving, maintaining,


                                                  5

or restoring the health o f individuals and populations, and to prevent households from falling
into poverty or becoming further impoverished as a result o f illness. Second, health outcomes are
multi-sectoral innature, and are strongly influenced by income, education, access to clean water
and sanitation, access to clean indoor environments, good country governance, and sound
macroeconomic policy. Improving health outcomes, therefore, requires an effective multi-
sectoral approach to healthperformance and outcomes.

Table 1:Rc ationship between MAP bjectivesand Measui s to Strengthen H e !thSystem
                                                         1
                  Strengthening Delivery                  ManagementofHuman              Innovationsin Health         Stimulation demand

Provisionof       - Strengthenhealthcenters  to deliver   -Resourcesand
                                                            Contract     redeploy nurses -Financing                        Utilization
                                                                                           Developinnovative          -and
                                                                                                                        Organize
qualityhealth     basic packageofservices                 andmidwivesto all level 1and                                nationaVdistrict
services, esp. in - Ensureadequate                                                       provider payment
                                     supply of drugs      2 healthcenters                mechanismsto contract        campaignsto increase
remoteareas       -andequipment  at all healthcenters     - Improveworking   conditions  andredeploynurses and        awareness so as to
                    ProvideMobileHealthCenters for        of healthpersonnel, especially midwivesto all level 1 and   maximizeutilization
                  -remoteareas
                    Strengthencapacityand                 -inruralareas                  2 healthcenters              andeffectiveness
                                                            Trainnursesandmidwivesto     - Developinnovative
                  competenciesat decentralizedlevels      -deliverbasic healthservices   financingmethods,such as
                                                            Empowerdecentralized         social insuranceor social
                                                          levelsby transferringthe       security, to increasethe use
                                                          necessarycompetenciesand       of healthservicesby the
                                                          resourcesto better staffand    poor

Eradicationo f    - Strengthencapacityand                 -manage  healthcenters
                                                            Improvetraining ofhealth                                  - Organize
majordiseases     competenciesat decentralizedlevels      agentsto prevent,diagnose                                   nationaUdistrict
                  to manage andcoordinatecampaigns        andadequatelytreat                                          campaignsto increase
                  for vaccinationetc.and maximize                                                                     awareness so as to
                  -coverage                               -tuberculosis
                                                            Strengthencapacity o f                                    maximizeutilization
                    Strengthencapacityand                 privateservicesprovidersto                                  andeffectiveness
                  competenciesat decentralizedlevels      diagnoseandtreat STIs.
                  to manage andcoordinateeffective
                  control o fmalaria, including
                  spraying, bed-nets,etc.
                  - Ensureadequate   supplyof
                  equipmentand testing facilities at all
                  healthcenters for STIs
Implementation    - Strengthencapacity  and               - Improvetraining  of health   - Developinnovative          - Organizecampaigns
ofafamily         competenciesat decentralizedlevels      agents in family planning      financing strategiesto       to promote family
planning          to manage andcoordinatecampaigns                                       ensure sustainabilityand     planningand use of
strategy          for family planning
                  - Ensureapplicationofagreed                                            availability ofFamily        long-lasting
                                                                                         Planningprogramsand          contraceptive methods
                  quality standardsandprotocolsat all                                    trainingof healthagents in
                  healthcenters
Reduction in      - Ensureadequate   supply of services   - Improvetrainingofhealth      family planning              - Organizecampaigns
Infant and        anddrugs for infant andchildhealth      agents onuniformprocedures                                  to raiseawareness for
ChildMortality    at all healthcenters
                  - Strengthencapacity                    for dealingwith diseases in                                 improvedmanagement
                                        and               childrenunder 5
                  competenciesat decentralizedlevels      - Train                                                     of childrendiseases
                                                                  staffinhealthcenters
                  to organizeandmanage community          and first levelhospitalsin
                  agentsand healthworkers on              treating childrenandnew-born
                  uniformproceduresfor treating           babies
                  childrenunder5.
Reduction in      - Ensureadequate   supply of drugs      - Train allstaffinhealth                                    - Organizecampaigns
Maternal          and equipmentfor managementof           centersandfirst levelhospitals                              to mobilize
Mortality         pregnanciesanddeliveriesat all          inpregnancyanddelivery                                      communities for
                  healthcenters                           management
                  - Strengthencapacity                                                                                increasedutilizationo f
                                        and                                                                           maternalandneo-natal
                  competenciesat decentralizedlevels                                                                  services
                  to manage community agentsfor
                  implementationofthe roadmapfor
                  reductionofmaternalmortality.
Promotiono f      - Strengthencapacity  and                                                                          - Organizecampaigns
Hygienic          competenciesat decentralizedlevels                                                                 to promotewidespread
Practices         to organizeand managecommunity                                                                     utilizationof hygienic
                  agents for promotionofhygienic                                                                     practices, includingthe
                  practices                                                                                          WASH strategy



                                                                       6

18.     The designo f SHSDP has beendevelopedby M O H and the development partners on the
basis o f a matrix o f key healthprograms and interventions, inwhich the rows list the intervention
areas o f the MAP and the columns list the key elements of system capacity that need to be
strengthened.The project seeks to shift away from specific vertical interventions and strengthen
institutional arrangements o f the health sector, so as to increase the efficiency o f donor support
(including IDA resources) to the Government's health policy and programs. Table 1 shows the
relationship between MAP objectives and measures supported by SHSDP to strengthen key
systemic elements. M O H has full ownership o f this matrix and o f all the tasks listed in each o f
the cells, while the essential role o f the Bank is seen to be that o f providing assistance and
support through this project to stitch together the different elements o f the systemic and related
interventions. The Bank's role i s thus to guide the matrix and help the Government o f
Madagascar develop and use tools to track and monitor resource flows into the sector and to
develop and use tools that will help sectoral leadership track changes in health system
performance and healthoutcomes.

 19.     Activities and interventions directed toward control o f HIV-AIDS and malaria, currently
financed almost entirely by line interventions o f M O H and some development partners, are not
included as part o f SHSDP at this stage, but will be gradually integrated insubsequent stages.

20.      Madagascar SHSDP thus supports the four critical components as suggested by the four
columns inTable 1,which seek to improve health financing, delivery and management through a
programmatic approach encompassing strengthening delivery o f resources, developing and
managing human resources, improving health financing and management, and stimulating
demand and utilization o f health services. The fifth component o f SHSDP i s institutional
strengthening, which will support the capacity and ability o f M O H to track progress and make
necessary adjustments in the course o f implementation, and support the strengthening o f the
capacity o f M O H in various domains, including planning and programming, financial
management and procurement. Indicative allocations by component and by activity will be made
for the project period; however, the actual allocations will be adjusted based on the bi-annual
joint reviews by Government and its development partners inthe health sector and based on the
Government's Annual Work Program, as preparedby MOH. The detailed project description by
component i s inAnnex 4.

21.      Component 1: Strengthening Delivery of Health Services (US$5.3 million): This
component seeks to strengthen health service delivery and quality o f services at the primary and
first referral levels in districts through capacity building o f districts to better organize, manage
and deliver health goods and services, and provision o f goods and services to strengthen health
centers, including drugs, medical supplies and equipment.

22.      Component 2: Development and Management of Human Resources in the Health
Sector (US$U.9 million): The objective o f this component is to improve human resource
management in the health sector with particular emphasis on rural areas. To this end, this
component will finance development o f innovative mechanisms to provide incentives to rural
based personnel and promote enhanced performance o f such personnel, and training o f all health
personnel on basic health service delivery, such as diagnosis and treatment o f infectious diseases,
pregnancy and delivery management, and health care-for children and new-born babies.



                                                  7

23.     Component 3: Innovations in Health Financing Management (US$O.6 million): This
component seeks to support creative resource mobilization and strengthen health resource
allocation, through the development of a variety o f mechanisms designed to mobilize additional
health resources through programs such as social insurance, and through improved management
o f existing private and public funds for the health system.

24.     Component 4: Improving Demand and Utilization of Health Sewices (US$l.O5
million): This component will endeavor to stimulate demand for quality health services through
community education and awareness campaigns, and developing mechanisms for conditional
cashtransfers.

25.     Component 5: Institutional Strengthening (US$2.15 million): This component will
support a number o f system development and institutional strengthening activities, such as
procurement and financial management and program oversight. In addition, the component will
finance a number o f monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities, including development o f an
M&E plan, support to the National Health Information System and strengthening of
Government's analytical capacity for betteruse and management o f data.

26.     Activities undertaken under these components are expected to result in significant
improvements across a range o f demand-side, supply-side and institutional aspects o f the health
system, especially inthe productionand delivery o f quality services inrural and remote areas, in
both public and private sectors. Visible results are expected inthe deployment, effectiveness and
morale o f health teams at service delivery points, in particular in remote areas, accompanied by
less obvious but important changes inthe nature o f support provided to them by district, regional
and central level managers. Teams at the regional and district levels and at health care service
delivery points will work together to plan, implementand monitor their programs in compliance
with national priorities and strategies, and will be encouraged to systematically use quality
assurance methods to solve problems, work collaboratively with local authorities, NGOs and
other partners, and draw upon resources from outside o f the health budget to address health
problems intheir communities.


D. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design

27.     The design o f Madagascar SHSDP draws upon a number o f lessons learned from
international experience and from implementation o f a series o f health projects in Madagascar.
The following are the most important lessons:

28.     Needfor clear developmentgoals acceptable to all stakeholders. Also linked to this is the
needto agree on a coherent results chain and choose appropriate performance indicators that are
in line with the development objectives. These should then be used for systematic monitoring
and regular discussion o f implementationperformance with the Government.

29.     Importance of a comprehensiveand harmonizedapproach to the health sector. There i s
full agreement among the Government and the development partners on the need for a



                                                  8

comprehensive approach to decrease the burden on the health system at all levels o f the health
pyramid. The elaboration o f a common strategy in the form o f the PDSS was the first step in
moving towards a comprehensive and harmonized approach. This planning exercise has helped
both the Government and the donors to work inclose partnership and share information, so as to
develop an integrated and common strategy. By improving coordination and harmonization
among donors, Madagascar SHSDP i s expected to improve allocative efficiency by diminishing
transaction costs for the Government. Moreover, budget execution in the health sector is very
low in large part because M O H has problems in managing the available financial resources
because o f the difficulty o f coordinating and monitoring donors' projects, limited financial
absorption capacity, and heavy and complex procedures that vary from one donor to another.
Madagascar SHSDP should helpalleviate these difficulties.

30.      Technical assistance and capacity building in planning and management is critical to
success on the ground. Implementation experience from CRESAN 2 demonstrates the need for
substantial technical assistance to MOH, particularly in the areas o f planning, budget
management and tracking. Since the 1990s, several donors have been strengthening the
capacities at the health district level. The planning, programming and monitoring functions o f
regional and district health management teams have been strengthened through CRESAN 2,
which has supported 40 percent o f recurrent costs at the district level. The performance o f the
district management teams has improved as a result o f technical support and staff recruitment.
All but a few o f the districts are now able to formulate their three-year plans and develop annual
work programs using clear norms and criteria. Health system management at the district level i s
thus improving, although budget management capacity remains a major challenge. Experience
shows that bottom-up planning accompanied by capacity strengthening activities and flexible
financial resources to implement the activities are key elements for achieving results on the
ground. For example, budget execution i s much higher in CRESAN-supported districts than in
others. Further, while the internal state budget has little flexibility across categories o f
expenditures, the more flexible CRESAN allocation to districts has allowed them to carry out
innovative outreach activities to increase utilization ofpreventivehealthcare services.

31.     Analysis and use of datafor decision-making. Madagascar has already set up a system
o f routine data collection for the health sector, and a large number o f studies and surveys have
been undertaken. Unfortunately, much o f this information and data remains unused, and there i s
a pressingneedto develop analytical capacity withinthis system to ensure better use o f available
data. Further, the creation o f an integrated and comprehensive health sector monitoring and
evaluation system will be essential for project management and will facilitate periodic evaluation
o fprogress and decision-making.


E. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

32.      Support to the health sector through budget support under the Poverty Reduction Support
Credits was rejected because o f the relative fragility of the macro environment which would
expose the sector to economy-wide shocks outside the control o f the Government. Although in
recent years the Government has improved management o f these external shocks (such as
cyclones, oil price increase etc.), priority sectors cannot yet be insulated as necessary from such



                                                  9

 negative events. The perceived fragility o f public financial management, procurement systems
 and ministry efficiency in service delivery cautions against the use o f budget support for a
 ministry which provides vital services to the population. Based on this assessment, it was
 deemed critical to earmark funds for the health sector under Madagascar SHSDP. The use o f an
 Adaptable Program Loan was also considered given the phased programmatic approach.
 However, the development partners group did not want to condition subsequent phases o f
 investment. Thus a sector investment loan was considered to be the best option under the current
 circumstances.


111.     IMPLEMENTATION

 A. Partnershiparrangements,coordinationandimplementationsupport mechanisms

 33.     M O H will establish and agree on an Annual Work Program incooperationwith financing
 and implementing partners, consistent with the policy framework outlined in the PDSS and an
 estimated resource envelope for the following year. The Annual Work Program will also foresee
 appropriate technical assistance, training and institution strengthening measures to support the
 full integration o fplanningandmanagerial functions into the existingcore government agencies.
 A Memorandum o f Understanding signed by the Government and its development partners
 pooling their resources will outline organizational, institutional and coordination arrangements
 for implementation and the roles and responsibilities o f each partner. Cooperation with
 development partners and supervision will be coordinated by means o f bi-annual Health
 Summitsbetweenthe Government andimplementingagencies.

 B. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

 34.     M O H will be responsible for the overall oversight o f the national health program as well
 as o f Madagascar SHSDP. The Ministry's Management Team will function as the steering
 committee for oversight o f implementation o f project activities and monitoring o f progress to
 achieving development objectives. The existingproject coordination unit (PCU) for CRESAN 2
 will be utilized for the day-to-day coordination o f project activities. This PCU has already
 demonstrated its capacity both to manage IDA'S financial management and procurement
 procedures and to innovate effectively at all levels o f the health care system to improve the
 accessibility and quality o fhealth services.

 35.     In close collaboration with the Directorate o f Financial Affairs and the Directorate o f
 Planningwithin MOH, the PCU will be responsible for annual program planning and budgeting.
 MOH, through its Secretary General, will: (i) consistency o f program activities with the
                                                 ensure
 Government's policy and strategy; (ii)    approve the annual works program and budget; and (iii)
 follow-up on project performance and implementation progress. Specifically, the PCU will be
 responsible for program management including: (i)      coordination o f program implementation;
 (ii)consolidation o f district-level work programs and budgets; (iii)  maintenance o f records and
 separate accounts for all transactions related to the PCU; (iv) preparation, consolidation and
 production o f the program financial statements, quarterly financial management reports (FMRs)
 and other financial information required by the Government; (v) management o f the pooled
 account; and (vi) monitoring and evaluation o f the various activities supported under the project.


                                                 10

The PCU is currently headed by a Coordinator nominated by MOH, and existing staff include
specialists inaccounting, procurement andmonitoring and evaluation.

36.     The implementation o f program activities will be entrusted to: (i)     technical departments
o f MOH; and (ii)operating units at the regional/district levels, which will receive timely
payments from the PCU based upon submission o f satisfactory quarterly budgetedwork plans.
The operating units at the regional/district levels will manage disbursements from their ownbank
accounts. Under the supervision o f the financial officer(s), they will maintain records and
accounts for all transactions, and prepare financial report and other basic information on project
management/monitoringas requiredby the PCU.

37.     The PCU will continue reporting directly to the Secretary-General and will carry out
administrative tasks, including keeping accounts, organizing and overseeing procurement, and
overseeing activities carried out by other M O H directorates, districts or undertakenwith external
assistance. An in-depthcapacity assessment o f the PCU and M O H undertaken during appraisal
confirms that the PCU i s adequately staffed and that appropriate resources have been earmarked
to meet project implementationneeds.

38.     Bi-annualhealth summits will be led by M O H with the participation o f all stakeholders
and development partners as well as representatives from civil society, private sector and other
relevant ministries.Progress on the national program will be reviewed duringthese summits and
will provide input into the Annual Work Program for the Ministry. These Summits will also
allow evaluation o f progress in achieving the development objectives and towards the MDGs.
These discussions will also be used to fine-tune the project and the program to changes that
might occur inthe sector andto coordinate, at technical level, with all partners.

C. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults

39.     The five-year PDSS lays down a Results Framework to be used as the foundation for
several critical programmatic events and processes, including strategic planning, communication,
monitoring and evaluation, and learning. The Results Framework focuses on monitoring
resources, processes and outputs directly related to actions and activities implementedby MOH.
Inorder to assess the relevance, performance and success of ongoing and completed programs
and projects, three broad sets o f indicators will be used: (i) set to measure and track
                                                                      one
availability and use o f resources; (ii)one set to assess the effectiveness o f system processes, and
(iii) settomeasuretheoutputsresultingfromtheseprocesses.Finally, asetofoutcome
     one
indicators will be used for broad sector monitoring and attention by high-level policy makers and
development partners. Inaddition, the interventions supported by the World Bank and IDA will
be monitored through a parallel but related system that will track the specific inputs and results
that will be facilitated, enabled or procured through Bank and IDA involvement.

40.     The institutional arrangements for monitoring and evaluation under the Results
Framework will involve a progressive absorption o f the functions o f the PCU into the core
departments o f the Ministry. In the meantime, the PCU will be responsible for organizing the
collection, analysis, presentation and dissemination o f the four sets o f indicators, with the
technical support o f development partners. Data collection will mainly take place using the



                                                  11

existing reporting mechanisms. Overtime, a Center for Health Policy and Development will be
established within the Ministry, which would oversee the monitoring o f progress on the Results
Framework. Other functions o fthis body would include data analysis for decision making, health
policy analysis, and healthpolicy and management training.

D. Sustainability

41.       Although the Government will continue to rely on external assistance for health sector
financing in the foreseeable future, the Government will need to take steps to improve the
financing o f recurrent expenditures within the national budget. The Sector-Wide Approach
adopted for this project, based on the national health policy and an integrated annual budget, i s
expected to reduce the fragmentation o f financing provided to the sector, improve technical and
allocative efficiency o f public expenditures, and contribute to the sustainability o f investments.
Moreover, the alignment o f the national health budget and human resource strategy with the
agreed priorities would further enhance sustainability, especially since all development partners
would have a de facto vested interest in building the institutional capacity o f the Ministry to
make allocation and disbursementdecisions, implement strategies, and evaluate impact.

E. Critical risksand possiblecontroversialaspects

                                  Table2: Risks and Risk Mitipation Measures
 Risks                                  Risk ratingw/  RiskMitigation measures
                                        mitigation
 From Outputs to Objectives:                           A specificproject componentfocuses on identifying innovative
 Healthpersonneldo notwant to move      S              solutionsto attract qualifiedhealthpersonnelto rural areas.
 to rural areas.
 Projecttime is too short andresources  M              The projectis partof along termmulti-donor effort and aims
 limited to have a measurableimpact                    duringthe first two years at strengtheningthe healthsystems.
 Healthservice strengtheningdoesnot     M              A specific componentdeals with stimulatinghealthservice
 resultin utilization of healthservices                preventivebehavior as well support to the poorest
 Ministry moves away from agreed        M              The Bankhealthteam will work closelywith the macroteam to
 activitiesand redirectsown budget                     ensure budgettrackingby Financeandprotectcertainpriority
 resources away from agreed priorities                 programs.Government's commitmentto MAP goalsat the highest
                                                       levelhelpsmaintainfocus onpriorities.
 From Components to Outputs:                           The programincludes support to increasethe quality andquantity
 Demandfor basichealthservicesis         S             of services supplied. Demandstimulationactivitiesmaybe linked
 stimulatedbut supply cannot respond                   to capacity increases.
 Conditionalcashtransfersdo not         M              Experiencewith FANOME/ solidarity funds suggeststhat some
 reachthe intendedtarget population                    peoplemaybe left out of community-basedtargeting. The project
                                                       includesdevelopmentandpiloting of alternativetargeting
                                                       mechanisms.
 Riskof delays inthe productionof        S             Integrationofthe CRESAN2 accountingstaff into the PCU
 financialreports, andaudit maynot be                  structure. Elaborationandimplementationof an accounting
 conductedin compliancewith                            manual o fproceduresandorganizationoftraining for staff.
 internationalauditingstandards.                       Reviewofthe CRESAN 2 computerized accountingsystem in
                                                       order to satisfy reportingrequirements.Recruitmentof an
                                                       internationalauditingfirm acceptableto IDA to carry out annual
                                                       auditsofthe projectfinancial statements.
 OverallRiskRating                      M
                                                      I




                                                         12

 F. Loadcreditconditionsandcovenants

 42.     Conditions and covenants pertainingto the credit include the following:

 (a) Board Conditions: (i)Opening o f pooled account in a local commercial bank under
 conditions acceptable to donors.

 (6) Conditions of Effectiveness: (i) Establishment o f an internal audit department within MOH;
 and (ii)Adoption o fproject implementationmanual and the project accounting manual.

 (c) Financial Covenants: (i) PCU shall maintain records and accounts in accordance with
                               The
 sound accounting practices; (ii) Financial statements shall be audited bi-annually by independent
 auditors acceptable to IDA; (iii)Independent auditors will be appointed within four months after
 the effectiveness date; and(iv) PCUwill produce quarterlyFMRs.


IV.      APPRAISAL SUMMARY

 A. Economicand financialanalyses

 43.     The underlying rationale for Madagascar SHSDP - the need for the Government to
 improve budget sustainability by incrementally increasing public financing for the health sector,
 mitigating allocative and technical inefficiencies, improving targeting o f resources for vulnerable
 groups and high priority health programs, and for reducing fragmentation in donor support and
 strengtheninglinkageswithMAP andPDSS-is a valid one.

 44.     With less than US$300 per capita and about 70 percent o fits population livinginpoverty,
 Madagascar i s one o f the poorest countries inthe world. After becoming independent in 1961the
 country witnessed a long period o f economic decline due to poor governance and protectionist
 and inward looking policies. Two liberalization episodes in the late 1980s and 1990s improved
 economic performance. After the second episode, the country experienced a period o f growth
 powered by the dynamisms o f the industries that benefited from preferential trade access.
 Between 1997 and 2001,GDP grew at about 4 percent per year, while inflation was kept under
 control. However, the political crisis in 2002 halted this trend as GDP dropped by about 13
 percent. After 2002 the new Government's sound macroeconomic management was able to
 consolidate the gains o f previous liberalizations and, despite large external shocks, growth
 resumedand has continued at about 5 percent per year. Despite all this progress many challenges
 remain given the country's low socioeconomic indicators and the government's difficulties in
 mobilizing internal resources. Fiscal resources have never beenabove 11percent o f GDP and the
 country depends more and more on highly unpredictable foreign funds.

 45.    Madagascar spends very little on health, a situation that will worsen once donor financed
 projects close. According to the National Health Accounts 2003, Madagascar spent about US$12
 per capita on healththat year, corresponding to about 3.5 percent o f GDP. At the cd-rent level o f
 expenditures, the country will not be able to achieve the health-related MDGs. MOH, with the
 support o f UNICEF, calculated that an additional US$5.40 per capita would be needed in the
 nextthree years to achieve a 41 percent reduction inchildmortality and a 35 percent reduction in


                                                  13

neonatal and maternal mortality needed to sustain progress in achieving these MDGs. This
financing gap cannot be lessened inthe short runwith internal resources giventhe Government's
macroeconomic constraints.

46.     The Government is unlikely to sustain even these low levels o f expenditures on health,
much less achieve the expenditure levels o f the MediumTerm Expenditure Framework (MTEF),
without additional financial aid from the donor community. The CRESAN 2 project, which has
supported financially the health sector since 1999, is scheduled to close inDecember 2007. This
project alone increased the funding o f the ministry by US$40 million. For instance, in2004 this
project financed close to 31 percent of all M O H expenditures classified as investments. This
figure rose to 65 percent in 2005. Other projects that have also supported the sector are also
approaching their closing dates, including the Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Project (US$20
million), which will close inDecember 2007, and the Community Development Fund (US$ 176
million), which will close inDecember 2008.

47.     Madagascar SHSDP aims at filling this gap while at the same time lessening some of the
public expenditure management bottlenecks confronting the Government, including volatility o f
donor funds and large transaction costs created by projects with different management and
reporting mechanisms. Inaddition, the proposed project will contribute to lessening some o f the
distortions created by the fragmented foreign aid, especially as all donors agree not only to
support a health strategy with a corresponding MTEF, and to progressively harmonize their
procedures to follow a unique monitoring and evaluation system. This coordination and
harmonization between donors will lessen the volatility o f donor support and will decrease the
transaction costs of the ministry as it would not need to follow different procedures to manage
differentprojects.

48.     Government intervention in some o f the activities financed by Madagascar SHSDP i s
justified as they are aimed at reducing market failures due to the presence o f externalities or
public goods. Infectious diseases, particularly malaria, are the major causes o f mortality and
morbidity in Madagascar, especially among children under five. SHSDP will finance many
activities aimed at prevention and treatment o f many o f these diseases, such as immunization for
childhood illnesses, testing and treatment o f sexually transmitted diseases, etc. In addition,
SHSDP will finance activities aimed at reducing the inequalities in access and utilization o f
health services. Some o f these activities will also improve efficiency in the use o f public
resources.

49.     There are large income inequalities in the utilization o f health services in Madagascar,
due partly to lower physical access to health services in rural isolated areas, and partly to
financial and cultural barriers to access services. The recurrent budgeto f the ministryof health i s
unequally distributed across regions, and in general, richer regions receive higher amounts o f
recurrent budget per capita than poorer regions. This partly reflects an unequal distribution o f
qualified medical personnel, which benefits richer urban areas, and partly the higher
concentration o f health facilities in better-off regions. SHSDP will seek to lessen this unequal
distribution o f resources by financing the development o f mechanisms to provide services in
underservedareas. The project will also finance the re-deployment of medical personnel to these
underserved areas.



                                                  14

50.     An estimated 39 percent o f all resources managed by M O H were spent on ambulatory
services provided by basic health centers (centres de sante' de base - CSBs) and hospitals, 17
percent on preventive and public health services, and 7 percent on inpatient care. Ingeneral, the
distribution o f public resources in the health sector gives priority to the most cost effective
interventions to ensure health improvements as the largest percentage was used for both
preventive and public health services and ambulatory care. However, there is room for
improvement, as a fifth o f all resources go to the central administration o f the ministry and as
many resources, about 0.5 percent o f the entire budget o f 2006, went to the construction o f a
medical complex in Antananarivo. SHSDP will further improve the allocative efficiency o f
public expenditure as it will finance preventive care, public health activities, and first referral
hospitals for activities relatedto maternal health. More specifically, the focus o f SHSDP is inthe
most cost-effective interventions to prevent and treat the illnesses that represent the major burden
o f disease in Madagascar by focusing on health interventions that can be provided by the
households and communities themselves and for those that can be provided at primary health
care facilities. This i s reflected in the project's emphasis on consumer awareness campaigns,
strengthening of community participation on health care, and on improving the quality o f the
services provided at health centers. By improving coordination and harmonization among
donors, Madagascar SHSDP will also improve allocative efficiency by diminishing transaction
costs and thus diminishing administrative costs o f M O H when handling different donor
supported projects.

51.     The benefits o f the proposed project can also be determined in terms o f systems and
process related benefits, e.g., better planning, financing, organization and management o f the
health sector and other key actors, and household-oriented benefits, as exemplified by better
access and utilization o f health services and improved health status, especially o f vulnerable
groups living inrural areas, women and children.

B. Technical

52.     The project will rely on simple, cost-effective and widely available techniques to address
priority health issues. In some problem areas, new strategies will be studied and tested. The
project components have been prepared on the basis o f international as well as regional norms
and practices, and will be implementedin accordance with acceptable standards. Decisions on
civil works and equipment necessary to expand and upgrade the health delivery system will be
made based on an approved Health Infrastructure Development Plan (Carte Sanitaire), and on
standardized architectural plans and list o f equipments, discussed and agreed with Government
and donors. Investments and recurrent costs estimates for the project have been based on
estimates o f prevailing market unit costs, with appropriate allowance for inflation. A reasonable
level o fphysical contingencies has beenincluded inthe cost estimates.

53.     The Strengthening o f decentralized health services, nationwide, will require significant
investmentsto strengthenmanagement and planning capacities at provincial and district levels.
Accordingly, the project will support capacity building activities at all levels. Capacities to
properly maintain buildings and equipment will also be strengthened at provincial and district
levels and a greater involvement o f the private sector will be sought. Lastly, the project will also
strengthen the capacity o f selective technical programs dealing with sector priority problems



                                                  15

such as infectious diseases, nutrition, family planning, and emerging diseases, such as
HIV/AIDS.

C. Fiduciary

54.    Procurement. The third Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for
Madagascar was conductedinNovember 2002, and as a result of reforms undertaken, the new
procurementcode was adopted on July 2004, with simplification of procedures and compliance
with international standards. To ensure that the new regulations are adequately applied, provide
sufficient oversight and control, and improve efficiency through proper delegation of
responsibilities,newprocurement institutions havebeenestablished, and the legal texts, such as
decreesfor implementationand standardbiddingdocuments,were issued. Duringthe preparation
ofthe proposedproject, the World Bankteam agreedwith the Borrowerthat IDA Guidelines and
StandardBiddingDocuments (SBDs) would be widely used. To mitigate risks of delays for the
proposedproject,properprerequisitesfor the use ofBank SBDs, includingevaluationreportsfor
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures were agreed upon with Government during
negotiations. The existing Project Implemental Manual (PIM) will be updated to reflect the
arrangementsfor the proposedproject.

55.     A Procurement Capacity Assessment of MOH, including training needs and
arrangements, was conducted as part of the project preparation. MOH has proposed that the
existingprocurementunit ofthe CRESAN2 will continue to function as the procurementunit for
the new project and in accordance with the provisions of the Procurement Code. This unit i s
adequately staffed with two procurement officers and an assistant. On the basis of the
assessment, it was agreed that the PCU will maintain these staff members and will keep
transactions separatebasedon source of financing. Nevertheless,the PIMwill needto be revised
to address the needsfor the new project.This updatewill needto be completedby effectiveness.
Moreover, the organization of the procurement filing needs to be reviewed and procurement
training undertakenfor PCU staff on the new features of the Bank's procedures in accordance
with 2004 Guidelines. As part of supervision missions and in addition to regular post
procurement reviews, independent procurement and technical audits will be carried out as
needed.

56.     Financial management. The conclusion of the financial management assessment i s that
the existing PCU for CRESAN2 and the relatedoperating units of the MOH satisfy the Bank's
minimum financial management requirements specified in OP/BP 10.02. However, some
improvementswill be neededto further strengthenthe financial management system and allow
efficient use of report-baseddisbursement.

57.     To efficiently address the challenges of the proposed project, a financial management
planhas beendeveloped and agreed uponwith MOHto ensure an environmentwhich mitigates
fiduciary risk. This plan includes measures to be taken prior to effectiveness and actions to be
implemented in the medium-term. As a result, transitional financial management arrangements
will need to be establishedwhile the sectorhational fiduciary systems are being strengthened.
Measures to be taken are the following:




                                               16

   Availability o f a qualified technical assistant acquainted with both national financial
   management system and Bank financial management procedures to strengthen the financial
   management capacity o f the M O H and specially the Direction Administrative et Financier
   andsupervise the financial management aspects o fall programs to be implementedby MOH;
   Extension o f the contracts o f the 17 financial management officers recruited under CRESAN
   2 to: (i) the regional operating unitswith necessary capacities to quickly disburse and
            provide
   account for project funds; (ii)  ensure, at the regional and district levels, the use o f funds for
   the purposes intended; and (iii)assure timely preparation o f periodic financial reports
   required for proper monitoring o f activities implemented by regional operating units, with
   respect to financial and physical aspects;
   Elaborationo f a chart o f accounts to satisfy the requirements o f the borrower, IDA and other
   development partners infinancial/accounting/technical information related to the program;
   Update and implementation o f the Program Accounting Manual to ensure consistent
   application o f policies and operating instructions, proper record keeping and adequate
    safeguarding o f assets. This manual spells out procedures to be applied not only at the central
   but also at the regionallevels;
    Customizing and upgrading the computerized accounting system acquired within the context
    o f CRESAN 2 in order to: (i)    meet user needs; (ii) the Government, IDA and other
                                                           satisfy
    donor financialhechnical information requirements; and (iii)ensure timely production o f
    annual financial statements and quarterly FMRsfor monitoring program activities;
    Creation o f an internal audit department within M O H to enhance internal controls and
    address areas o f concern identified during program implementation. This department will be
    staffed with an adequate number o f auditors, and will collaborate closely with the General
    Inspectorate for Finance once it i s fully functional;
   A Pooled Account will be opened in a commercial bank (BFV: Bank for Trade
   Development) in the name o f M O H to receive credit/grant proceeds from IDA and AFD as
   well as other donors who maywishto pool funds; and
    Three regional accounts will be opened in a commercial bank to deposit funds from the
    Pooled Deposit account inorder to ensure prompt payment o f contractors/suppliers operating
    inthe regions.

58.     To mitigate risks raised by the limited capacity o f the Auditor General (Chambre des
Comptes) the partners and Government agreed that, as an interim measure, an international
private auditing firm acceptable to donors will carry out the audit o f the program accounts jointly
with the Auditor General. This audit will be performed bi-annually and conducted inaccordance
withInternational Standards ofAuditing. The auditors will berecruitedwithinthree months after
the effectiveness date. The audit report will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after
the end o f each period. No significant problems have been encountered so far interms o f audit
covenants: all audit reports related to Bank-financed projects inMadagascar have been received
induetime.

59.     To build and strengthen the financial management capacity o f M O H staff at all levels, a
capacity building program i s being developed in the medium-termthrough the ongoing public
financial management reforms supported by IDA (Governance and Institutional Development
Project) and other development partners. Institutional strengthening activities are also being
undertaken under Component 5 o f this project. A technical assistant will be also recruited within



                                                  17

three months after credit effectiveness to strengthen MOH in project financial management and
supervise the financial management aspects of all programs to be implementedby the Ministry.

D. Social

60.     A poverty and social impact analysis carried out in 2005 highlighted the absence o f
citizen involvement inmonitoring service quality inhealth as well as a lack o f empowerment o f
local health committees, which represent a key focus o f community level involvement in the
health system. Moreover, Madagascar's physical characteristics o f having numerous remote and
difficult to access areas makes it difficult to rely only on top-down supervisionto monitor quality
and performance o f the 2,240 CSBs. The poverty and social impact analysis found that poor
quality o f services was one of the two key factors limiting use o f public health centers, the other
constraint beingfinancial.

61.     Inthis context, the quality of health services could be improved ifthere was support for
engaging local communities in the monitoring o f health quality, and if the accountability and
transparency o f the relationship between the service providers and users was strengthenedat the
local level. Social accountability mechanisms need to be established in order to provide
community memberswith simple but effective reporting mechanisms as well as sensitize themto
service norms and rightsand responsibilities o f various actors inprovision o f health care.

62.     Experience with the application o f social accountability mechanisms in other countries
highlights their effectiveness in reducing absenteeism, improving treatment o f clients, and
increasingutilization o f health services. Such mechanisms may also provide greater transparency
and demand for timely allocations from the communes to pay for medicine dispensers and
guards. Empowering the health committees to apply pressure on the mayors' office to allocate
these funds for training them and providing them with transport allowances to participate in
health management committees also help. These represent relatively small investments, since the
potential payoff can be large, especially given the critical role played by the dispenser in
providing drugs, an essential element inaccess and quality o fhealth care.

63.     An ongoing pilot is testing andadapting a community score card to the health sector, and
i s expected to provide valuable lessons on how such mechanisms could be adapted and more
systematically integrated into the health sector monitoring. A draft implementation manual has
been developed, and could be usedfor eventually scaling up these mechanisms. These pilots are
being tested both in areas in which top-down performance and quality enhancement programs
are inplace as well as inareas without these programs.

64.     Duringthe pilot stage, the Community Scorecard mechanism was selected because it was
a more accessible mechanism for a wider variety o f actors, and did not require sophisticated
statistical or analytical skills. The proposed social accountability mechanisms would directly tie
into the multiple activities o f the project, including development and management o f human
resources in the health sector, improving demand and utilization o f health services, and
monitoring and evaluation.




                                                   18

E. Environment

65.     The proposed project has been classified as Category B for environmental screening
purposes, given the risks associatedwiththe handling and disposal o fmedical wastes.

F. Safeguard policies

66.     The only safeguardtriggered is the environmental assessment, because a Medical Waste
Management Plan (MWMP) is required. The Project does not trigger any o f the Banks social
safeguard's policies, since land will not be acquired and civil works will be limited to
rehabilitation of existing infrastructures. Although the project may finance malaria campaign
activities as a lender of last resort if the Presidential Malaria Initiative i s not able to sufficiently
finance the malaria program, Madagascar has ratified the Stockholm convention in2005, and the
Government does not planto use any DDT in spraying during the Bank Project implementation
period.

67.     A MWMP was developed for the Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (MSPP),
andis under implementation. Since that date, MOHhas installed 200 small-scale burnersto burn
medical wastes inall 200 health centers rehabilitated under CRESAN 2. The construction of full
incinerators at district level is underway, and some are already functional. The MWMP also
specifies medical waste disposal and management actions that are to be carried out in the
different,types ofhealth facilities.

68.     The National Policy on Medical Waste Management was adopted in September 2005.
This policy primarily relates to solid waste with a summary description on the liquidwaste, and
contains the following elements: (i)      global and specific objectives as regards management of
medical waste; (ii) the legal framework and law; (iii) characteristics with the prescribed
                                                           waste
elimination modes; (iv) norms, safety standards and measures to be adopted as well as critical
equipment; and (v) a description of the monitoring system and an action plan with impact and
results indicators for a period of four years. The Government recently modified the plan and
policy to include more details on the management of liquid waste from health facilities. The
revised plan was approved and disclosed on March 23, 2007 in the Infoshop and disclosed in-
country over the periodMarch 20-26,2007.

69.     MOH has demonstrated clear ownership of the problems related to management o f
medical waste, as well as the ability to plan for and prepare these activities. It has been an
integral player in the development of this policy as well as information, education and
communication activities andtraining conductedat various levels.




                                                   19

                                           Table 3: Safeguard Policies
  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                      Yes                  No
  Environmental Assessment (OPBP 4.0 1)                                            [XI                   [I
  Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                     [I                    [XI
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                         [I                    [XI
  Physical Cultural Resources (OPBP 4.11)                                          [I                    [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                             [I                    [XI
  Indigenous Peoples(OPBP 4.10)                                                    [I                    [XI
  Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                              [I                    [XI
  Safety of Dams(OPBP 4.37)                                                        [I                    [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OPBP 7.60)*                                            [I                    [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OPBP 7.50)                                  [I                    [XI

G. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

70.      Policy Exception. The proposed project does not require any exceptions from Bank
policies.

71.      Readiness. The main design parameters and operating systems for the project were
established under CRESAN 1 and 2. The project i s deemed ready for implementation, subject to
fulfillmentofthe conditions for effectiveness.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                            20

                    Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background
                 Madagascar Sustainable Health System Development Project

I. MACROECONOMIC           DEVELOPMENTS

72.     Madagascar has witnessed a remarkable downturn since becoming independent in 1961,
with real per capita GDP declining by over 25 percent duringthe last four decades to US$290 in
2005. Caused in part by inward looking, highly protectionist policies and poor governance,
Madagascar's disappointing economic outcome has resulted in a deterioration o f physical and
human capital. Two liberalization episodes inthe late 1980s and 1990s led to growth but proved
short lived. The reforms o f the late 1990s, aided by preferential trade access, resulted in export-
oriented, private-sector led growth, averaging over 4 percent during 1997-2001. This progress
was interrupted by a political crisis over the contested 2002 elections that resulted in an
economic crisis, with GDP declining by 13 percent inthat one year alone. However, the political
crisis did bring to power a democratic force with a reform agenda and renewed hope for a more
prosperous future.

73.     Indeed, good progress has beenachieved since the political and economic crisis o f 2002.
Prudent macroeconomic management following the crisis created an environment conducive to
economic rebound, reaping the fruits o f previous liberalization reforms. Despite exogenous
shocks such as cyclones and high oil prices, the macro-economic situation stabilized and the
economy grew at about 10 percent in 2003 and has since continued to grow at respectable 5
percent. Growth has come largely through improved performance in agriculture, especially
higher rice production, higher tourism receipts, and continued public investments. Despite
increases in world petroleum prices, a tight monetary policy has resulted in a decline in annual
inflation from 27 percent in end-2004 to 10 percent in mid-2006. Similarly, the measures
adopted to ensure exchange rate stability and competitiveness, and to secure an adequate level o f
international reserves were broadly successful leading to greater stability o f the market-
determined exchange rate in 2005. The government has also taken steps to confront corruption
and to improve the quality o f public sector governance. In an effort to improve public resource
management and strengthen the system o f delivery o f public services, the government i s
preparing a legal framework for decentralizationto the level o f communes.

74.     High growth has also resultedin improvements inbasic social indicators, albeit from a
low base. More children are in school today, and net primary enrolment rates exceed 90 percent.
Immunization rates have improved and the number o f births assisted by skilled medical
personnel has increased. Infant and child mortality rates have declined significantly over the last
decade and chronic malnutrition has decreased. Similarly, progress has been made on reducing
poverty, which declined to 70 percent from its peak level o f 80 percent at the time o f the 2002
crisis. With the implementation o f the roads program inrural areas, rural population with reliable
access to transport increased from 45 percent in 2003 to 57 percent in 2005. Access to safe
drinkingwater inrural areas also improved duringthis period.

75.     These positive developments are encouraging, but there i s still a long way to go given
where Madagascar i s today relative to the rest o f the world. The macroeconomic situation
remains fragile, especially as revenue mobilization remains weak. Poverty rates are still very


                                                21

high while social indicators are very low, and Madagascar is not likely to reach the poverty
alleviation and health-related MDGs. The country also continues to face fiscal problems, with
significant revenue shortfalls incustoms and tax collections leading to a decline intax revenues.
Although the economy has been on a rebound in the last two years, the capacity o f the
Government to raise revenue remains severely constrained. Moreover, external aid has been
dwindling inrecent years. As a result, overall government expenditureis falling inrealterms and
public spending on social programs is declining both in real terms and as a percent o f the
Government budget.

11.      HEALTH       SECTOR

Health Status and Outcomes

76.                 The last decade witnessedmarkedhealth improvements inMadagascar, especially
among children. According to the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), infant and child
mortality fell by 43 percent and 41 percent, respectively, between 1997 and 2004. Although
some issues have been raised regarding the reliability o f these marked drops in mortality, other
determinants o f child survival - such as morbidity and coverage o f important health
interventions - have also improved. For instance, the prevalence o f diarrhea in children
decreased about 63 percent and the proportion o f anemic children fell about 31 percent between
1997 and 2004. At the same time, vaccination, vitamin A supplementation, and exclusive
breastfeeding increased.

             TableI:Neonatal, Infant, Child, and Maternal Mortality, Madagascar, 1997-2004
                                             Neonatal             Infant             Under-5           Maternal
1997                                         40.4                 96.3                159.2            488
200312004                                    31.6                 57.8               93.9              469
Source: DHS 1997, 2003/2004. Note: maternal mortality is expressedper 100,000 live births among children born in thefour
years before the survey.

77.      Maternal mortality has remained stable at about 470 per 100,000 live births since 1997,
jeopardizing the likelihood that Madagascar will reach this MDG by 2015. While antenatal care
has increased to 80 percent and the presence of skilled staff at birth has increased from 47
percent to 54 percent, the full benefit o f skilled attendance at birth can only be realized if the
referral system, comprising all o f the essential elements o f access to the whole spectrum o f
obstetric care including emergency services, i s fully functional. Some progress has been
achieved in recent years in addressing this challenge through such means as establishment o f
better communication networks between primary and first level referral facilities using solar
based radios, strengthening o f blood banks at district level, provision o f ambulances and
obstetric care equipment and the rehabilitation and re-equipping o f some district and referral
facilities. Moreover, deaths due to abortion contribute significantly to the maternal mortality rate
(40 percent in rural areas, and approximately 52 percent inAntananarivo alone), suggestingthat
improved access to family planning advice and services would considerably improve maternal
health in the medium-term. Overall, significantly more intensified efforts are needed for more
systematic improvements in referral services and emergency obstetric care, particularly in rural
areas.



                                                          22

78.     Communicable diseases, especially malaria, diarrhea, and respiratory track infections,
often in association with malnutrition, are the main causes o f mortality and morbidity in the
country, mainly among children under five. The M O H statistical yearbook 2004 shows that 24
percent o f outpatient consultations are due to respiratory track infections, followed by 18 percent
due to fever (suspected malaria), and 8 percent due to diarrheal illnesses. Among children under
five, respiratory track infections, suspected malaria, and diarrheas represented 33 percent, 22
percent, and 14 percent o f primary health care consultations in 2004. Most vaccine preventable
diseases seem to be under control inMadagascar - indicative o f highvaccination coverage -and
in2004 less than 1percent o f all children's consultations at the primary health care level were
due to measles.

79.     Although the prevalence o f HIV/AIDS in the country remains low, it has rapidly
increased among highrisk groups. With a prevalence o f about 1percent among pregnant women
(overall, there were an estimated 180,000 persons were living with HIV in 2005) HIV/AIDS in
the country still does not represent the heavy burden it does in other Sub-Saharan African
countries. While knowledge o f HIV/AIDS satisfactorily progressed between 1997 and 2003/04
from 69 percent to 79 percent for women, and to 88 percent for men, behavior change has lagged
behindamong high-riskgroups inhot spot areas as well as among the general population. Since
the establishment o f the Comite` National de Lutte contve le SIDA (CNLS) to implement the
HIV/AIDS program, a sector-wide approach has beenput inplace with the mainpartners(World
Bank, Global Fund, AfDB, USAID, GTZ, UNICEF, UNAIDS, etc.) to implement numerous
activities (information,   education, mass media communication, cinemobiles in villages,
distribution of STI treatment kits, etc.). The CNLS is rightly reorienting its strategy to: (i)
concentrate activities on behavioral change and inthe most high risk zones; (ii)    strengthen mass
and peer communication on STI, HIV testing, and reduction o f stigma; (iii)         develop routine
testing, and voluntary counseling; and (iv) strengthen public private partnerships as a way to
address the weakness o f public health services.

80.     Bilharziosis, lymphatic filariases, tuberculosis, leprosy and malaria also represent a large
health burden to the population. Bilharziosis affects about two and a half million people in
Madagascar, mostly inthe western and central parts o f the country. Lymphatic filariases affects
all areas o f the country but especially the poor rural coastal areas. In some o f these areas, the
prevalence i s thought to be higher than 50 percent. Tuberculosis also represents an important
health burdeninthe country with an estimated 20,000 cases per year with a detectionrate o f only
62 percent. Finally, despite markedreductions in the incidence o f leprosy, Madagascar remains
one o f the few countries inthe world that has not eradicated this disease. By end 2005 it had the
highest registeredprevalence in the world (2.5 per 10,000). While Madagascar has made some
headway on the control o f malaria, tuberculosis and leprosy, these efforts have lost some ground
mainly due to delays in access to resources, and the deterioration o f the existing surveillance
system. Madagascar has secured sizable resources for the control o f malaria, tuberculosis and
HIV/AIDS treatment mainly through the Global Fundgrant facility. Recently however, delays in
implementation have occurred due lengthy processes in defining appropriate strategies (e.g., for
malaria) or delays in access to available funds. Nevertheless, social marketing o f highly
subsidized permanently impregnatedbednets have increased mother and child prevention inthe
coastal regions. Diagnosis and treatment o f tuberculosis improved with the expansion o f the
directly observed therapy system and increased drug availability nationwide.



                                                 23

                                                            i n t ~ ~ e to improve~child sttwivtrl has
                                                                            ~ ~ ~ o      s
                                                           stfeeding. the use o f oral
                                                                     have markedly iiicr
                                                                      p    ~   ~ prctd
                                                                                    ~     ~    ~     c   ~ ~ ~ c
                                           cnts in child survival.




83.     Thcre are large s ~ ~ c i o - e ~ o~ iif~f e~r e~n~~ieins~rho coverago of ~
                                                             i                        a of~the high impact
                                                                                               y
heafth i I ~ ~ e ~ ~e es ~~ ~~ icthoses~needed to improve child survival. For ~ ~ s ~the percent *
                                oi ~a    ~~ ~                                                    a ~ ~ e
of childreti M y ~     ~     ~is 2.5rtimes~ her among the richrst ~ perccrit of the p ~ p ~ l ~ ~ i ~
                                                   ~       ~        i   ~     20   d
than among the poorest 20 percent. In the case of vitamin A ~ ~ p p l e r n e thet socio- ~ ~ ,  ~   ~ ~ ~
economic ~ i ~ ~ e rarenmuch ~lower but still persist. These d i f ~ e r also~ reflect~ Fhe failure or
                       e    c ~                                                   ~    ~ e
the health system to react1the l?#ortlsts ~ ~ ~of"cthe~p i ~ s~ u l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
                                                                     ~

25

does not have access to a safe source o f drinking water. Improving this situation does not depend
only on MOH, but these interventions will have a highimpact on health.

Organization of the Health System

87.      The health delivery system in the country follows a four-level pyramidal system. The
basic health centers (centre de sante' de base  - CSB IandCSB11)arethefirstpointofcontactin
the system. In2004, there were 1,106 CSB Iand 1,842 CSB I1spread across the entire country
and catering to approximately 10,000 people each. In addition, there are 85 district-level
hospitals in district headquarters (centre hospitalier de district       -   CHD I)based in district
headquarters but offering similar services to those offered in a CSB 11. The second step in the
pyramid is made up o f 55 CHD I1 hospitals (2004), also based in district headquarters but
offering emergency surgery and comprehensive obstetrical care. At the third level there are 4
regional hospitals (centre hospitalier regional - CHR) in the whole country, offering second
referral services. At the fourth level, there are six university hospitals (centre hospitalier
universitaire -CHU) offering comprehensive nationalreferral services.

88.      The public sector - and especially the primary health care facilities (CSB Iand 11) -
offers the bulk o f health care services in the country, especially in rural areas. In urban areas,
more than 30 percent o f first contacts with the health system occur in a public primary health
care facility, while in rural areas more than 70 percent o f all first contacts occur at a public
facility. O n the other hand, the private sector accounts for about 30 percent o f all first contacts in
urban areas and about 14 percent in rural areas. Overall, more than 40 percent o f consultations
take place at private providers among the richest 20 percent o f the population. The private sector,
mainly concentrated inurban areas, also represents an important share o f service delivery. About
one out o f every five primary health care facility and two out o f every five referral hospitals are
privately owned. The majority o f these facilities are concentrated in Antananarivo and other
major cities. The private sector has an even larger presence inthe retail sale o f pharmaceuticals.
There are 203 pharmacies, located mainly inAntananarivo, and 1,625 drug retailers distributed
throughout the country.

          Table 3: Consultationat public andprivatefacilities, by income quintiles (EPM2005)
                    CH*        CSB 1       CSB 2      Private Clinic Private doctor Other     Total
Urban
Most poor              20.1       18.6        38.8         3.1            3.2          16.2      100
2emeQuintile           14.9       11.3        31.6         5.9           24.3          11.3      100
3emeQuintile           20.4       14.7        25.4         16.3          13.2          8.8       100
4emeQuintile           11.2       10.5        29.4         8.1           31.9           7        100
Most rich              23.3        4.9        20.6         7.5           32.7           7        100
Total                  19.0        9.5        26.2         8.3           26.0          8.6       100
Rural
Most poor               5.1       25.5        58.0         0.9            6.2          4.1       100
2emeQuintile            4.9       19.0        53.9         2.1            7.0          13        100
3emeQuintile            3.5       12.9        56.9         3.0           12.6          11.3      100
4emeQuintile            1.2       11.6        66.9         2.1           11.4          6.9       100
Most rich               5.7       10.0        50.8         3.6           20.4          7.4       100
Total                   4.0       15.1        57.3         2.5           12.2          8.6       100



                                                  26

Financingof the Health Sector

89.       Foreign aid reprcscnts the largest source of finance for the ~ e a system, followed by~ ~ h
public and private funds. Thc 2001 NIL4 exercise e s ~ i ~ a t ethat donor funds represented 37
                                                                                   d
percent o f all filnances ~         ~to theohestthsector. ~ u n~ lfunds represent about 32 percen~ofrhe
                                                       ~       ~            i c~
total, and include resources that the ~~~~~~s~~of Economy, Finance, and Budget allocates for
health related ~ x p e n ~ ~ t uother,public lunds such as direct loans to the treasury~and p ~ ~ l ~ c
                                    r e ~
employee funds. 'I'he mijority of itte public resources come from ~ e ~ ~ etaxation a l ~ ~ a~ ~ u ~ h
                                                                                                 r a l
share comes from loans from external agencies. ~ ~ i c ~ thedWorld~Rank. Finally, the private
                                                                              u    ~ n
sector represe~~s       31 percent of rhe rota1~ i n ~ ~bytsource.i ~~ ~~ ~ ut ~ iee ~~arc the~mains~ ~ e ~
                                                                      c ~                                o~ s~ ~~
sourcc of private an^^^^^ r e ~ r e ~ e ~ 20i percent of all res~urces~
                                                      t t n ~                                l  oto the sector. The
                                                                                                      ~  i  ~   ~
ma.jori ty of h o ~ ~ eel~t p~e~~~~is~ ~ ~ ~~r e~    t                 ~~ ~- ~~ ~innboth ~~ ~~pi umd~r~private~
                                                                                      ~      fd p       ~     ~~ c   ~ t
f a c ~ ~ i t ~ase~s r e - p a ~~~~ee ~c ~r i a n ~only sci)ver a small ~ r o p o ~ iof ~
                                                   s m                                 o thei fonnaf sector workers.
~                ~health ~n~ura~tcc:schemes arc:only~
                              ~               ~              just s t a r ~ ~innthe coulntry, and cover a very small
                                                                              l ~       ~            n          i     ~
percent o f the popu~a~~on.




~       ~Sector ~ a       h~ a t~ and~Issues ~ ~ ~
                                    ~ e n




                       n. These are discussed in




                                                             27

The demand and utilization of health services are very low

92.     A large proportion o f the population does not receive care when in need. Data from the
E P M 2005 shows that only two out o f every five people receive care in case o f illness or injury.
In addition, there are large regional differences in the percent of people receiving care, with
about 65 percent o f people reporting an illness or injury inDiana region receiving care compared
to only 23 percent inVatovavy Fitovinany and Melaky, two o fthe poorest regions inthe country.

93.     Financial barriers to access represent the main cause o f low utilization o f health services.
The EPM 2005 shows that the cost o f receiving care is the main reason reported for non-
utilization o f services incase o f illness. These financial barriers are often related not only to the
direct cost o f the services but also to other expenditures, such as transportation costs and the
opportunity cost o f seeking care. The Government has tried to alleviate these financial barriers,
first by eliminating user fees during the political crisis and then by creating FANOME and the
Equity funds. After the 2001 economic crisis, health service fees were abolished, including
copayment on drugs, following which utilization o f health services increased significantly.
However, giventhat the increase inhealth resources - mainly from HIPC - was not sufficient to
compensate for the loss o f user fees, drug stock-outs became were common and the quality o f
services deteriorated further as the workload o f the already insufficient health personnel
increased. At the end o f 2003, the Government reinstated user fees, and by 2004, a new cost
recovery system -FANOME -was put inplace. This system was accompanied by an exemption
mechanism to ensure that the poor had access to health care. Further, a small percent o f the sale
o f drugs (2.2 percent) i s now set aside for an Equity Fund in each primary health care center to
allow free access to drugs for the poor.

94.     Early evaluation o f these reforms suggests that: (i)utilization o f health facilities
decreased following the reintroduction o f user fees, although the exact role o f the re-introduction
o f the fees i s not clear since the purchasing power o f the population has also decreased; (ii)
stocks o f drugs and supplies have improved following the reintroduction o f user fees; (iii)      the
new Equity Fund successfully targets the poor as almost all people inthe exemption list can be
classified as being poor; (iv) coverage by the Equity Fund i s very limited, and despite
widespread poverty, only one percent o f the population i s on the exemption list; and (vi) funds
collected (2.2 percent o f the sale o f drugs) are not enough to guaranteed the sustainability o f the
EquityFunds.

95.     Despite the documented highprevalence o fpoverty among the general population andthe
introduction o f payment mechanisms to assist those who have been identified as poor to have
access to basic health services (fonds d'e'quite'),the small number o f persons who claim to be
indigent implies that there may be significant cultural barriers to identifying oneself publicly as
poor or indigent. Similar measures have been gradually introduced in hospitals, given the
impoverishing effects o f hospitalization, where most surgical and other consumables are not
available and mustbe purchased inprivate outlets, endingup inunreasonably expensive bills.

96.     Geographic access to health care facilities i s limited inrural areas, and about 10 percent
o f those needingcare live very far from a health facility and do not utilize health services when
ill.Ahealthmappingexercisedonein2000showedthatonlyabout57percentofthepopulation



                                                   28

lives within 5 km o f a primary health care center, though the situation has improved recently
withthe establishment of216new facilities.

Thedistribution of healthpersonnel across the country is very uneven

97.      A fundamental issue underlyingthe unevenproductionand delivery o f health services in
Madagascar is the huge variation in the allocation, training and competency levels o f medical
personnel. Almost 50 percent o f the personnel o f M O H are concentrated in the area o f
Analamanga. A few hospitals in the large cities have a disproportionately huge number o f
doctors and specialists, whereas there are huge unsatisfiedneeds for certain vital specialties such
as gynecology, surgery, pediatrics, etc. at the level o f the provinces. Likewise, the distribution o f
doctors across rural and urban areas also shows huge imbalances. Inaddition, the relatively low
productivity o f medical personnel in the public sector also poses a major problem. Besides
shirking andabsenteeism, poor productivity is also a result o f poor basic training o f the medical
personnel (for example, many general practitioners do not know much about childbirth),
unavailability o f essential goods and equipments to facilitate diagnosis and treatment, low levels
o f remuneration, etc. As a result, quality o f care suffers, especially at the level o f the CSB and in
rural areas, and the system i s marked by little or no integration o f preventive and curative care,
absence of continuity o f the care, irrational use o f drugs, etc. Evennon-clinical activities are of
poor quality, with bad patient reception, long waiting hours, and absence o f communication with
the patient.



                     All employees       Qualified employees          Ofwhich, number of doctors   Observations

Urban
          CSB I1 11.5                    6.5                          2.3                          54
          Tnfal       10.9               6.2                          2.2                          57
Rural
          CSB I 2.5                      0.8                          0.0                          24
          CSB I1 4.1                     1.9                          0.9                          72
          Total      3.7                 1.6                          0.7                          96

All CSB             I 6.4                3.3                          1.2                          153
Average numberof Staff
        IICSBI      I 5.0                2.0                          0.0
          CSBII     I 9.0               I4.0                       I  1.0
Source: EEEFS2 2005 and fir the personnel standards Dubois et a12006.
Note: There were only 3 observations of CSB Iin urban areas and thus the results are not shown.

98.      Table 4 compares the average number o f personnel in CSB in 2005 with standards
established by national norms. While the health facilities in urban areas on average have more
qualified health personnel than required by the national standard, health facilities in rural areas
have much less staff, especially nurses, midwives, and health aides.

99.      The majority o f the qualified health care personnel are concentrated in the province o f
Antananarivo. This i s especially the case for physicians, as this province has 46 percent of all
doctors working in the public sector but has only 28 percent o f the country's population. Nurses


                                                            29

                                                 much better dist




                                   r the 2001 crisis, thc Gav
level and started to disrr~bu~e~ ~ ~ a r ~ ~ ~free ouf tcharge. During this time, a heatth facility
                                                        ~     i c a ~ s
sufz.ey recorded w~d~spread   dnig stock-outs in the CSBs. Only I 5 percent nf the public primary
h e ~ ~care centers did not suffer shortage inthe s~~pplyf a group of csscntiaf drugs. About 30
        t h                                                    o
percent of f ~ c ~ lhad~si~~~so ~ o f~ceh sl o r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~o n~er ,i ~ i o ~~~iz~o bl ~e, n and~a ~~ c~ ~~~~? ,h ~ ~ ~ :
                      ~                a                                                   d
about 36 percent had shortages of ~ a r a c e t a ~ oand ~ : more than half were out of a c ~ ~ ~ l s a ~ i c ~ l ~ ~
acid. The m e m ~ ~ i ~ aof~the
                              i o sn~ o ~ ~ -varied tfrom 70 days for a ~ c t ~ l s a l ~acidlto c32 days
                                               ~ ? u                                     c ~ ~
for ~iie~enda~ole. the ~ ~ - i n ~ r ~ ~ofd fees~andothe ~
                   After                            u ~    i  n           A       ~k'und, the s ~ t ~~a t ~ o n~
                                                                                            ~                          ~
has ~ ~ i p r ao l~t ~ ~e drug h
                          ~~ u gs ~ o ~ a ~ eare still a ~ r ~ ~Over l20epercent of health facilities,
                                              s                     ~        ~ ~ ~ ,
c ~ ~ c cin~rural~areas. have ~ ~ o r of" a
               a    l ~                        ~ nrst~r e ~ ~ ~salts,~serum glucose, nfolic acid. and
                                                                    d     ~ t ~ ~ ~
~ i d o c ~For~some.of tttcse drugs the ~ i ~d ~~ dr ~~
           ~   ~ c                                           of~~at ~ ~o~ n~three months. ~
                                                                    ~     was    ~    -    ~        u   ~




                                                     30

       Table5: Percent of CSB with drugshortages, by type of drugs and rural-urban areas, 2005

CSB only                   I         1          1       1
                             Rural     Urban     Total   Average number of days  Median number of days




Number of Observations.    I   96    I    57    I 153  I
Source: EEEFS II2005

102.     There are other indications of low quality o f services at public facilities. In2003, only 59
percent o f public basic health centers had access to clean water, 53 percent had electricity, and
only 16 percent had transportation. Further, only 21 percent o f public facilities collected all the
information required by the IMCI protocol (age, weight, health card, temperature, and breathing
frequency). Similarly, in only 8 public facilities out o f 58 children were examined for the
standard four signs o f health risk (vomit, convulsions, anemia, and capacity to drink).
Additionally, only 61 percent o f anemia or severe malnutrition cases were correctly identified in
public facilities. The situation has changed only marginally in2005, and 61 percent o f CSB now
have access to a water source and 54 percent to electricity. However, in 2005 more than 90
percent o f facilities collected information on age, weight, health care andtemperature o f children.

103.    The health system performs poorly at the hospital level also, limiting referral to urban
areas and only when it i s not further compounded by financial barriers. The quality o f service
delivery in hospitals is affected by the lack o f proper medical specialists, equipment,
maintenance, proper drugs and consumables. However, the creation o f the health regions has
significantly modified the set-up o f district health facilities and reference hospitals. With support
from development partners, hospital level services are being reviewed and should lead to a
reorganization o f the referral systemand a transformation o fthe role and mandates o f district and
regional hospitals for more effective and efficient service delivery. The program o f creation o f
essential services particularly in surgery and emergency medicine and the re-equipment and
rehabilitation o f health facilities i s progressing well and will continue.




                                                      31

                         Water (pump and tap) Electricity Means of transport Fosse A ordures Obs..
r S R

PublicRrivate
    Public                       61.4            53.6           51.0               55.6        153
    Private-nonreligious         71.9            96.9           45.3               56.3        64
    Private- religious           89.7            94.8           43.1               34.5        58




Source: EEEFS II,2005.

Budget executionis weak

104.      Management o f the health system at the local level i s improving, although budget
management capacity remains a major challenge. The planning, programming and monitoring
functions o f regional and district health management teams have been strengthened. All regions
and districts have adjusted their budgetingprocess to the new budget/program format, and some
have begun to introduce performance-based planning using management tools and technical
support from various partners. The performance o f the district management teams has started to
improve as a result o f technical support and staff recruitment. All but a few o f the districts are
now able to formulate their three year plans and develop annual work programs along clear
norms and criteria. However, implementation o f those annual plans i s still weak due to poor
implementationcapacity, insufficient resource flows to the regions and districts and low capacity
for procurement o f the large quantities o f commodities and equipment needed to expand health
services. Furthermore support from regional and communal administrative authorities i s still
weak. This situation i s in part due to substantial limitations at central level, where budget
management functions remain weak and require increased efforts to strengthen the
administrative and managerial capacity of the health system. The execution o f M O H budget in
2005 and2006 was low, and there i s needfor continuing efforts at developing capacity at central,
regional and district levels and at devoting increased attention for more systemic support and
monitoring o f budget distribution and implementation.




                                                 32

Health Sector Reform Program

105.    M O H is continuing to implement initiatives to improve access and utilization o f health
services and improve health outcomes. A new sector policy was adopted inJune 2005, inwhich
emphasis was placed on the need to re-orient health resource allocations to underserved areas
and improve public expenditure management. Prevention and treatment o f malaria and other
major communicable diseases were also among the key priorities. Moreover, the policy sought to
achieve closer integration and coordination o f health sector interventions with other activities
that impact health status such as water and sanitation, nutrition, transport, and rural development,
and aimed to expand the coverage o f risk-coping strategies such as mutual health insurance
schemes and solidarity mechanisms.

106.    To estimate the sector's investment needs over the next ten years, a process o f analytic
work was initiated using the Marginal Budgeting for Bottlenecks programming tool. The
analysis has highlighted the importance o f adequate investment in the development o f human
resources as well as infrastructure, especially referral facilities. The analysis i s based on a
dynamic path characterized by various growth scenarios including linear increases in service
delivery and/or frontloading for infrastructure and equipment supply. Estimates from the
modeling exercise indicate that significant resources would be necessary to enable Madagascar
to meet the health-related MDGs by the target date o f 2015. The planned expansion o f essential
health services, including enhanced clinical referral capabilities for neo-natal and obstetric care,
would require additional resources over the short-to-medium term to set the country on a
dynamic path toward realizing the health-related MDGs. The first base scenario calls for an
increase o f US3.80 per capita and aims at progressing steadily towards the child mortality,
malnutrition, malaria and HIV MDG targets through increased use o f well known high impact
health interventions such as immunization, family planning, use o f impregnated bed-nets and
social marketing o f health and sanitation products including oral re-hydration therapy. The other
scenarios call for a tripling to quadrupling o f spending on health to support a significant
expansion o f clinical services which will be necessary to make progress on the maternal
mortality MDGs.

107.    Madagascar's efforts to provide services to the poor focus on increasing the availability
o f quality services and ensuring the financial accessibility o f these services. Health is a key goal
o f Madagascar's poverty reduction strategy, and health policy issues feature prominently in the
country development plans, including the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP), 2007-2011. The
National Health Sector Strategy and Development Plan (Plan de De'veloppement du Secteur
Sante', or PDSS), covering the period 2007-2011,seeks to list and define the various interventions
necessary for the realization o f the MAP objectives in a logical framework o f priorities, activities
andresults.

108.    The primary focus o f the reforms in the health sector is to strengthen the health system
and increase its capacity to provide the necessary production, financing, delivery and
management support for delivery o f services necessary to meet the eventual objectives o f
reducing child and maternal mortality, controlling illnesses due to malaria, sexually transmitted
diseases, and HIV-AIDS.Accordingly, ongoing efforts are being targeted to strengthen delivery
o f health services, develop and manage human resources in the health sector, introduce
innovations in health financing, including resource mobilization and resource allocation, and


                                                 33

improve demand and utilization of health services. Table 7 summarizes the objectives and
interventions described inthe MAP and PDSS.




                                te supply ofdrugs and equ        at all healthcenters
                                e HealthCenters for remot


              ---- Empowerdecentralizedlevelsto
                   Improveworkingconditionsof healthpersonnel, especially inruralareas
                   Trainnursesandmidwivesto deliver basic healthservices
                                                  better staffand managehealthcenters
                   Develop innovative provider paymentmechanisms to contract andredeploynursesandmidwives
             to all level 1and2 healthcenters
              - Develop    innovative financingmethodsto increasethe use ofhealthservicesbythe poor, through




                                                                             s to manageand coordinateeffective
             controlofmalaria, includingspraying, distributiono fbed-nets,etc.
              - Ensureadequate     supply of equipment andtesting facilitiesat all healthcenters for sexually
             transmitteddiseases




              -- Ensureapplicationo   f agreedqualitystandards andprotocolsat all healthcenters
                   Improvetrainingof healthagents infamily planning




             agents and healthworkers on proceduresfor treating childrenunder five
              - Improvetrainingof     healthagents on uniformproceduresfor dealingwith diseases in children




             agents for implementationofthe roadmapfor reductiono fmaternalmortality.
              -- Trainstaffinhealthcenters   andfirst levelhospitals inpregnancyand delivery management
                   Organizecampaignsto mobilize communities for increase utilizationofmaternalandneo-natal

Promotiono f - Strengthencapacityandcompetenciesat        decentralizedlevelsto organizeand managecommunity
Hygienic                  promotionof hygienic practicesincludingthe WASH strategy
Practices    -agents for
                   Organizecampaigns to promotewidespreadutilizationof hygienic practices,includingthe WASH




                                                        34

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                  MadagascarSustainableHealthSystem DevelopmentProject

World BankProiects

109.     Second Health Sector Support Project (US$40 million credit; US$22 million
supplementalcredit). The project was approved inNovember 1999, and a supplemental credit
(US$18 Million) prepared in 2005. The development objective o f the project i s to contribute to
the improvement o fthe health status o f the populationthrough more accessible and better quality
health services. The project has three specific objectives: (i)
                                                              improve quality o f health and access
to primary health care services with a focus on rural areas; (ii)support priority health programs
with emphasis on endemic infectious diseases, reproductive health (including family planning,
sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDS) and nutrition; and (iii)strengthen sector
management and administrative capacity within M O H and at provincial and district levels. The
project i s rated satisfactory on bothIP and DO ratings.

110.     MultisectoralSTI/HIV/AIDS Project - MSPP I(US$20 million credit). This project
was approved in November 2001. Its development objective i s to support the Government o f
Madagascar's efforts to promote a multi-sectoral response to the HIV/AIDS crisis and contain
the spread o f HIV/AIDS on its territory. To do so, the project builds capacity and scales up the
national response to HIV/AIDS and STIs, a key risk factor and contributor to the spread o f
HIV/AIDS. The project has financed, inter alia, sector strategies and pilot projects, including
communication campaigns, the implementation o f the local response, and M&E activities. It i s
rated satisfactory on bothIP and DO ratings.

111.     Second MultisectoralSTI/HIV/AIDS Project- MSPP II(US$30 millioncredit). The
project was approved in July 2005, and made effective in May 2006. The closing date i s
December 31,2009. The development objectives o f MSPP I1are the same as those o f the MSPP,
i.e., to support the Government o f Madagascar's efforts to promote a multi-sectoral response to
the HIV/AIDScrisis andto contain the spread o fHIV/AIDSon its territory. To do so, the project
will intensify and will build capacity to carry out the national response to HIV/AIDS and
sexually transmitted infections (STIs), a key risk factor for and contributor to the spread o f
HIV/AIDS.Inaddition, MSPP I1will seek to improve the quality of life o f persons living with
HIV/AIDSthrough increased access to quality medical care andto non-medical support services.
Giventhe current epidemiological situation, the project will put an even stronger focus than the
original project on at-risk groups in highprevalence areas, while moderately expanding services
to other affected groups (e.g., orphans and other vulnerable children). The project consists o f the
following components and sub-components: (i)harmonization, donor coordination, and
strategies; (ii)support for health sector response; (iii)STI/HIV/AIDS prevention and care; (iv)
monitoring and evaluation; and (v) project management and capacity building. The project i s
rated satisfactory on both IP and DO ratings.

112.     Community DevelopmentFund (US$178 million). The project was approved in April
2001 and made effective in October 2001. The closing date is June 30, 2008. The project has
benefitedfrom two supplemental credits. The objectives o f the project are to improve the use o f
and satisfaction with project-supported social and economic services amongst participating rural


                                                35

and urban communities. The project has six components: (i)           transfers o f funds to community
associations; (ii)  capacity building activities; (iii) transfers o f funds to communes; (iv) project
administration and supervision; (v) social safety net activities; and (vi) cyclone emergency and
disaster relief activities. The project is rated satisfactory.

113.    Second CommunityNutritionProject(US$47.6 million). The project was approved in
May 1998, and received two supplemental credits of US$10 million each inDecember 2003 and
November 2006. The closing date i s December 2008. The development objectives o f the Project
are to improve the nutritional status o f children under the age o f three, pregnant and lactating
women, and school-aged children. The Project also aims to ensure long-term sustainability o f
nutrition outcomes by improving the quality and quantity o f food intake by children at home.
The Project is implementedby SEECALINE, an executing agency operating since 1993 which
has demonstrated capacity in effectively supporting poor communities and in monitoring
nutritional status through contracting local NGOs whose capacity has beenbuilt by the project.

114.    Governance and Institutional Development Project (US$30 million).                       The
Governance and Institutional Development (PGDI) project was approved inNovember 2003 and
became effective in March 2004. The closing date is June 30, 2009. An additional financing o f
US$5 million i s under preparation. The development objective o f the project i s to assist the
Government o f Madagascar in implementing the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), by
rationalizing and modernizing budget, and public expenditure management; improving
accountability and transparency o f Government operations; and, by strengthening the capacity o f
public institutions, in light o f complex change processes. The two main components address the
following: i)improving transparency, and economic governance will require a comprehensive
reform o f the public finance system; and ii)institutional development and capacity building
activities inselected government institutions.




                                                    36

Proiects of Other Development Agencies


  Donors               Projectname                Sector Issue       Implementation
                                                                         Status
European         0  Budget Support (PAW)           Generalbudget      Ongoing
Union                                              support
African          0  SANTEII                        Provisionof        Ongoing
Development                                        essential drugs,
Bank                                               healthfacilities
(AfDB)
                 0  SANTEI11HIV/AIDS and           HIV/AIDSand
                    transmissible diseases         tuberculosis
USAID            0  Motherandchildhealth                              Ongoing
                 0  Familyplanningand
                    reproductivehealth
                 0  Nutrition
                 0  STI/HIV/AIDS
GLOBAL           0  Malaria grant round3 and4                         Ongoing
FUND                (CRESANandPSI)
                 0  HN/AIDS round4
                    (SE/CNLS)
                 0  Tuberculosisround4
                    (SE/CNLS)
JICA             0  Motherandchildhealth         0 Hospital           Ongoing
                                                   rehabilitation
UNICEF              Childhealth                  0                    Ongoing
                 0  HIV/AIDS
WHO              0  Reproductive health            Technical          Ongoing
                 0  Malaria                        assistance
                 0  Institutional capacity
                    building
                 0  Immunization
UNDP             0  HIV/AIDS                     0 Technical          Ongoing
                                                   assistance
UNFPA            0  Reproductive health                               Ongoing
French           0  FSP                            Technical          Ongoing
Cooperation                                        assistance,
                                                   training,
                                                   HIV/AIDS,
                                                   hospitals
                                                   rehabilitation,
                                                   districtsupport
GAVI             0  Immunization                                     Ongoing
GTZ              0  District, regionalsupport      Mahajunga         Ongoing
                 0  HIV/AIDS                     0 Technical
                                                   SUPPOrt,
                                                   public-private
                                                   partnership


                                             37

                         Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                 Madagascar Sustainable Health System Development Project

115.    The National Health Sector Strategy and Development Plan (Plan DCveloppement du
Secteur SantC, or PDSS) lists and defines the various interventions necessary for the realization o f
the MAP objectives ina logical fiamework o f priorities, activities andresults. The five-year PDSS
lays down a Results Framework which captures the key elements o f the results chain and links
inputs, resources, outputs and outcomes. Developed through extensive consultation with
development partners and others stakeholders, the Results Framework provides program-level
bases for managers to gauge progress toward the achievement of results and to adjust relevant
programs and activities accordingly. In addition, it provides an important opportunity for M O H
to work with its development partners and stakeholders to build consensus and ownership around
shared objectives and approaches to meetingthose objectives. M O H sees the Results Framework
as a "living" management tool, to be usedas the foundation for critical programmatic events and
processes, including strategic planning (by outlining program objectives and contributions o f
operations and their outputs to achieving these objectives), communication (by setting out
priorities, clarifying expectations and accountabilities, and identifying common areas and
synergies across operations), monitoring and evaluation (by measuring progress and making
adjustments as needed) and learning (by determining what works and what does not and
comparing across similar operations).

116.    The fundamental premise o f the Results Framework is that health status and outcomes
depend on a host of factors that include public health interventions, economic environment,
social environment, sociopolitical environment, and life-cycle-related issues. It recognizes that
activities and actions within the health system, while necessary, would be insufficient by
themselves to bring about the desired improvements in health, including meeting the health-
relatedMDGs, since measures to achieve these improvements would require interventions across
many other sectors, such as water and sanitation, infrastructure, education and environment,
which also have a direct or indirect effect on health and well-being. Recognizing that measuring
and tracking the myriad interventions across all these sectors would be a huge and difficult
exercise for any one implementing agency, the Results Framework focuses on monitoring
resources, processes and outputs directly related to actions and activities implementedby MOH,
and tracking a set o f broad indicators of health outcome and status that would subsume the
effects o f interventions o f other sectors and ministries. The dashboard of outcome indicators -
effectively the end-result o f all interventions by all sectors as well as households and individuals
themselves that have some bearing on health and well-being - will be used for broad sector
monitoring and attention by high-levelpolicy makersand development partners. Table 1presents
the fullMAPPDSS ResultsFramework.




                                                  38

c
3
m

.-4
0


0

w
m

6a
B
-
3
111

::
111
3

s
3

0
d

3
d

117.       The engagement o f the World Bank and use o f IDA resources will be used to leverage
wider support for the MAP and to provide the necessary technical expertise and support for
realization o f MAP'Sobjectives. Besides providing financial resources to upgrade health centers
at district and regional levels, the Bank will contribute significantly toward institutional
strengtheningand capacity building, both for measurement o f results as well as for strengthening
management in the health system. Indeed, building capacity to define, measure, and use
information on health outcomes and health system performance would be a practical and
valuable outcome to achieve, especially giventhe limited amount o f IDA financing o fthe project
(total o f US$lO million). Moreover, such capacity building would be very beneficial to the
Government of Madagascar and the development partners in terms o f measuring progress and
identifyingareas o fneed based on data. Ultimately, stronger capacity inmeasuringresults would
provide the country with the ability to evaluate performance and use performance data for well-
informed policy making. Table 2 presents a set o f quantitative and qualitative indicators will be
used to track the results o f Bank interventions. The output indicators are a subset o f the
indicators developed by M O H to track progress inthe PDSS.

                                           Table 2: Bank's ResultsIndicators




Process Indicators
Number ofjoint work plans prepared             Harmonization and      External   Annual       'Full harmonization
                                               Coordination           Evaluation
Number ofjoint annual review with              Harmonization and      External   Annual        Fullharmonization
development partners undertaken                Coordination           Evaluation
Center for HealthPolicy and Planning is        Capacity building on   MOH        Endof Project Center developed
developed inMOH                                measurement of results
National Health Information System is          Capacity building on
developed and functioning inMOH                measurement of results
Data on illness, utilization and treatment are Ability to measure
collectedregularly at district level and       results
reportedto a central coordinating agency
Utilization andtreatment data is usedto        Management capacity
inform policy making inthe health sector       building

Regional and district levels are more able to  Management capacity
manage health centers and coordinate           building
provision of health services
Increasedresources transferred to regionsand   Management capacity    External
districts and usedto improve health center     building               EvaluationI             I
performance
Innovativeprovider payment mechanismsto        ImprovementsinHealth   MOH        Endof Project
contract andredeploy nurses andmidwives in Financing
remote areas developed



                                                            42

   Innovativefinancingmethodsdevelopedto            ImprovementsinHealth MOH
   increase the use ofhealthservicesby the poor, Financing
   throughsuchmechanismsas equity funds and                                  I           / End ofProject I
   social insurance
   Numberofnational/districtcampaigns                Stimulationof Demand     MOH          Annual
   organizedto increaseawareness so as to
   maximizeutilization andeffectiveness
   Number of communityhealthprovision                SocialAccountability     MOH          Annual
   scorecardsprepared,discussedand
   disseminated

   118.      Tables 3 to 5 present selected indicators from the general Results Framework for the
   PDSS that will be monitoredby the Bank during the implementationof Madagascar SHSDP to
   track andevaluateprogressunder the PDSS.



             Indicators               Parameter measured        Source of info and   Frequency of       Baseline  3
                                         by this indicator            data          measurement
                                     Contributionofthe state    NationalBudget;    Annual              8.74% in   11.67%
                                     to the healthsector        Law of Finances                        2005
                                     Ability ofMOHto            National Budget;   Quarterly           65% in     100%
   for health                        managetheir allocations    Law of Finances;                       2005
                                                                MOH
I (public                            Total spendingon health National Health       Annual              $11.9 in   $16.00
            A d private) per capita                             Accounts                               2003


                                             Table4: PDSSProcessIndicators
   Indicators                               Parameter measured by Source of the Frequency of Baseline
                                            this indicator              1information  measurement
                                                                         and data   I               I           1 2011  I
                                                                         MOH

                                                                         MOH


   Number of regionsthathave                Managementof Human
 ~~                                                                      MOH
   computerizedmanagement ofHuman Resources
   Resources                                                                                        I           I
   Percentageof CSBs upgradedto be in InfrastructureStandards            MOH             Annual     130%      in1 80%
   compliancewith nationalnorms                                                      11              2006
   Number of CHRRs upgradedto be in EquipmentStandards                   MOH             Annual      16            22
   compliancewith nationalnorms
   Number o f CHDs upgradedto be in         Essential surgery services   MOH
   compliancewith nationalnorms
   Number ofhealthpersonneltrainedon Managementof quality                MOH                                      1,238
   preventive issues                        assurance
   Number of Communityagents on maternal care and neonatals                                                             I
   Number o f private and public health SONUet MSR comptencies MOH
   sector agents trained in emergency
   obstetric care
   Number        of    health      districts Supplyofvaccination         MOH
   institutionalizingroutineEPI             services
   Number of malnutrition treatment Nutritionservices                    MOH/ONN
   health centers upgraded to be in
   compliancewith nationalnorms




                                                                  43

                                   Table4: PDSS Process Indicators, cont'd




Indicators


Population Coverage

Number of CSBs that have at least
one qualified physician available
andworking fulltime
Availability of tracer drugs at the
levelof CSBs
Proportion illseeking outpatient
care at CSBs
Average occupancy rate of
hospital beds
Percentageof children born in
health facilities
Proportion of pregnant women
sleeping under ITN
Proportion women using
contraceptives
Fullvaccine coverage for children
under 1 year
Tuberculosiscure rate
Percentageof CSB with available
water supply

119.      Table 6 presents selected indicators from the general Results Framework for the M A P
that will also be monitoredby the Bank duringthe implementation o f Madagascar SHSDP.

120.      There are many issues with the existing institutional arrangementso f collection, reporting
and use o f data. The Health Information System in Madagascar collects data on 74 indicators
related to service provision (outpatient care, family planning program, maternal health, child
health, STUAIDS, communicable diseases (including tuberculosis, malaria, bilharziose, etc.),
dentistry, evolution o f pathologies, logistic management data for family planning, nutritional
surveillance of children (growth monitoring), surveillance o f pregnant women (antenatal care,
delivery), and cost recovery from drug sales. The smallest data collection unit is the CSB, and


                                                   44

the Health Information System exists and works in all public CSBs. Each month CSBs send a
monthly activity report to health districts (SSD), who aggregate these monthly reports from all
CSBs in their catchment area and send a summary SSD report (rapport mensuel de suivi de
district, or RMSD) to the central health statistics service (SSS). At the CSB level, data collection
is on paper; however, all SSDs have computer databases and routinely use that to send data to
SSS. SSS consolidates all data received from SSDs, and makes this information available to
program managers and policy makers. Accuracy, timeliness and use o f data are huge problems in
the existinghealthinformation system, especially at the levels o f SSDs and SSS.

                                     Table 6: MAIP OutcomeIndicators
Indicators              Parameter measured by                                Baseline      200812013
                        this indicator                                       (2003)

Maternalmortality rate  Risk ofdeathdue to                      5 years
                        maternityfor awoman of
                        reproductiveage
Total Fertility Rate    Average numberchildren
                        that awoman would have
                        untilthe endof her fertile
                        life
Infant-juvenile         Measure ofprobabilityof    DHS          5 years      94%           73%
mortality rate          dyingbeforethe fifth
                        hirthdav
Infantmortalityrate     Measureofprobability of    DHS          5 years       58%          45%
                        dyingbeforethe first
                        birthday
Prevalenceof chronic    Proportionof childrenof     MOH         Annual       40%           21%
malnutrition inchildren insufficientweight (index 7
underthree              weightlage)
HIV Prevalencerate      Numberof people infected  7             3 a 5 years  0.95%         <0.8%
                        by HIV comparedto
                        number of people at risk
Prevalenceofsyphilis    Numberof pregnantwomen                  5 years
inpregnantwomen         with syphiliscomparedto
                        number of pregnantwomen
                        exposedto the risk



120.      There are many issues with the existinginstitutional arrangements o f collection, reporting
and use o f data. The Health Information System in Madagascar collects data on 74 indicators
related to service provision (outpatient care, family planning program, maternal health, child
health, STI/AIDS, communicable diseases (including tuberculosis, malaria, bilharziose, etc.),
dentistry, evolution o f pathologies, logistic management data for family planning, nutritional
surveillance o f children (growth monitoring), surveillance o f pregnant women (antenatal care,
delivery), and cost recovery from drug sales. The smallest data collection unit is the CSB, and
the Health Information System exists and works in all public CSBs. Each month CSBs send a
monthly activity report to health districts (SSD), who aggregate these monthly reports from all
CSBs in their catchment area and send a summary SSD report (rapport mensuel de suivi de
district, or RMSD) to the central health statistics service (SSS). At the CSB level, data collection
i s on paper; however, all SSDs have computer databases and routinely use that to send data to
SSS. SSS consolidates all data received from SSDs, and makes this information available to
program managers and policy makers. Accuracy, timeliness and use o f data are huge problems in
the existinghealthinformation system, especially at the levels o f SSDs and SSS.


                                                     45

121.    To ensure effective planning, monitoring and evaluation o f its various programs, M O H
has decided to establish regional level units responsible for planning, monitoring and evaluation.
The 22 regional health offices have only recently been established and have a key role to play
supporting program implementation via the 111 SSDs, and the approximately 2500 CSBs and
local hospitals. Terms o f reference for these units and for its key staff were approved inFebruary
2007. These units, which report to the regional health directors, represent the central level
Direction de Suivi-Evaluation and Audit. As such, the principal function o f these new units will
be to ensure that reliable and timely data concerning health indicators i s provided to the regional
health directors and to the central level SSS so that this data can be usedfor planning, monitoring
andoverall management purposes.

122.    Currently, although an extensive and often overlapping data collection system exists
within the Madagascar health sector, the system exhibits serious problems concerning data
quality and timeliness and its potential as a management tool i s not being realized. Given this
situation, the World Bank will support M O H to strengthen these regional level units so they
become operational within a reasonable time period (6-12 months). Following that for a period
o f 12-24 months, the Bank will support M O H to provide targeted support to the district health
services and front-line community level health service providers within their jurisdictions to
ensure that improvements are made in the collection, transmission, analysis and use o f health
sector data so that verifiable progress i s made towards achieving national development and
health sector objectives. In all these efforts, the emphasis will be on ensuring the accuracy
(quality) and timeliness o f data. It will also require ensuring that all those who require this data
will have easy andreliable access to it. A Center for HealthPolicy and Development is proposed
to be established under MOH, which would take data from SSS and carry out the necessary
analysis to inform policy formulation and decision making.

123.    An important aspect o f the support to be providedto the regional units will be ensuring a
clear and effective definition o ftheir roles and responsibilities vis a vis SSS and SSD. Significant
progress has been made under CRESAN 2 in developing the district level capacity to analyze
data coming from the CSBs and hospitals in order to identify program goals that were not being
met in order to ensure that these facilities and -their staff receive the attention and support
requiredto improve their performance and results. It is expected that a similar management for
results approach can be instilled in the new regional health offices and at the central level. For
this reason, it will be important to ensure an appropriate articulation and complementarity o f
roles andresponsibilitiesbetween the different administrative levels.

124.    Related to improving the efficiency o f the Madagascar health information system in
terms of the quality and timeliness o f data, while ensuring this data i s more widely used for
management purposes, there i s also the need to simplify and rationalize the different data
collection requirements. Currently, for example, staff working in a CSB is required each month
to complete at least ten different data collection forms. This arises in part because the various
"vertical" programs such as vaccinations, family planning, malaria, and nutrition, do not receive
the data they require from SSS for reportingpurposes due to the delays experienced inpreparing
the consolidated national data. As a result they seek this data directly at the district level. This
duplication o f data collection and reporting i s excessive and means a significant portion o f CSB
staff time i s devoted to filling forms rather than to treating patients or working in prevention



                                                  46

programs. MOH has established a working group (comite' ad hoc) to look into this and prepare a
harmonized data collection system. A final element that merits support concerns human resource
management. Currently there is no data base or computerized system to monitor and help
manage MOH's approximately 15,000 staff. Although a Department o f HumanResources was
created three years ago, it is still being organized and i s not yet able to play its role effectively.
As a result, there are serious problems in all areas including assignments, promotions and
rationale allocation of staff.




                                                 47

                              Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                 Madagascar Sustainable Health System Development Project

Component 1: Strengthening Delivery of Health Services (IDA financing: US$5.3 million
equivalent)

125.   The objective o f this component i s to strengthen the delivery o f health services at the
primary and first referral levels indistricts and to significantly improve the availability o f quality
health services, especially in remote areas. Following the country's ongoing efforts to
decentralize resources, functions and responsibilities to district levels, this component will
support the strengthening o f the capacity o f the districts to better organize, manage and deliver
health goods and services to all, especially those living in rural and remote areas, but with
continuing technical support and stewardship from the center. Community action in the
management and financing o f peripheral health services i s seen as the most critical element for
improving service quality and ensuring long-term sustainability. This will provide the basis on
which prime mother and child health care interventions, such as immunization, prevention and
control o f common diseases and pre- and post-natal care, will be made accessible to the majority
o fthe population, and on which HIV/AIDS-related actions will be accelerated.

126.   The following activities are includedunder this component:
    a) Support in improving functionality of existing primary and first referral health centers at the
       district and community level, to deliver the basic package o f services, including the
       provision o f the necessary drugs, equipments and testing facilities, especially for infant
       and child health, maternal health, and priority infectious diseases, and provision o f basic
       water and sanitation facilities at health centers that do not have existing water supply on-
       site. The project will:
        .   Rehabilitate, equip and upgrade primary and first referral health care facilities so at to
        .   bring them up to compliance with national norms. The rehabilitation will include
            provision o f basic water and sanitation facilities.
            Provide a package o f drugs and consumables to selected primary and first referral
        .   health care facilities, with priority accorded to health facilities that are properly
            staffed and record highutilization rates.
            Contribute to the fight against priority infectious diseases, including but not restricted
            to: (i)in-house insecticide campaigns to prevent malaria outbreaks (financier o f last
            resort if support through other initiatives such as Global Fund and the Presidential
        .   Malaria Initiative is not available on time); (ii) immunization against rabies; (iii) pest
            prevention and surveillance activities; and (iv) filariosis elimination.
            Support improvement o f mother and child health and increase family planning
        .   through provision o f safe delivery kits for normal and complicated births, maternal
            kits, and purchase o f contraceptives.
            Support implementation o f innovative strategies to meet the health needs o f
            populations inremote areas.

    b) Provision of technical assistance to MOH in order to identify gaps in the delivery o f
       health services and suggest actionable recommendations to strengthen supply. In
       particular, the project will:



                                                  48

        w   Review needs for essential drugs at the first and second referral health centers, and
            update the list o f essential drugs to be available nationally, including inhospitals.
            Undertake an assessment o f the institutional and organizational performance o f
            hospitals, and suggest ways for improving managerial effectiveness;
            Provide support implementationo f hospital management pilots;
            Support measures for the fight against priority infectious diseases.

Component 2: Development and Management of Human Resources (IDA financing:
US$0.9 millionequivalent)

127.    A fundamental issue underlyingthe unevenproduction and delivery of health services in
Madagascar is the huge variation in the allocation, training and competency levels o f medical
and paramedical personnel. Almost 50 percent of the personnel o f the Ministry o f Health are
concentrated in the area o f Analamanga. A few hospitals in the large cities have a
disproportionately large numbers o f doctors and specialists, whereas there are unsatisfied needs
for certain vital specialties such as gynecology, surgery, pediatrics, etc. at the level o f the
provinces. Likewise, there are major imbalances in the distribution o f doctors across rural and
urban areas.

128.    Inaddition, the relatively low productivity o f medical and paramedical personnel inthe
public sector also poses a significant problem. Besides shirking and absenteeism, poor
productivity i s also a result o f poor basic training o f the medical personnel (for example, many
general practitioners do not know much about childbirth), unavailability o f essential goods and
equipments to facilitate diagnosis and treatment, low levels o f remuneration, etc. As a result,
quality o f care suffers, especially at the level o f the CSB and in rural areas, and the system i s
marked by little or no integration o f preventive and curative care, absence o f continuity o f the
care, irrational use o f drugs, etc. Evennon-clinical activities are o f poor quality, with bad patient
reception, long waiting hours, and absence of communication withthe patient.

129.    In order to improve the human resource management in the health sector, the
Government i s developing a sector-wide strategy, including definingprofessional profiles critical
to the health sector, revising standards and redeploying personnel based on criteria and standards
aimed at improving the rural-urban balance, ensuring stability and continuity o f doctors inrural
districts, and changing the structure o f incentives for doctors and other medical personnel at all
levels o f health care provision.

130.    The following activities are included under this component:
    a) Development and selective implementation of               incentive and performance-based
        mechanismsfor redeployment of medical andparamedical personnel to rural areas, and
        development o f contracting mechanisms to correct the urban-rural imbalance. The project
        will:
            Support the development and implementation of protocols for improving the working
            conditions o f medical personnel inrural areas.
            Support the development and management o f career plans and effective human
            resources management tools.




                                                   49

   b) Provision of training and coaching to health personnel to strengthen capacity to strengthen
       competencies at regional and district levels in order to assume a leadership role in
       mobilizing health providers as well as organizing and coordinating community agents to
       implement the roadmap for reduction o f maternal mortality, promote hygienic behavior,
       and promote the integrated use o f family planning services. The project will:
       .    Support training o f all health personnel, including doctors (public and private),
            nurses, midwives and other health agents, in the provision o f services necessary to
            provide quality services, including capacity to diagnose and treat infectious diseases,
            children and new-born babies, and management o f pregnancies and deliveries.
            Support the development of new training strategies, both for basic and continuing
            education such as the creation o f new andor shorter curriculddiploma,
            implementation of pilot experiences with private paramedical schools to increase the
            number of paramedics available throughout the country, strengthening o f basic
            training in coherence with the burden o f diseases and public health objectives, and
            creative ways to gain access to medical training and expertise.

Component 3: Innovations in Health Financing Management (IDA financing: US$0.6
millionequivalent)

131.   According to NHA 2003, total health expenditure in Madagascar is estimated to be
approximately US$l1.9 per person, equivalent to about 3.5 percent o f GDP. External assistance
represents over 37 percent o f total spending inthe health sector. Public funds constitute the next
largest source (32 percent), followed by out-of-pocket payments (3 1 percent). Currently donor
support i s provided mainly through projects, though the sector has also benefited from general
budget support that the Government has received from PRSC financed by the World Bank and
the European Union. Community insurance systems are at an early stage o f development, and
only cover a very small percentage ofthe population.

132.   The public sector is the principal financing agent, managing 55 percent o f total funds,
with the bulk ofthe operational budget o f the Ministry devoted to salaries. Budget execution has
beenweak, averaging about 77 percent annually, and has been below the average o f the other
Ministries duringmost o f the last decade.

133.   In terms o f distribution, there are large inequalities across regions, with richer regions
receiving relatively more resources. This regressive distribution o f resources constitutes an
obstacle to ensuringaccess and utilization o f quality health care by all, a key goal o f the National
Health Policy and the MAP. Moreover, insufficient resources flow to the CSBs, partially
explaining the low quality o f the services renderedat this level. There are no clear criteria for
distribution o f health resources across regions that take into account the size o f the population
and their needs, the level o fpoverty inthe region, andthe number o f facilities.

134.   Resource mobilization and allocation remain the cornerstones o f the health sector
strategy in Madagascar, as the country strives to increase the resources allocated to the health
sector. Innovative ways o f mobilizing resources, including social and community health
insurance, are being considered under the strategy. In addition, public-private partnerships are
also under beingexplored as potential means o f generating newresources.



                                                50

135.    The following activities are includedunderthis component:
    Provision of      technical assistance and support for          the development and selective
    implementation of innovative mechanisms for improving resource mobilization and
        ..
    strengthening resource allocation across sectors in order to meet the priority objectives o f
    the government. The project will finance technical assistance to develop the following tools:
            Innovative resource mobilization mechanisms, including equity funds, social
            insurance, community insurance, etc.
            Mechanisms for better management o f available public and private funds, including
            pooling o f budgetary and non-budgetary sources o f financing, priority spending and
            provision for catastrophic care. The project will finance technical assistance (together
            with the Bank's Governance and Institutional Development Project) so as to increase
        .   the budget execution rate, and foster accountability and efficiency in financial
            resource allocations and a reserve fund for catastrophic and epidemic care.
            Innovative provider payment mechanisms, including contracting, especially for
            nurses and midwives for deployment in rural and remote areas. Some o f these
            mechanisms will be tested through implementation.

Component 4: Improving Demand and Utilization of Health Services (IDA financing:
US$1.05 million equivalent)

136.    Utilization o f health services in Madagascar is very low. Only 10 percent o f the
population reports an illness, and o f those, only 40 percent seek care. There are huge variations
inservice use across regions, with significantly lower rates o futilization inthe remoter areas of
the country. Utilization ofhealth services is especially low among the poor, implyinginequity in
utilization o f care. This low level o f utilization also results inan underutilized health system and
idle resources.

137.    The following activities are includedunderthis component:
         ..
     a) Promotion of awareness of health needs and available services at the community level in
        order to support increased utilization rate o f health services. The project will:
            Support strengthening of community education to increase awareness o f health needs
            and available services so as to increase utilization and effectiveness through both
            mass media campaigns and community-based activities.
            Support the organization o f national/regional/district campaigns to promote improved
            and integrated management o f children illnesses, family planning, use o f long-term
            contraceptives, increased utilization o f maternal and neonatal services, hygienic
            practices, etc. The project will support selective innovative pilot experiences aimed at
            increasingthe utilization rate o f health services.

         .
     b) Provision of technical assistance for the development and selective implementation of
        innovativefznancial mechanisms to increase demandfor health services. The project will:
            Support development o f a system o f conditional cash transfers in order to provide
            financial incentives to seek care, especially for the poor and vulnerable sections o f
            society. A pilot will be launched to increase compliance with tuberculosis treatment.




                                                    51

Component5: InstitutionalStrengthening(IDA financing: USfi2.15 millionequivalent)

138.    A critical objective o f this component is to provide support to the strengthening o f
country systems in the health sector and specifically within the Ministry o f Health, including
procurement capacity, financial management systems, budget execution, program oversight and
planning and use o f data for decision making (evidence based planning). Moreover, close
partnerships need to be developed betweenthe Ministryo f Health and other relevant ministries,
in particular Water and Education. Finally, the oversight and monitoring o f private sector
partners in the health sector i s fundamental to having a comprehensive picture o f the health
system inMadagascar.

139.    Another objective o f this component i s to support the establishment o f an effective
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system. M&E systems provide information on inputs,
structures, outputs and outcomes, and are central to improving management o f results and
strengthening performance. The goal o f the proposed M&E plan is to link the system
strengthening activities supported by the project to the MAP objectives and create an integrated
and coherent framework to monitor and evaluate progress across multiple dimensions. This will
provide the necessary information to decision-makers to assess achievement o f project objectives
and make the necessary adjustments from time to time inresponse to evolving conditions either
within or external to the project.

140.    International experience o f M&E systems points to the importance o f engaging all
stakeholders in the M&E development process. The project's M&E plan will present a special
challenge and opportunity to assist in the coordination and implementation o f multisectoral
activities as well as monitoring the impact o fhealth activities across sectors.

141.    The following activities are included underthis component:
        a) Strengthening of the capacity of MOH in planning and programming, procurement,
           financial management and budget management, and strengthening supervisory
            .
            capacity o f districts, and support to the preparation and implementation o f Annual
            Work Plans. The project will:
               Provide support to the decentralization process at the regional and district health
               operational district level through strengthening o f supervisory capacity led by the
               district level to ensure smooth and regular functioning o f health facilities,
            .  including CSBs and first referral health facilities, especially for emergency
               surgeries, and support the move towards more integration o f health activities.
               Provide     support   to  the bottom-up       planning through    subsidizing   the
               implementation o f the district annual work plan (continuation o f CRESAN2
               support to avoid disruption o f financial flows at the peripheral level). The
               Government commits however to start increasing its allocation to the peripheral
               level, and to improve its internal procedures to be able to manage the district
            .  financial allocations with the same flexibility as the IDA projects by the end o f
               end o fthe project.
               Provide support for the establishment of a Center for Health Policy and
               Development in order to strengthen the capacity o f the Ministry in the areas o f
               planning, data analysis, policy formulation andprogram oversight.



                                                 52

b) Provision of technical assistance and training to MOH for the development and
   operationalization of a monitoring and evaluation system and strengtheningcapacity
   to collect and analyze health information and data. The project will:
       Provide support to the development and operationalization o f an M&E system,
       including at the regional and district levels, including capacity building and
       technical assistance for implementing entities in M&E through education and
       training at central, regional and district levels.
       Provide support to the development o f a National Health Information System
       (NHIS) to improve routine data collection.
       Provide support to strengthening o f analytical capacity to facilitate analysis o f
       national, regional and community-level data collected through a variety o f sources
       at different time intervals and usingmultiple data collection methodologies.
       Contribute to the financing o fthe DHS.
       Undertake annual financial audits and one technical audit during the project
       implementationperiod.
       Support operating costs o fthe PCU.




                                         53

                                   Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                 MadagascarSustainableHealthSystem DevelopmentProject




ProjectCost By Componentand/orActivity         Local      Foreign     Total
                                               US$million US$ million US$million
Component 1: StrengtheningDelivery of Health       4.3       1.o         5.3
Services
Component 2: Development andManagement of          0.6       0.3         0.9
HumanResources
Component 3: Innovations inHealthFinancing         0.3       0.3         0.6
Management
Component 4: Improving Demand and                  0.55      0.5         1.05
UtilizationofHealth Services
Component 5: Institutional Strengthening           1.55      0.6         2.15

Total Baseline Cost                                7.3       2.7        10.0
 Physical Contingencies
 Price Contingencies
TotalProjectCosts                                  7.3       2.7        10.0
Interest during construction
Front-endFee
TotalFinancingRequired




                                            54

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                  MadagascarSustainableHealth System DevelopmentProject

I. INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENTS

142.    The implementation o f the National Health Program i s overseen by M O H through its
relevant directorates and services. Decisions are made by a management team comprised o f all
division chiefs and representatives from health districts. This team will be responsible for closely
monitoring project activities (including the follow-up o f performance indicators, sector issues
and health status/epidemic          trends),  donor     coordination,   and for     making concrete
recommendations o fways to improve overall project implementation.

143.    Responsibility for Madagascar SHSDP coordination will rest with the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), made up essentially o f staff from the project unit o f the current IDA
financed health project. This Unit has also been selected by the Global Fund to manage the
Malaria 4th and 5th round funds. It has performed its duties satisfactorily and acquired
experience in managing IDA-funded activities, coordinating donors, NGOs, various M O H
services and district health authorities. Other donors have expressed interest in using this PCU
for the execution o ftheir activities, and the PCU will be staffed accordingly.

144.    Giventhe project's wide array o f activities in different sectors, the Project Coordination
Unit will collaborate with the following MOH Directorates: (a) Health District Development
(Direction de developpement des districts sanitaires); (b) Infectious diseases directorate
(Direction de la lutte contre les maladies transmissibles); (c) Preventive medicine (which
includes Nutrition and Family planning services); (d) Planning and research, (e) Health care
establishments (Direction des etablissements de soins), and (f) Pharmacy and laboratory for the
project component on institutional strengthening.

145.    The head o fthe PCU will report to the Secretary General and the Minister o f Health, and
will participate inthe M O H management team together with the other central directors, and the
senior staff o f the health districts. The project staff will have an internal controller to oversee all
administrative and financial transactions; a highly qualified accountant with at least one
assistant; two procurement specialists; a procurement assistant; an architect/engineer incharge of
the civil works; and at least one assistant. Implementation o f project activities will be the
responsibility o f the above-listed M O H Directorates who will collaborate with the decentralized
health districts. The project implementationmanual will be revisedto further define the roles and
responsibilities o f all concerned partners.

11.     PARTNERSHIPARRANGEMENTS

146.    A large number o f donors are active in the health sector in Madagascar. Donor
collaboration on the design and implementation o f the health strategy in Madagascar has been
excellent, and the scope o f partnerships i s expected to increase even more under the sector wide
approach - both because o f the more formal approach to donor coordination under SHSDP as
well as because the health sector strategy as outlined inthe PDSS i s comprehensive and includes
all areas o f the health system, inter alia including population and family planning, disease


                                                   55

control, management o f preventive and acute health care services, strengthening o f the health
system, and promotion o fhygiene. Three formal mechanisms ofcoordination will be used

(1)     HealthSummits

147.    M O H will organize two summits a year, one in March and one in September, and will
invite officials from Ministries o f Finance, Water and Sanitation, Education, etc., development
partners, civil society organizations active in the health sector, and other stakeholders. The first
Health Summit would review the previous year's performance and result in a set o f conclusions
and recommendations for M O H that are endorsed by the Summit's participants andwill form the
basis o f the Ministry's actions during the rest o f the year, including adjustments in the Annual
Work Program for the remaining part o f the year. The second Health Summit would review
progress over the last six months and provide the basis for adjustments and course correction for
the next year. Participants would review the Annual Work Program for consistency with MAP
and PDSS and with findings o f the annual sector review carried out in the first Summit. This
would result in a final Annual Work Program for the coming year that is agreed with
participating development partners, incorporates their respective contributions, reflects their
collective recommendations on priority areas for action, and forms the basis for the following
Summit's monitoring o f performance. This collective approach to sector monitoring and
coordination i s expected to improve efficiency, accountability and prioritization o f donor support
to the health sector. The first such Summitwill take place inSeptember 2007.

(2) Memorandaof Understanding

148.    A Memorandum of Support will be signed by agencies pooling their funds for
Madagascar SHSDP, in this case the World Bank and AFD. This Memorandum will specify
issues o f special relevance to the pooled funds: namely, institutional arrangements, fiduciary
arrangements, assessment and monitoring provisions, disbursement arrangements, information-
sharing and conflict resolution expectations, and arrangements for adding new partners during
implementation. A broader Memorandum o f Support will be signed by the President o f
Madagascar, Ministerso f Health and Finance, and representatives from all development partners,
including the World Bank, UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO, USAID, AfDB, EU, JICA, etc.

(3) Joint SupervisionArrangements

149.    Participating development partners will arrange regular joint supervision missions and
work closely together on team composition, planning and implementation with counterparts to
minimize administrative efforts for the government. This will include coordination o f the policy
dialogue in line with specific areas o f expertise o f individual agencies to allow for efficient
allocation o f resources and use o f government capacities. Regular supervision missions are
envisaged twice every year, and in addition to the fiduciary requirements o f participating
development agencies, will support the bi-annual Health Summits in their review o f the
implementation o f the PDSS and SHSDP. To the extent possible, development partners will also
coordinate the use o f parallel funds available for implementation support measures and share
evaluationresults and background reports as applicable.




                                                 56

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                 MadagascarSustainableHealthSystemDevelopmentProject

Introduction

150.    Madagascar SHSDP represents the next stage in support to the health sector by the Bank
and other development partners. The main objective is to contribute to the strengthening o f the
health system, including financing, delivery and management, so as to improve the access and
utilization o f health services, especially in rural and remote areas, and scale-up the production
and delivery o f health programs with an emphasis on endemic infectious diseases, reproductive
health and nutrition. To support this strategy, IDA financing i s likely to be pooled with
contributions from AFD and supported through parallel financing by other development partners.
To strengthen donor collaboration and ensure harmonization o f borrower and donor fiduciary
system, a Memorandum o f Understandingwill be signed by the government andthe cooperating
partners pooling their funds for this project.

151.    The Madagascar SHSDP has five components to be implemented by M O H and related
operating units located at the regional and district levels. A preliminary financial management
assessment carried out at the concept stage determinedthat the programwill be implemented ina
high-risk environment. This is derived from the fact that Government's financial management
systems are generally weak and capacity is low. The Ministry o f Health is no exception. In
addition, financial management capacity at the regional and district levels is weak. To address
this high fiduciary risk and efficiently meet the challenges o f Madagascar SHSDP, transitional
institutional arrangement was agreed with M O H specifying that the financial management
aspects o f this program will be entrusted to the financial management unit o f the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) o f the ongoing Second Health Sector Support Project (CRESAN 2)
which has extensive experience in managing Bank Funds. This unit will keep the existing
experienced and qualified fiduciary staff from CRESAN 2, including three accountants, and will
be in charge o f overall coordination o f the program as well as the fiduciary aspects, including
budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, disbursement operations and procurement. The unit is
expected to be supplemented with the redeployment o f a M O H accountant. The unit will be
supervised by the Administrative and Financial Director, who inturned will be supported by a
technical assistant for the duration o fthe project.

152.    The financial management arrangements o f M O H (through CRESAN 2) and related
operating units were assessedduring the pre-appraisal mission. The objective o f this assessment
was to determine whether these implementing entities have capacity to handle pooled donor
funds and have also inplace acceptable financial management arrangements, which will ensure:
i)thefundsareusedonlyfortheintendedpurposesinanefficientandeconomicalway; ii)the
preparation o f accurate, reliable and timely periodic financial reports that would allow the Bank,
other donors and the Government to plan and implement the program, monitor compliance with
agreed procedures, and assess progress towards its objectives; and iii)the entities' assets and
records are safeguarded. Given the decentralized nature o f the program and the number o f
operating units involved, the coordination and reporting mechanisms between these entities and
the PCU has been also looked at to ensure that the arrangements inplace will allow for smooth
implementation o f program's activities as well as to ensure that credit proceeds are usedonly for


                                                  57

the purposes for which the credit was granted, with due regard to economy, efficiency, and the
sustainable achievement of the program's development objectives. The assessment also includes
a determination o fthe program's readiness for report-based disbursement.

153.    The financial management assessment was carried out jointly with the AFD in
accordance with the World Bank Financial Management Practices Manual issued by the
Financial Management Board on November 3, 2005. With regard to operating units responsible
for the implementation o f project activities at the regional and district levels, the assessment was
undertaken for a representative sample, by using a set o f financial criteria, as these entities
generally use the same system and procedures, and have the same level o f capacity. The
conclusions o f this assessment were discussed with MOH representatives, i.e. the Director o f
Finance withinM O H and the national Coordinator o fthe ongoing CRESAN 2.

SummaryProjectDescription

154.    The primary focus o f Madagascar SHSDP i s to strengthenthe health system and increase
its capacity to provide the necessary production, financing, delivery and management support for
delivery o f services necessary to meet the eventual objectives o f reducing child and maternal
mortality, controlling illnesses due to malaria, sexually transmitted diseases, and HIV-AIDS.
Activities undertaken are expected to result in significant improvements across a range o f
demand-side, supply-side and institutional aspects o f the health system, especially in the
production and delivery o f quality services in rural and remote areas, inboth public and private
sectors.

155.    The likely contribution of each donor is as follows (subject to change):


         IDA                                           $ US$10 million
         AFD                                           $ US$18 million
         Total                                         $ U S 2 8 million

Countryissues

156.    The World Bank's CFANCPAR, completed in2003, and some diagnostic works carried
out over the last three years by the Bank and other donors, identified a range o f weaknesses and
issues hamperingthe performance o f Madagascar's budget and expenditure management system.
To address these issues, the Government developed in2004, 2005 and 2006, inconjunction with
all key development partners, a priority actionplanfor public finance reform.

157.    While overall implementation progress o f the reform program i s encouraging, significant
efforts are neededinthe following areas: i)improvement o f the budget execution rate inpriority
sectors; ii)strengthening o f the capacity o f the line ministries in public financial management,
especially inthe implementation o f the new program budget structure; iii)strengthening o f cash
management; iv) production o f the treasury accounts within the legal timeframe; v) increase in
the number o f skilled and experienced auditors at the "Chambre des comptes" commensurate
with the complexity and increased number of missions to be undertaken; and vi) reinforcement



                                                  58

o f control over State-owned companies and national public institutions. To mitigate risks in
public expenditure management, the World Bank, through the Governance and Institutional
Development Program, and a number o f donors continue to support Government's public finance
reforms reflected inits annual priority action plan.

158.     Regarding the accounting profession, some positive developments have been noted over
the last three years. However, a number o f local accounting firms continue to operate below the
international standards. To improve the capacity and the competitiveness o f local auditing firms,
the following measures have been taken while auditing Bank/IDA financed projects: i)
mandatory partnerships of local auditors with international accounting firms; ii)effective
participation o f the international accounting firm in audit fieldwork; and iii)submission o f audit
report jointly signed by the local and international audit firms. An accounting and auditing
Review on Standards and Codes would be certainly helpful to identify clearly both issues and
actions to be taken to strengthen the capacity o fthe accountingprofession inMadagascar.

159.     The use o f country systems still remains risky for Madagascar due to some fiduciary
weaknesses that require much more time to solve. As a result and after exchanges o f views with
the borrower (Ministry o f Finance and MOH) it was agreed, in the context o f SHSDP to use
partially the country system and to establish transitional financial management system
arrangements while the sectorhational fiduciary systems are beingstrengthened.

Strengths,Weaknesses andActionPlan

160.     The project financial management is strengthenedby the following salient features:
0   The organizational structure withinMOHKRESAN 2 defines the lines o fresponsibilities and
    authority that exist and seems appropriate for planning, directing and controlling operations.
0   CRESAN 2 has strong experience inmanaging World Bank funds. The accountinghudgeting
    system is adequate as well as the internal control system. It has also a qualified and trained
    accounting staff very knowledgeable with Bankprocedures.
0   Existence o f an internal auditor within CRESAN 2 that could be integrated into the Internal
    Audit Department to be created withinMOH.

161.     The main deficiencies noted inthe financial management system are summarized inthe
following table which also provides relevant measures to addressthem:

   Significant weaknesses                         Actions                  Date       Responsible
                                                                           due by
The DirectorateofFinancial      EnsureCRESAN2 accountingstaffretained     06101I07
Affairs (withinMOH) which is    inthe PCUstructure.
supposedto supervisethe PCU
accountingstaffis not familiar  Strengtheningthe financial management    Not later   MOWDFB
with the Bankproceduresin       capacity ofthe MOHby hiring, underterms  thanthree
financial managementand         and conditions acceptableto IDA, a      monthsafter
disbursement.                   TechnicalAssistant acquaintedwith both  effectiveness
                                national financialmanagementsystemand
                                BankFMprocedures.




                                                    59

   Significant weaknesses                           Actions                      Date       Responsible
                                                                                 due by
Lack ofqualified staffat the    Extensionof the contract ofthe seventeen        06/01/07    MOH/DFB
regional and district levels    (17) financial management officers recruited
                                under CRESAN2 to: i)provide the regional
                                operating units with necessarycapacitiesto
                                quickly disburseand accountfor funds o f
                                SHSDP; ii)ensure, at the regional and
                                district levels, the use of funds for the
                                purposesintended; and iii)assuretimely
                                preparationof periodic financial reports
                                required for proper monitoring of activities
                                implementedby regional operating units,
                                with respectto financial and physical
                                aspects.

                                Before credit effectiveness,atraining session
                                will be organizedto familiarize accounting      06/30/07    Consultant` IDA
                                staff ofMOH, PCUand all financial
                                management officers with the Bank
                                proceduresinfinancial management and
                                disbursements.
Absence o fa Chart of accounts  Elaboration of a chart ofaccounts in            05131/07    Consultant
reflecting program components   sufficient details (by categories, project
and activities outlined inthe   components/activities/objects, budgetary
Project ConceptNoteIProject     nomenclature, geographic codes) to satisfy
Appraisal Document.             reporting requirements.The Chart of
                                accounts and relatedaccountingprocedures
                                will be formalized inthe updatedaccounting
                                manual.

Absence o f an appropriate      Update and implementation of an accounting       Before     Consultant
accountingmanualof              manual ofproceduresacceptable to donorsto    Effectiveness
proceduresdescribingthe         provide clear guidanceto project staff
accountingsystem, the project   working both at the central, regional and
Chart of accounts, policies and districts levels
proceduresto be applied, and
models of financial statements  Organization of users training to ensure        06115/07    Consultant
and FMRs.                       proper application of procedures, proper
                                record keeping and adequatesafeguardingof
                                assets.
Absence of an internal audit    Creation of an internal audit department         Before     MOH
function                        within MOHto enhance internal controls and    effectiveness
                                address areas of concernidentified during
                                program implementation.
Incapacity ofthe computerized   Customizing and upgradingthe                    06115/07    Consultant
system inplace (used by the     computerizedaccountingsystem acquiredby
CRESAN2) to satisfy entirely    CRESAN2 in order to: i)meet the users
the needs ofMadagascar          needs; ii)satisfy the government,IDA and
SHSDP andthe requirementsof     other donorsrequirementsin
the Government, IDA, and other  financialltechnical information; and iii)
developmentpartners in          ensuretimely production ofannual financial
financiallaccounting /technical statements and quarterly Financial
information.                    Monitoring Reports(FMRs) for monitoring
                                program activities.



                                                       60

                                                                            due bv
                             Organization of users training by the          06/30/07    Consultant
                             consultant to ensure efficient use of all
                             modules offered by the software.
Absence of acceptable        Recruitment of an international private         Three      MOH, IDA
arrangements inauditing.     auditing firm acceptableto IDA to carry out  monthsafter
                             the audit ofMadagascar SHSDP accounts        effectiveness
                             jointly with the Auditor General. This audit
                             will be performedbi-annually and conducted
                             inaccordancewith International Standards of
                             Auditing.

InstitutionalandImplementationarrangements

Project oversight

162.   Policy guidance and overall project oversight will be the responsibility o f the Minister o f
Health who will execute its mandate by liaising with the Pool's Donors. The PCU, in close
collaboration with Directorate o f Financial Affairs (DAF) and the Directorate o f Planning (DEP),
will be in charge o f the annual program planning and budgeting. M O H through its General
Secretary will: i)assure consistency o f program activities with the Government's policy and
strategy; ii)approve the annual works programs and budgets; and iii)follow-up on project
performance and implementationprogress.

Project coordination and implementation

163.   The CRESAN 2 PCU will be responsible for program management including: i)
coordination o f the implementation o f the program; ii)consolidation o f the district work
programs and budgets; iii)maintenance o f records and separate accounts for all transactions
related to the PCU; iv) preparation, consolidation and production o f the program financial
statements, quarterly FMRs and other financial information required by the government; v)
management o f the pool account; and vi) monitoring and evaluation o f the various activities
supported under the project. The PCU i s currently headed by a Coordinator named by M O H and
includes specialists inaccounting, procurement and monitoring and evaluation.

164.   The implementationo fprogram activities will be entrusted to: i)technical departments o f
MOH; and ii)operating units at the regional/district levels, which will receive timely payments
from the PCU-based upon submission o f satisfactory quarterly budgeted work plans. The
operating units at the regional/district levels will manage disbursements from their own bank
accounts. Under the supervision o f the financial officer(s), they will maintain records and
accounts for all transactions related to them, and prepare financial report and other basic
information on project management/monitoringas requiredby the PCU.

Budgeting

165.   The expected program period for Madagascar SHSDP is two years and six months. A
program implementation plan and disbursement schedule has been drawn up and i s included in



                                                  61

the Project Appraisal Document. It is from this disbursement schedule (as may be subsequently
revised) that annual budgetswill be drawn.

166.    The annual budget will be prepared in line with the Government's policy and strategy.
The DAF, DEP and the Program Coordinator will be responsible for coordinating the preparation
of an annual budget for the program. Budgeting arrangements for the project will be described in
details inthe project accountingmanual o f procedures. The annual estimates will reflect financial
requirements o f the program and should be finalized three months before the beginning o f the
fiscal year, and submitted to the Ministry o f Finance for discussion and decision-making in
conformity with the defined calendar. The budget format will be based on the program
components/activities/categories/geographic codes. It will show: i)expenditure estimates per
quarter and a total expenditure for the whole year; and ii)funds expected from IDA, AFD and
other donors (ifany). The upgraded accounting software to be implementedwill be able to cater
adequately for the budgeting arrangements, comparing planned and actual costs and reporting
variances. Prior to implementation o f the project, M O H staff will attend a specific training to
ensure efficient use o fthe new system andproper preparation of FMRs.

Accounting

167.    Madagascar SHSDP will use an accounting system in compliance with generally
accepted accounting standards and the Plan Comptable des Ope'rations Publiques and donor
requirements.This system will operate on a double entry accrual principles and will use standard
book accounts (journals, ledgers and trial balances) to enter and summarize transactions.
Revenue will be recorded when cash is received, while expenses and related liabilities will be
recorded when incurred, especially upon receipt o f goods, works and services.

168.    The regional operating units will maintain a simple cash book showing clearly cash
received, payments made for each component/activities for which they have implementation
responsibility, and cash balances. They also will prepare on a quarterly basis, in collaboration
withthe financial officers, a more simplifiedform o freporting on sources anduses of funds, and
sendit to PCU for consolidationwith their activity reports.

169.    To strengthen the project financial management system, it was agreed that a consultant
will be recruited to update the accounting manual of procedures (for MOH/PCU and related
operating units) describingthe outline o f the accounting system(s), the accounting policies to be
followed, the Chart o f accounts, the formats o f books and records, the financial reporting, and
relevant information to facilitate record keeping and maintenance o f proper control over assets.
The consultant will also provide adequate training to staff to ensure better understanding and
proper application o f all procedures described in this manual. The accounting manual o f
procedures should be finalized and submittedto IDA prior to credit effectiveness.

170.    While all the donors involved in Madagascar SHSDP appreciate the need to use
government systems, the IFMIS system implementedwithin the Ministry o f Finance does not
serve the needs o f SHSDP without many urgent corrections in the short term. As this i s not
practicable, an interim measure has been therefore taken while the government system i s being
improved. To ensure timely production o f financial information required for managing and



                                                62

monitoring program activities, the PCU will use an integrated computerized system acquired
within the context o f the CRESAN 2, which in particular facilitates: annual programming o f
activities and project resources, record-keeping (general accounting and cost accounting),
financial and budgetary management, fixed assets management, procurement management,
preparationof CRESAN 2 financial statements and quarterly FMRsas required by IDA.

171.    However, this software needs to be customized and upgraded to: i)meet the users needs;
ii)satisfy the Government, IDA and other donors requirements in financial/technical
information; and iii)ensure timely production o f SHSDP program financial statements and
quarterly FMRs as requiredby donors for monitoring program activities. To avoid double data
capture, this system should also allow for extracting efficiently all required information from the
database ORACLE presently in place and used by M O H for recording commitments,
"liquidations" and settlement orders. The consultant in charge o f this update will provide users
training to ensure efficient use o f all modules offered by the software. The terms o f reference for
this consultant have been reviewed by the Bank Financial Management Specialist. Since the
update o f the software i s underway and expected to be finalized prior to June 15, 2007, the
inclusion o fthis measure as effectiveness condition will not be necessary.

InternalControlandInternalAuditing

172.    The CRESAN 2 PCU is beingtransformed into the PCU for the Madagascar SHSDP. It
will be staffed with: i)a qualified Financial Management Specialist acquainted with both
national financial management system and Bank financial management procedures, responsible
for overall supervision o f finance, accounting, budgeting and reporting; and ii)two qualified and
experienced accountants from CRESAN 2. To ensure effective transfer o f skills and allow the
PCU to respond to a possible increase o f the volume o f financial management tasks once other
donors provide financing, an accounting assistant will be selected among the M O H staff based
on qualification and experience. To strengthen the financial management capacity o f the DAF
and to help it to adequately supervise the PCU, a technical assistant acquainted with Bank
procedures will be recruited not later than two months after credit effectiveness.

173.    The M O H P C U and related operating units will have an administrative and accounting
procedures manual describing clearly the lines o f responsibilities and authority that exist with
appropriate segregation of duties. It will also provide sufficient information to facilitate record-
keepingand the maintenance o fproper control over assets.

174.    To ensure efficient use o f credit funds for the purposes intended and consistent
application o fprocedures on procurement, financial management, disbursement, an internal audit
Department will be created within M O H prior to credit effectiveness. This Department will
collaborate closely with the General Inspectorate for Finance when this later is fully functional,
and will report directly to the Minister o f Finance and the Minister o f Health. All issues
identified during internal audit should be addressed quickly to improve the program
performance.




                                                 63

FinancialReporting

175.    To monitor the implementation o f SHSDP, PCU will produce the following reports that
should be preparedincompliance with international accounting standards:
0  Annualfinancial statements comprising: i)Summary o f Sources and Uses o f Funds (by
    components/project activitieshredit category and showing all sources o f funds); ii)Project
    Balance Sheet; iii)the Accounting Policies Adopted and Explanatory Notes; iv) a
    Management Assertion.
    Quarter& FMRs: FMRs include financial reports, physical progress reports andprocurement
    reports to facilitate project monitoring. FMRs should be submitted to IDA within 45 days o f
    the end o f the reporting period (quarter). Models o f quarterly FMRs and annual financial
    statements will be presented inthe project accountingmanual o fprocedures.

Auditing

176.    The financial statements o f SHSDP (including the PHRD grant) will be audited by an
international private auditing firm acceptable to donor, incollaborationwith the Auditor General.
This audit will be performed bi-annually and conducted in accordance with International
Standards o f Auditing. The auditors should be recruited within three months after the
effectiveness date. The audit report will be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the
endo feachperiod. The auditors will berequiredto: i)express an opinion on the project financial
statements; ii)carry out a comprehensive review o f the internal control procedures and provide a
management report outlining any recommendations for their improvement. The terms o f
reference o f the audit will be reviewedby the financial management specialist of the Bank/IDA
to ensure the adequacy o f the audit scope, drawing special attention to particular risk areas
identifiedduringproject preparation.




                                                64

FundsFlow andDisbursementarrangements

177. Fundsflow arrangementsfor the project are as follows:




                           POOLEDACCOUNT




                                           BasicHealth




                           Contractors, suppliers of goods and services

178. For the implementation of SHSDP, the following bank accounts will be opened in local
commercial banksunder conditions satisfactory to donors:
  0  A Pooled Account to be managed by PCU: Denominated in $US, disbursements from
     the Pooled Donors Fund will be deposited on this account to: i) finance
     works/goods/services eligible under the Pooled Account as indicated in the Financing
     Agreement; ii)replenishregional bank accounts;
   0 Regional bank account(s: Denominated in local currency, disbursements fiom the
     Pooled Account will be depositedon these accounts opened inlocal commercial banksto
     ensure prompt payment of contractordsuppliers operating at the regional/district levels
     for works/goods/services eligible underthe Pooled Account;
   0 Donor Specialaccount(s):Denominated inforeign currency, these accountswill receive
     the contributions o f other donors opting to support the program through parallel
     financing (Parallel-Financing Donors).

179. While disbursing proceedsto the PooledAccount, the credit account may be usedto:
     .. reimbursethe borrower for expenditurespaidfrom the borrower's resources;
        advance credit proceeds into a pooled account of the borrower that i s held in a
        commercial bank acceptable to donors to finance eligible expenditures as they are


                                            65

        .. incurred and for which supporting documents will be provided at a later date (see
           below:Disbursementfrom the PooledAccount).
           makea direct paymentto a thirdparty;
           enter into specialcommitmentsinwriting to pay amountsto a thirdparty inrespect of
           expendituresto be financed out of the credit proceeds, upon the borrower's request
           andunderterms andconditionsagreedthe Bank andthe borrower.

180. There will be a minimum value for applications for direct payment, and special
commitment that may have to be made for transaction-based disbursements. The minimum
value will be documentedinthe disbursement letter relatedto SHSDP. The accounting manual
of procedures describes in details the application steps and requirements for requesting a
reimbursement,a direct paymentfor thirdparty, andapplyingfor a specialcommitment.

Disbursementfrom the PooledAccount

181. Flows of funds from the Pooled Account will be governed by a Memorandum of
Understandingthat will be signedby all donor partners andthe government.IDA and AFD will
deposit in the Pooled account their contribution as per agreed Annual Work Program, in an
agreed proportion and periodicity (on a six months basis) as defined in the Memorandum.
Disbursements to the Pooled account will be done based on quarterly FMRs. Under this
disbursementmethod, a forecast ofprogramexpenditureswill be agreedbetweenthe MOHPCU
and donors, covering a period of six months. The borrower may request an advance for an
amount not exceedingthis cash forecast. Supportingdocumentationfor these disbursementswill
submitted with the subsequent FMR and reviewedby donors to confirm eligible expenditures
duringthe periodcoveredby the FMR.The projectwill finance Goods (equipment, safe delivery
kits, drugs and medicalsupplies and maternalkits -- estimatedtotal value US$4.9million) and
Consulting Services for technical assistance, training and strengthening supervisory and
implementationcapacity at district and regional levels (estimated value US$4.25 million). In
addition, the project will finance project operating costs, financial audits and local costs of the
Demographic Health Survey (estimated value US$ 0.85 million). The cash request at the
reporting date will be the amount required for the forecast period as shown in the approved
FMRs less the balance in the Pooled Account at the end of the quarter. Subsequent
disbursements from Pooled Account will therefore be made in respect of this cash request.
Detailed disbursement procedures will be described in the project accounting manual of
procedures.

Disbursementfrom regionalbankaccounts

182. The amount to be advancedto each regional operating unit will be determined on the
basis of a quarterly work program for an amount not exceeding a fixed ceiling indicatedinthe
operations manual. Subsequent payments will be based on the satisfaction of certain criteria: a
technical (physical progress) and financial performance assessment carried out by MOHPCU
andsubmissionofacceptabledocumentationfor previousreleases.

183. Eachregionaloperatingunit will submit quarterly the following documents:i)a progress
report showingphysicalachievements, a summary of the use of funds by activity, and a copy of



                                               66

the bank statement. All documents supporting expenditures will be retained by the operating
units and made available for review by the PCU staff, the internal auditor, Badddonors
supervision mission andthe independent auditors as necessary.

SupervisionPlan

184.   Taking into account the level o f risk associated with the financial management aspects o f
this program, the financial management specialist will pay more frequent visits to the
MOH/CRESAN 2 to ensure timely implementation o f all actions expected to be inplace prior to
credit effectiveness. When project expenditures begin, a supervision mission will be conducted at
least twice a year based on the risk assessment o f the project. The mission's objectives will
include that o f ensuringthat strong financial management systems are maintained for the project
throughout its life. A review will be carried out regularly to ensure that expenditures incurred by
the project remain eligible for SHSDP funding. The Implementation Status Report will include a
financial management rating for the component. The financial management specialist will also
review quarterly FMRs, the audit reports and follow-up on timely implementation o f
recommendations from auditors.




                                                67

                             Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                 MadagascarSustainableHealth System DevelopmentProject

A.      GENERAL

185.    Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'' dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the
Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in the
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to
reflect the actual project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

186.    Advertisement: A General Procurement Notice will be published in UN Development
Business and Development Gateway Market (dgMarket) and will show all International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) for goods and works and major consulting service requirements.
Specific Procurement Notices will be issued inDevelopment Business and dgMarket and at least
one newspaper with nationwide circulation for ICB contracts and before preparation o f shortlists
with respect to consulting contracts above US$200,000, inaccordance with the Guidelines.

187.    Procurementof Works: Works procured under this project would include: provision o f
basic water and sanitation facilities at health centers, services to strengthen health centers. The
procurement will be done usingthe Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) for all ICB and
National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank. To the extent practicable, contract shall be
grouped into bidpackages estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$500,000 or more and would be
procured through ICB procedures. For contract estimated to cost less than US$500,000
equivalent per contract, civil work procurement may be carried out through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) and contracts for small works, estimated to cost less than
US$50,000, may be procured through quotations procedures. The bidding documents shall
include a detailed description o f the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, basic forms o f agreement acceptable to IDA and relevant drawings where
applicable. Specific procedures details can be found in the Project Implementation Manual
(PIM).

188.    Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include, office
furniture and equipment, vehicles, computer hardware and software, office equipment, mobile
health centers, and goods to strengthen health center to deliver basic package o f services
including the provision o f necessary drugs, equipment and testing facilities. The procurement
will be done usingthe Bank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to
the Bank. To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent o f US$250,000 or more and would be procured through ICB procedures. For
contract estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent per contract, procurement o f goods
may be carried out through N C B procedures and purchase o f small furniture estimated to cost
less than US$30,000 will be conducted through prudent shopping procedures.


                                                68

189.    Direct Contractingfor works and goods may be used in exceptional cases, such as for
the extension of an existing contract, standardization, proprietary items, spare parts for existing
equipment, and urgent repairs and emergency situations, according to paragraphs 3.6 and 3.7 o f
the Guidelines. The items to be procured through Direct Contracting would be agreed on inthe
procurement plans.

190.    Procurement of non-consultingservices: Procurement from United Nations agencies
for supplies carried out under their own procedures may include UNDP, UNICEF, WHO and/or
the International Agency Procurement Services Organization. The standard form o f contract
with UN agencies will be used for such procurement. The items to be procured from UN
agencies would be agreed on in the procurement plan if and when to be used. In addition,
SALAMA services may be usedas a procurement agent to purchase drugs and medical supplies
inaccordance withArticle 3.10 o fthe Guidelines.

191.    Selection of Consultants: The project will finance the contracting o f consultancy
services for technical assistance, financial and technical audits, and capacity building. Firmswill
be recruited on the basis o f the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method, using the
Bank's Standard Request for Proposals. Selection based on consultant's qualifications (CQ) can
be used for the recruitment o f training institutions and for assignments that meet criteria set out
inPara. 3.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines. Single source selectioncanbeusedto contract firms or
individuals for assignment that meet criteria set out in Para. 3.9 to 3.13 o f the Consultant
Guidelines and for contract which amount do not exceed US$lOO,OOO.            Specialized advisory
services would be procured through Individual Consultants Selection (ICs), based on the
qualifications o f individual consultants for the assignment in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

192.    OperatingCosts financedthrough the project would beprocuredusingthe implementing
agency's administrative procedures, which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. The
procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as well as model
contracts for works and goods procured, are presented inthe PIM.

193.    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions: The thresholds for prior review by
Bank are specified in the procurement plans. Table 1 shows (a) the proposed thresholds for the
different procurement methods, and (b) the proposed initially-agreed thresholds for prior review
by the Bank. The Bank will preview procurement arrangements proposed by the Borrower for
the items specified inthe procurement plans for their conformity with the Financing Agreement
and the applicable Guidelines. Any procurement item not specified for prior review may be
subjected to a post-review o fthe procurement process.




                                                  69

                       Table 1: Thresholdsfor Procurement M rthods and Prior Review
 ExpenditureCategory        ContractValue Procurement           ContractsSubjectto Prior
                            Threshold          Method           Review (US$)
                            (US$)
Works                       500,000 or more ICB                 All (none)
                            50,000 or more     NCB
                            and less than
                            500,000
                            Less than 50,000   Quotation
 Goods                      250,000 or more ICB                 All (3.4 million)
                            30,000 or more     NCB
                            andlessthan
                            250,000
                            Less than 30,000   Shopping
 ConsultantServices   -     200,000 or more QCBS                All (to be defined)
 Firms                                         CQS
                                               LCS
                                               sss              All (to be defined)
ConsultantServices    -     50,000 or more     ICs              All (to be defined)
 Individuals                                   sss              All (to be defined)

B.     ASSESSMENTTHE AGENCY'S CAPACITY TO IMPLEMENT PROCUREMENT
                      OF

194.   As agreedwith MOH, procurement activities will be carried out by the procurement unit
of the on-going SecondMadagascar SecondHealth Project (CRESAN 2). This unit will function
as a M O H procurement unit in accordance with the provisions of Madagascar Procurement
Code. The CRESAN procurement unit is currently duly staffed with two proficient procurement
officers and an assistant.

195.   A newassessment of the capacity of this unitwithinthe CRESAN 2 project coordination
unit to implementprocurement actions for the project was undertaken by Sylvain Rambeloson
(PS) and Lova Ravaoarimino (PA) in March 2007. The assessment reviewed the organizational
structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible
for procurement andthe Management's relevant central unit for administration and finance.

196.   The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation of the project have
been identified and include the phasing of activities to be undertaken and possible cases of
emergency. The corrective measures which have been agreed are being followed up along with
implementation of the agreed procurement plan and activity scheduling. A procurement action
planwill be fine-tunedquarterly andthe mainprocurement planwill be updated accordingly.

197.   The overall project risk for procurement is average.


                                               70

                    Tabk 2: ProcurementRiskA
     Designation                 Concerns              Riskmitigation            Duedate
Planning and               Lack o f budget                                Before project
budgeting                  planning                  Development o f cost implementation
Executionand               Lack of internal Audit and contract
monitoring                                          management control

Staffing                   Competent but still      Organization o f      Before project
                           new for 2004             procurement clinic to implementation
                           Guidelines               inform the staff on
                                                    newfeatures o f2004
                                                    Guidelines
Competition among          Lack o f advertisement Use o f GPN at          Duringproject
private sector                                      national level        implementation
                                                    Use o f Bank
                                                    procedure for
                                                    advertising
Project management         Lack o f definition of   Project               By project
                           responsibilities         implementation        effectiveness
                                                    manualto be ur>dated

C.       PROCUREMENTPLAN

198.     The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation
which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the
Borrower and the Project Team on March 30, 2007 and i s available at the CRESAN office. It
will also be available in the project's database and in the Bank's external website. The
Procurement Plan will be updated inagreement with the Project Team annually or as requiredto
reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D.       FREQUENCY OF PROCUREMENTSUPERVISION

199.     In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment o f the ImplementingAgency has recommended annual supervision missions
to visit the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.




                                                  71

E.      DETAILS OF THE PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTSINVOLVING INTERNATIONAL
COMPETITION

1.      Goods, Works, and NonConsultingServices

(a) List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:

                         3           4                                  7        18        19
                                                                                 I         I

 Ref.    Contract        Estimated Procurement                          Review    Expected  Comments
 YO.     (Description)   cost        Method                             by Bank Bid-
                                                           (yesho)      (Prior  / Opening

                          1,200,000     ICB/NCB
           47 primary


                          1,200,000      ICBAJN                           Prior   May 2008
             Kitsfor                     agencies
           normal and
          complicated                                                   I
              births
                                                                        __c;_c_
 C.1.3      Drugs and     1,500,000  ICB/SALAMA                           Prior  IMay2008  I
             medical                                      I   No
                          1,000,000  ICBBALAMA                            Prior   Ma 2008

(b) ICB contracts estimated to cost above US$500,000 for works and US$250,000 for goods per
contract and all direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

2.      ConsultingServices

(a) List of consulting assignments with short-list o f international firms.

 1     2                                    3            4          5          6          7

Ref. DescriptionofAssignment                Estimated Selection Review         Expected   Comments
No.                                         cost         Method     by Bank Proposals
                                                                    (Prior / Submission
                                                                    Post)      Date


 C1.5 Review of essentialdrugs at the first  200,000        ICs        Post     Mar 2008
         and secondreferral health centers
 C1.6 Assessment ofthe institutional and     200,000        ICs        Prior    Oct 2008
           organizationalperformanceof
                      hospitals




                                                  72

C2.1    Development ofprotocols for           75,000      ICs    Prior  Jan 2008  Multiple
    improvingthe working conditions of                                            Contracts
       medical personnelinrural areas
C2.2 Development andmanagement of             75,000    QCBS      Post  Jan 2008  Multiple
      career plans andeffective human                                             Contracts
        resources managementtools
C2.3 Development and implementation of       750,000     CBS     Prior Nov 2007   Multiple
            new training strategies                                               contracts
-                                                      icin Mana ement
C3.1 Development of innovative resource      200,000
          mobilizationmechanisms                                                  contracts

C3.2  Development oftools to improve         200,000    QCBS     Prior May 2008   Multiple
     management of available public and                  CQS                      contracts
-                private funds                            ICs
c3.3     Development andtesting of           200,000    QCBS     Prior May 2008   Multiple
        innovative provider payment                                               Contracts
         mechanismsandcontracts,

C4.1    Incentives for promoting safe        500,000     CQS/    Prior  Jan 2008  Multiple
          delivery inhealth centers                       ICs                     contracts
C4.2 Strengtheningcommunity awareness        150,000     CQS     Prior Mar 2008   Multiple
       through social mobilizationin6                                             contracts
                  communes
C4.3   Implementation of (( Commune          150,000    QCBS      Post May2008    Multiple
          mendrika approachin6
                     ))                                                           contracts
                  communes
C4.4   Organization of integratedIEC         150,000    QCBS      Post May 2008   Multiple
            campaigns at all levels                                               contracts
C4.5  Pilot initiative to increaserate of    100,000     CQS     Prior April 2008
               tuberculosiscure
                                      InstitutionalStrengthening
C5.1    Strengtheningsupervisory and        1,000,000     ICs    Prior Dec 2007   Multiple
     implementation capacity at district                                          contracts
             and regional levels
C5.2  StrengthennationalM&Esystem            100,000    QCBS/    Prior Feb2008    Multiple
             (MAP,PDSS, PGE)                              ICs                     contracts
C5.3    Support to the National Health       100,000     CQS/   IPrior Mar2008    Multiple
         InformationSystem (NHIS)                         ICs                     Contracts
C5.4 Establishmentofa Center for Health      100,000     CQS/    Prior April 2008 Multiple
          Policy andDevelopment                           ICs                     Contracts
C5.5  Support to the DHS for operating       400,000                    Jan 2008
                     costs
C5.6   Financial andTechnical Audits         100,000    QCBS/    Prior  Jan 2009   Two
                                                          ICs                     Contracts
C6.6       Project OperatingCosts            350,000




                                                 73

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO        per contract and single source
selection of consultants (firms) and o f individualconsultants assignments estimated to cost above
US$50,000 will be subject to prior reviewby the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.




                                                 74

                             Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
                  MadagascarSustainableHealth SystemDevelopmentProject

200.     The underlying rationale for Madagascar SHSDP - the need for the government to
improve budget sustainability by incrementally increasing public financing for the health sector,
mitigating allocative and technical inefficiencies, improving targeting o f resources for vulnerable
groups and high priority health programs, and for reducing fragmentation in donor support and
strengthening linkages with MAP and PDSS -i s a valid one.

I. INTRODUCTION:            MACROECONOMIC          CONTEXT

201.     With less thanU S 3 0 0 per capita andabout 70 percent o f its populationlivinginpoverty,
Madagascar i s one o fthe poorest countries inthe world. After becoming independentin 1961the
country witnessed a long period o f economic decline due to poor governance and protectionist
and inward looking policies. Two liberalization episodes inthe late 1980s and 1990s improved
economic performance. After the second episode, the country experienced a period o f growth
powered by the dynamisms o f the industries that benefited from preferential trade access.
Between 1997 and 2001, GDP grew at about 4 percent per year, while inflation was kept under
control. However, the political crisis in 2002 halted this trend as GDP dropped by about 13
percent.

202.     After 2002 the new Government's sound macroeconomic management was able to
consolidate the gains o f previous liberalizations and, despite large external shocks (e.g.,
cyclones, high oil prices, and the elimination o f the multifiber agreement), growth resumed and
has continued at about 5 percent per year. Recent GDP growth has come largely from
improvements inagriculture, increased tourism receipts, andpublic investments. Through a tight
monetary policy, inflation was also brought under control after a 27 percent rate in2004.

                                   Table 1:Key Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                                                               2006
                                 1997     1998   1999    2000  2001  2002  2003  2004   2005   estimates
GDP growth                           3.7    3.9    4.7     4.7     6 -12.7   9.8   5.3     4.6       4.7
Per capitaGDP US$                250.7    256.9  248.3   250.3 284.6 278.1 323.9   251 281.8       298.3
Inflation rate CPI                  4.8    6.4    10.1     9.9   4.8  13.9  -0.8  27.3    11.4      10.8
Total Revenue                                                   10.1     8  10.3    12    10.9      11.4
FiscalRevenue                                                    9.6   7.5   9.8  10.9    10.1      10.7
Grants                                                           3.9   2.2   5.1   8.2     5.7     47.4
Total GovernmentExpenditure                                     18.4  15.7  19.5  25.1   21.2      21.5
Global balanceincluding grants                                  -3.6  -5.5  -4.1  -4.8    -4.6     37.3
Poverty rate                         73                          70     81        72.1   68.9
Poverty rate rural                   76                          77     86        77.3   73.5
Poverty rate urban                   63                          44     62        53.7     52
Source: Madagascar PER based on datafrom IMF and EMP surveys

203.     Despite all this progress many challenges remain giventhe country's low socioeconomic
indicators and the government's difficulties in mobilizing internal resources. Fiscal resources
have never been above 11 percent o f GDP while the country depends more and more on highly



                                                      75

unpredictable foreign funds. Nevertheless, the country has benefited from the HIPC initiative; in
2006 alone the country received US$2.3 billion indebt reduction, close to 43 percent o f its GDP.

11.     ECONOMICANALYSIS I:TRENDSIN HEALTH                       FINANCINGAND IMPLICATIONS FOR
BUDGETSUSTAINABILITY'

204.    The country spends very little on health, a situation that will worsen once donor financed
projects close. This financing gap cannot be lessened in the short run with internal resources
giventhe Government's macroeconomic constraints. Madagascar SHSDP aims at filling this gap
while at the same time lessening some o f the public expenditure management bottlenecks the
 Government confronts: volatility o f donor funds and large transaction costs created by projects
with differentmanagement andreportingmechanisms.

205.    According to the National Health Accounts (NHA) 2003, Madagascar spent about US$12
per capita on health that year, corresponding to about 3.5 percent o f GDP. As seen in Table 2,
these numbers are below the median in the region and much below the US$30 to US$40 per
person per year recommended by the WHO to finance a package o f essential services
 (Commission for Health and Macroeconomics, WHO, 2002). At the current level o f
 expenditures, the country will not be able to achieve the health related MDGs. MOH, with the
 support of UNICEF, calculated that an additional US$ 5.40 per capita would be needed in the
nextthree years to achieve a 41 percent reduction inchild mortality and a 35 percent reduction in
neonatal and maternal mortality neededto sustain progress inachieving these MDGs.

              Table2: Comparison in health expenditure indicators between Madagascar




Ethiopia                        5.7                     4.3                55.1                   44.9
Kenya                           4.9                     19.2               56.0                   44.0
Malawi                          9.8               Not available            58.9                   41.1
(Mozambique                      5.8                    8.9       I        71.O                   29.0    I
IRwanda                         4.1                     12.7     I         50.6          II       48.8    I
ITanzania            III        4.9           III Not available  I         45.2          I        54.8    I
Uganda                          7.4               Not available            72.1                   27.9
Zambia                          5.8                     17.4               47.1                   52.9
 Sub-Saharan African            6.0
countriesmedian                               I         12.9     I         57.1          I        42.9    I
Source: MOH. 2005. Madagascar National Health Accounts 2003


206.    External assistance i s the main source of financing in the sector, representing about 37
percent o f total spending on health (NHA, 2003). This large percentage of total expenditure
financed by foreign aid represents a challenge for MOH, which manages most o fthese resources.
 'Thissectionborrowsheavily from the MadagascarPERHealthChapter.
2 The expenditureofthe rest o fthe world(5 percent)was addedto that ofthe publicsector (55 percent).


                                                        76

207.      The high volatility and unpredictability o f these funds and the complexity of managing
projects with different procurement and monitoring mechanisms make budget planning and
execution inthe ministry difficult.




Total budget allocation (real inbillion Ariary)




Source: Madagascar PER Health Chapter based on datafrom theMinistry of Economics,Finance, and Budget

208.      Public funds represent the next largest source (32 percent), followed by private, mainly
out-of-pocket expenditure (3 1 percent). Even though foreign aid represents the principal source
o f financing inthe sector, the public sector is the main financing agent, managing 55 percent o f
the funds. M O H manages the large majority o f these funds, more than 80 percent o f all public
expenditure on health in the last decade. Public expenditure on health, more specifically M O H
expenditure, has remained stable in the last years at about 6 to 7 percent o f total Government
expenditure. However, the budget allocation to the Ministry has actually decreased slightly as
percentage o f the total Government budget from almost 8 percent in 2000 to about 6 percent in
2006 (see Table 3). This decrease moves the country farther away from the Abuja consensus o f
allocating 15 percent o ftotal Government expenditure to the health sector.

209.      Not only have budget allocations to the sector decreased as percentage o f total budget,
the execution rate o f the budgethas remained low. Between 1997 and 2005 the execution rate o f
M O H has averaged 77 percent only, well below levels in other ministries. Factors that explain
the limited absorptive capacity include: (i)late nomination o f key functionaries in the
expenditure chain; (ii)limited management capacity and lack o f clear definition o f
responsibilities among the budget administrators; (iii)complex and numerous budget and
procurement procedures; and (iv) difficulties inthe coordinationo f donors.

210.      The per capita real expenditure from MOH in dollar terms has remained below US$4 in
the last decade, showing .amarkeddecrease after 2003. In2005 the country was spending only
about US$2 per capita on health care, partly due to a marked devaluation o f the local currency.
The total healthbudget for M O H in2006 fell short o f the projections made inthe MediumTerm
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) o f the sector (2005). The MTEF document contains four
scenarios o f possible health expenditures from 2006 to 2014. Table 4 shows two o f those
scenarios. The first i s the most conservative one, in that it assumes that the country will not
achieve the Abuja consensus o f having a health budget equal to 15 percent o f the total



                                                        77

Government budget by the year 2014. The other three scenarios make this assumption but the
increase inexpenditure across the years follows different paths. The second scenario, also shown
inTable 4, assumes a linear increase inthe healthbudgets.

211.    As can be seen in Table 4, even inthe most conservative scenario the projected budget
for 2006 i s much larger than the actual budget; the difference i s about MGA 28 billion. In the
second scenario the difference i s MGA 80 billion. Due to the low execution rate of the ministry,
the difference with actual expenditure i s much larger.

            Table4: Comparison between actual health budget andprc ections of the MTEF
                                      Actual                          MTEF Projections
                                      2004       2005     2006       2006            2007     2008
Scenario 1                                                              ~~    ~~    ~




Healthbudget as % o ftotal                7.60       5.80      5.90       6.59           6.97     7.35
Governmentbudget
Healthbudget (in billionsofAriary)      141.96      86.93    164.61    192.39          235.75   279.11
Healthbudgetper capita/MGA                5779       7955      9094    10 600          12 673   14 640
Budgetper capita/US$                      3.09       3.97      4.17       5.89           7.04     8.13
Healthexpenditureper capita/MGA           8554       5082
Healthexpenditureper capita/US$           4.57       2.53
Scenario 2
Health budget     as    % of     total    7.60       5.80      5.90       7.50           8.33     9.16
Governmentbudget
Healthbudget (in billionsofAriary)      141.96      86.93    164.61    245.35          315.19   385.03
Healthbudgetper capita/MGA                5779       7955      9094    13518           16944    20 196
Budgetper capita/US$                      3.09       3.97      4.17       7.5 1          9.41    11.22
Healthexpenditureper capita/MGA           8554       5082
Healthexpenditureper capita/US$           4.57       2.53




212.    The Government i s unlikely to sustain even these low levels o f expenditures on health,
much less achieve the expenditure levels o f MTEF, without additional financial aid from the
donor community. The CRESAN 2 project which has financially supported the health sector
since 1999 i s expected to close in December 2007. This project alone increased the funding o f
the ministryby US$40 million. For instance, in2004 this project financed close to 31 percent o f
all M O H expenditures classified as investments. This figure rose to 65 percent in 2005. Other
projects that have also supported the sector are also approaching their closing dates, including
the Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Project (US$20 million), which will also close in December
2007, and the Community Development Fund (US$ 176m), which will be closing on December
2008.

213.    Madagascar SHSDP intendsto fill the financial gap for the sector, while at the same time
lessen some o f the distortions created by the fragmented foreign aid. Currently foreign support to
the sector is mainly organizedthrough projects, although the government has also benefitedfrom
general budget support from the World Bank and the EU. As mentioned above, the volatility o f
donor funds as well as the complex and different management and monitoring procedures for


                                                 78

each project has created large transaction costs for the ministry. As seen in Table 5, investment
expenditure in the sector has experienced large variations, partly due to the volatility of donor
funds which financed most o f this expenditure and to a low execution rate o f this expenditure. As
in all programmatic approaches, all donors agree not only to support a health strategy with a
corresponding MTEF but also to progressively harmonize their procedures to follow a unique
monitoring and evaluation system. This coordination and harmonization between donors will
lessen the volatility o f donor support and will decrease the transaction costs o f the ministry as it
would not need to follow different procedures to manage different projects.

                        Table 5: Growth rate of investment expenditure of MOH
                                         1998     1999  2000   2001    2002   2003    2004      2005
Yearly change ininvestmentexpenditure    65       -3    26     8       -79    396      164      -82
Source: WorldBank. PER Health Chapter



111.    ECONOMICANALYSIS 11: ADDRESSINGEFFICIENCY AND EQUITY IN THE HEALTH
SECTOR-JUSTIFICATION GOVERNMENT
                              OF                 INTERVENTION AND EFFICIENCY BENEFITS FROM
MADAGASCAR        SHSDP

214.    Government intervention in some o f the activities financed by Madagascar SHSDP is
justified as they are aimed at reducing market failures due to the presence o f externalities or
public goods. In addition, SHSDP will also finance activities aimed at reducing the inequalities
in access and utilization of health services. Finally, some of these activities will also improve
efficiency inthe use o fpublic resources.

Externalities

215.    One o f the commonjustifications for government intervention inmarkets is the presence
o f externalities, where economic agents can impose a cost or benefit to others without paying or
charging for it. Without government intervention too much o f the negative effect or too little o f
the benefitwould beproduced.

216.    Infectious diseases, particularly malaria, are the major causes o f mortality and morbidity
inMadagascar, especially among children under five. Whenpreventingor treating an infectious
disease individuals do not necessarily take into account the effect o f their action (or lack thereof)
on others. Without government intervention the level o f preventive and curative efforts will be
lower than optimal. Madagascar SHSDP aims precisely at financing many activities aimed at
prevention and treatment o f many o f these diseases such as: immunization for childhood
illnesses, testing and treatment o f sexually transmitted diseases, etc (see Tables 9-13 below).

Public Goods

217.    In addition some o f the interventions used to prevent infectious diseases can be
characterized as public goods. Nobody can be excluded from benefiting from a public good and a
person benefiting from it does not decrease the potential benefit to others. These characteristics
render almost impossible the private provision o f these goods. One example o f public goods is
vector control, such as indoor and outdoor spraying to control malaria; another example is the


                                                   79

collection and dissemination o f public information for the control o f diseases and the supportive
laboratories to monitor safe drugs, food, and water. SHSDP will finance such activities. In fact,
the entire component 5 o f the proposed project -which aims at the development o f a monitoring
and evaluationplan, development o f a National Health Information System, and strengthening of
the analytical capacity o f the Government for monitoring and evaluation - can be justified by
these same considerations.

218.    Similarly, some information campaigns for activities without an associated marketable
product will make private provision very difficult, justifying government intervention. Among
the activities financed by Madagascar SHSDP that fit into that category are campaigns to
sensitize families on behavior change, and campaigns to promote and widespread the WASH
strategy.

Equity

219.    There are large income inequalities in the utilization o f health services in Madagascar,
due partly to lower physical access to health services in rural isolated areas, and partly to
financial and cultural barriers to access services. Government provision o f services can also be
justified on the basis o f equity considerations, and many activities that will be financed by
Madagascar SHSDP meet this criterion.



  120 -                                         100 1

  100 -

  80 -

  60 -

  40 -

  20 -
                                                           ,        ,         ,        ,       ,
   0 7                                           0




220.    Ingeneral, a case canbe made for the provision ofhealth services that the poor consume
more than the non-poor, where the income elasticity o f consumption i s low. People living in
rural isolated areas are more likely to be poor than people living inurban areas. The poverty rate
inurban areas is about 52 percent while inrural areas is about 74 percent. Therefore, services
targeted to the latter are more likely to be used by the poor, which is the case for mobile clinics
for isolated areas and areas with low density o f population, financed by SHSDP. In addition,
preventive and treatment services for infectious diseases can also benefitthe poor more than the
rich as they are more likely to suffer from these diseases. For instance, even though in general
people inthe upper end o f the income distribution tend to report more illness cases than the non-
poor, the last EPM household survey showed that the poor were more likely to report malaria
and diarrhea than the non-poor (Table 7). The provision o f services to treat and prevent these
diseases will therefore benefit the poor more than the non-poor.


                                                 80

             Table 7: Type of illnessreported in the last two weeks across income quintiles
Illness                              Poorest   I1           I11          Iv            Richest  Total
Fever or suspicionof malaria         46,9      42,9         48,9         41,9           39,9    43,9
Diarrheal diseases                   12,s      14,2         13,l         12,l           10,6    12,4
Source: EMP 2005

221.     A similar case can be made for the financing o f basic health services, especially inrural
areas, as these services tend to be used more by the poor than by the rich who visit private
services or higher level public facilities (Table 8). Madagascar SHSDP will finance the
rehabilitation and equipment o f basic health services in all the country, the contracting and
redeployment o f nurses and midwives to basic health centers, and efforts to improve maternal
and child health. These latter efforts will be mainly done through community mobilization to
ensure that the poor and vulnerable benefit from them.

222.     As the private sector is almost not present inrural areas, improving the services provided
bypublic service facilities does not risk the displacement o fthe private sector inthese areas.

           Table 8: Place of consultation across income quintiles and urban and rural areas
                          CH*        CSB 1      CSB 2      Private clinic Private doctor Other   Total
Urban
Poorest                   20.1       18.6       38.8       3.1            3.2             16.2   100.0
I1                        14.9       11.3       31.6       5.9            24.3            12.1   100.0
I11                       20.4       14.7      25.4        16.3           13.2            10.0   100.0
I V                       11.2       10.5      29.4        8.1            31.9           8.9     100.0
Richest                   23.3       4.9       20.6        7.5            32.7            11.0   100.0
Total                     19.0       9.5       26.2        8.3            26.0            11.0   100.0
Rural
Poorest                   5.1        25.5       58.0       0.9            6.2            4.1     100.0
I1                        4.9        19.0       53.9       2.1            7.0             13.0   100.0
I11                       3.5        12.9       56.9       3.O            12.6            11.3   100.0
IV                        1.2        11.6       66.9       2.1            11.4           6.9     100.0
Richest                   5.7        10.0       50.8       3.6            20.4           9.4     100.0
Total                     4.0        15.1       57.3       2.5            12.2           9.1     100.0
Source: EMP 2005

223.     Madagascar SHSDP will also finance activities aimed at identifying and implementing
innovative financing strategies to provide consistent quality services and to increase the use o f
these services by the poor, through mechanisms such as mutual insurance or social security.
Currently, most private expenditure on health i s out-of-pocket expenditure, which i s extremely
regressive and exposes families to the risk o f impoverishment in case of illness. O n average
households spend about 1 percent o f their total expenditure on health. However, not all
households report expenditures on health in a given year, but for those that do this expenditure
can represent a larger burden. For instance, the average cost o f an outpatient consultation (as
reported in EPM 2005) was about MGA 6,000 or about 2 percent o f the yearly per capita
expenditure inthe country.




                                                   81

82

improvements as the largest percentage was used for both preventive and public health services
and ambulatory care. However, there i s room for improvement, as a fifth o f all resources went to
the central administration o f the ministry and as many resources, about 0.5 percent o f the entire
budget o f 2006, went to the construction o f a medical complex in Antananarivo. Madagascar
SHSDP project will further improve the allocative efficiency o f public expenditure as it will
finance preventive care, public health activities, and - in the case o f hospital care - will only
finance first referral hospitals for activities related to maternal health. More specifically, the
focus o f Madagascar SHSDP is on the most cost-effective interventions to prevent and treat the
illnesses that represent the major burden o f disease in Madagascar by emphasizing health
interventions that can be provided by the households and communities themselves and for those
that can be provided at primary health care facilities. This is reflected in the project's emphasis
on information campaigns, strengthening o f community participation on health care, and on
improving the quality o f the services provided by basic health centers. By improving
coordination and harmonization among donors, Madagascar SHSDP will also improve allocative
efficiency by diminishingtransaction costs and thus diminishing administrative costs that M O H
has when handling different donor supported projects.

Iv. ECONOMICANALYSIS111:SYSTEMSAND                   PROCESS-RELATEDBENEFITS

227.     The benefits o f Madagascar SHSDP can be determined in terms of: (i)           systems- and
process-related benefits, e.g., better planning, financing, organization and management o f the
health sector and other key actors; and (ii)   household-oriented benefits, as exemplified by better
access and utilization o f health services and improved health status, especially o f vulnerable
groups living inrural areas, women and children.

228.    Health care delivery reforms under PDSS and the activities supported by SHSDP aim to
improve boththe quality o f services and access to the poor:
    Access to good qualityprimary care services. A key element o f the PDSS i s strengthening o f
    access to basic health services in rural and remote areas, which are services used
    predominantly by poor, rural populations. Improved quality o f care at the primary care level
    and improved access will have positive impacts on poverty reduction. The increased
    utilization o f quality health services at the primary acre level i s expected to reduce the need
    for hospitalization, protect poor households against financial shocks. The benefits o f
    increased primary care funding will go disproportionately to the poorer households who
    currently receive no or poor quality o f services.
    Expansion of coverage for priority programs. Improvements in mother and child health,
    prevention o f the spread o f HIV/AIDS, addressing communicable diseases, etc. have been
    identified as priority areas for coverage expansion under PDSS. All four are critical health
    issues for the poor, and to this extent the expansion o f services will directly benefit the poor
    by reducingbarriers to access to care
    Improvement in implementation and monitoring capacity. Even if Madagascar SHSDP and
    the government health strategy are technically sound and cost effective, the expected results
    will not be attained ifthe government does not have the capacity to implement them. MOH
    has not been able to execute its entire budget in recent years and has had difficulties in
    ensuring an equal or at least a progressive distribution o f financial and human resources
    across the country, and therefore not beenable to reachvulnerable and isolated pockets o f the



                                                   83

   population. Without removing these bottlenecks in the management o f human and financial
   resources, the health system will not be able to fully reap the benefits o f investments. Despite
   the government's strong commitment, improvements in service delivery will be limited
   without improvements inthe capacity o f the different levels o f the ministry, particularly the
   district level which i s in charge o f service delivery. Madagascar SHSDP will finance many
   activities aimed at strengthening capacity at various levels inthe health system, including at
   the district levels to manage primaryhealth care services.

229.    The Madagascar SHSDP supports the overall development and strengthening o f health
systems. The project will also provide technical assistance for capacity building, with the aim o f
strengthening institutions and promoting good governance. In contributing to sustainability, it
will finance diagnostic and analytic work for evidence-based policy development, which will
enhance the quality o f domestic policy debates. It will facilitate the introduction o f stronger
incentives for results, and strengthen collaboration and consistency across sectors in order to
promote development effectiveness. And finally, it will support the development of strategic
partnerships with donor agencies and other actors with the aim o f promoting harmonization and
aid effectiveness. Activities financed and undertaken under Madagascar SHSDP are expected to
result in significant improvements across a range o f demand-side, supply-side and institutional
aspects o fthe health system, especially inthe production and delivery o f quality services inrural
and remote areas, in both public and private sectors. Visible results are expected in the
deployment, effectiveness and morale o f health teams at service delivery points, inparticular in
remote areas, accompanied by less obvious but important changes in the nature o f support
provided to them by district, regional and central level managers. In sum, all activities and
interventions financed under Madagascar SHSDP are aimed at strengtheningo fthe health system
inorder to scale-up the production and delivery o f health programs, and improve overall access
andutilization ofhealthservices, especially inrural andremote areas.




                                                 84

                               Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                 Madagascar SustainableHealth System Development Project

230.    The objective o f Madagascar SHSDP is to strengthen the health system and increase its
capacity to provide the necessary production, financing, delivery and management support for
delivery o f key services, and as such, will mostly involve activities such as: policy and
institutional reforms; financing reforms; strengtheninghuman and institutional capacity; support
to priority health programs to control major diseases or to address health issues; and community
involvement in local health service management and support to community-based health
activities. Civil works involved will be mostly rehabilitation o f existing health facilities and the
project will not support acquisition o f land for the construction o f health facilities. N o negative
environmental impact i s envisaged inthe proposed program. Thus the project is rated as category
B and only triggers OP 4.01 with regards to arrangements for handling and disposal o f medical
waste. Although the project may finance malaria campaign activities as a lender o f last resort if
the Presidential Malaria Initiative is not able to sufficiently finance the malaria program,
Madagascar ratified the Stockholm convention in2005, and the Government does not plan to use
any DDT inspraying duringthe Bank Project implementationperiod.

231.    The handling, collection, disposal and management o f health care waste and other
infected materials i s the most significant environmental issue associated with the national health
program. The inappropriate handling o f infected materials constitutes a risk not only for the staff
in hospitals and in municipalities who are involved in health care waste handling and
transportation, but also for families and street children who scavenge on dump sites, most which
are inadequate. To mitigate this risk, a Medical Waste Management Plan (MWMP) should be
available and be appropriately costed with clear institutional arrangements for its execution.

232.    A MWMP was developed for the Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Prevention Project (MSPP),
and i s under implementation. Prior to appraisal o f the MSPP 11, it was disclosed in-country and
inthe Infoshop. The existingMWMP includes proper disposal of hazardous bio-medical waste
and a bio-safety training program for the staff o f all hospital, health centers and community-
based programs, including traditional midwifes and practitioners, who may be involved in
HIV/AIDStestingandtreatment.

233.    Moreover, the National Policy on Medical Waste Management was adopted in September
2005 by an interdepartmental decree N o 2006-680 o f September 12, 2006. This policy primarily
relates to solid waste with a summary description on the liquidwaste, and contains the following
elements: (i) and specific objectives as regards management o f medical waste; (ii)
               global                                                                             the
legal framework and law; (iii)   waste characteristics with the prescribed elimination modes; (iv)
norms, safety standards and measures to be adopted as well as critical equipment; and (v) a
description o f the monitoring system and an action plan with impact and results indicators for a
period o f four years.

234.    The Government recently modified the plan and policy to include more details on the
management o f liquid waste from health facilities. The revised plan was approved and disclosed
on March 23,2007 inthe Infoshop and disclosed in-country over the period March 20-26, 2007.


                                                 85

Two agencies are responsible, respectively, for: (i)implementation o f the plan; and (ii)
supervision o fthe implementation o fthe plan at the provincial and district levels.

235.    ImpZementing theplan. M O H has beenresponsible for implementation o f the MWMP,
and has demonstrated capacity to properly implement the plan. Since May 2004, MOH has
installed 200 small-scale burnersto burnmedical wastes in all health centers rehabilitated under
the CRESAN I1Project. Supervision missions determined that burners are being used at the
CHD o f Ankazobe, Antanifotsy and Faratsiho. The Plan also includes specific medical waste
disposal and management actions, to be carried out in Madagascar's different types o f health
facilities. MOHhas demonstrated the ability to plan for and prepare these activities.

236.     Supervisingimplementation of theplan. The Office for the Environment o fthe Ministry
o f the Environment has beenresponsible for supervising its implementation at the provincial and
district level. It has performed this role satisfactorily. Thus the Borrower has demonstrated the
capacity to properly develop and implement a MWMP, which i s the only safeguard-related study
required for this project. MOH has demonstrated clear ownership o f the problems related to
management o f medical waste. It has beenan integral player inthe development o fthis policy as
well as IEC and training activities conducted at various levels.




                                                 86

                         Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision
                 Madagascar SustainableHealth System Development Project

                                          Planned                     Actual
PCNreview                                 2/12/2007                   2/12/2007
Initial PIDto PIC                         211212007                   2/12/2007
Initial ISDSto PIC                        211212007                   2/15/2007
Appraisal                                 3/22/2007                   3/27/2007
Negotiations                              4/10/2007                   4/3/2007
BoardKVP approval                         5/22/2007
Planneddate ofeffectiveness               8/29/2007
Planneddate of mid-termreview             913012008
Plannedclosingdate                        12/31/2009

Key institutions responsiblefor preparationofthe project:
          -
          -  inGovernment :MinistryofHealthandFamily Planning, CRESAN
             Donor partners included:African Development Bank, AFD,EU, FrenchCooperation,
             JICA, UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, WHO

Bankstaffand consultantswho worked onthe project included:

Name                             Title                                         Unit
MukeshChawla                     LeadEconomist                                 AFTH3
MaryanneSharp                    Sr. OperationsOfficer                         AFTH3
MontserratMeiro-Lorenzo          Sr. Public HealthSpecialist                   AFTH3
Anne-ClaireHaye                  Consultant                                    AFTH3
MariaEugeniaBonilla-Chacin       Sr. Economist                                 AFTH3
Stefan0Paternostro               LeadEconomist                                 AFTH3
GervaisRakotoarimanana           Sr. FinancialManagementSpecialist             AFTFM
SylvainRambeloson                Sr. ProcurementSpecialist                     AFTPC
GillesVeuillot                   Sr. Counsel                                   LEGAF
Wolfgang Chadab                  Sr. FinanceOfficer                            LOAG2
T. JeffreyRamin                  Sr. OperationsOfficer                         AFTQK
NorosoaAndrianaivo               ProgramAssistant                              AFTH3
HerinjaraMariaRanohatra          ProgramAssistant                              AFTH3
PabloGottret                     LeadEconomistHealth& PeerReviewer             HDNHE
PeyvandKhaleghian                Sr. Health Specialist& PeerReviewer           ECSHD
Julie McLaughlin                 LeadHealthSpecialist & PeerReviewer           AFTHl
Oscar Picazo                     Sr. Economist& Peer Reviewer                  AFTHl

Bankfunds expendedto date onproject preparation:
     1. Bank resources:       $60,000
     2. Trust funds:          --
     3. Total:                $60,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remaining coststo approval:                    $ 10,000
     2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:              $100,000




                                                 87

                            Annex 12: Documents in the Project File
                Madagascar Sustainable Health System Development Project

The following documents are available inthe project file:

A.      Project Documents

Project ConceptNote January 2007
ManueldeProcCdures, CRESAN2

Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, April 2007
Quality EnhancementReviewReport, March2007
Identification MissionAide Memoire, January 2007

B.      Health Sector Documents

Ministerede la SantC et duPlanningFamilial. 2005.     ((ComptesNationaux de la SantC 2003D.
Madagascar.

Ministerede la SantC et duPlanningFamilial. 2005. Cadre dCpenses amoyenterme dusecteur
santC 2006-2008. Projet de note technique de prCsentation D. Madagascar.

InstitutNationalde la Statistique (INSTAT) et ORC Macro. 2005. EnquQteDCmographiqueet de
SantC de Madagascar2003-2004. Calberton, Maryland, USA :INSTAT et ORC Macro.

InstitutNational de la Statistique (INSTAT) et ORC Macro. 2005. EnquQteDCmographiqueet de
SantC de Madagascar, editions of 1993 and 1997. Calberton, Maryland, USA :INSTAT et ORC
Macro.

InstitutNational de la Statistique, Directiondes Statistiquesdes Menages. RCpubliquede
Madagascar.EnquetePCriodique aupres des mCnages, Rapport Principal. Editions de 2002,2003,
2004,2005,2006.

Elaboration duplande dCveloppement des ressourceshumaines pour le secteur de la santC a
Madagascar, rapport prdliminaire. Carl-Ardy Dubois, Suzanne Boivin, LucienAlbert. Unit6de
santC internationale, Universite de MontrCal. M a i 2006.

Public Expenditures review, health sector chapter. The World Bank, February 2007

Poverty and Social Impact Analysis; Healthcare andthe Poor. Republic ofMadagascar. The
World Bank. June, 2006.

Rapport fonds d'equite au CHD I1de Marovoay. GTZ. Avril2004.

Feuillede route sur les fonds d'CquitC hospitaliers, Madagascar.MathieuNoirhomme. Institut de
MCdecine Tropicale, Anvers. 2005.


                                                88

Health SectorNote, Madagascar. The World Bank. May 2005.

Annuaire des statistiques de santC, INSTAT, 2003-2004-2005-2006

Carte sanitaire de Madagascar, MinsanPF. 2000.

EnquCteefficience et CquitCdes Formations Sanitaires, EEFS 1(2003)

EnquCteefficience et CquitC des FS2005, EEFS2, (draft 2006)

MICS 2000

PCIME communautaire a Madagascar (document de bonne pratique, UNICEF, 2005

Rapport de l'expertise de la fonctionnalitd des CHD, CRESANMinsanPF,janvier 2004

Rapportstechniques des phases 1et 2 d'appui iila mise en oeuvre des plans de diveloppement
des districts sanitaires. 2004.

Services d'Cducation et de santC iiMadagascar :l'utilisation et les ddtenninants de la Demande,
P.Glick, J. Razafindravona,juin2000

The potential of community basedinsurance towards health finance inMadagascar, article, B.
Minten,M.Over, M.Razakamanantsoa,May 2006.

Etudesur le secteur pharmaceutique, Tahina Andrianjafy, 2004

C.     PolicyDocuments

Politique Nationale de SantC Cjuin2005)
Feuillede route pour la reduction de laMortalitC Maternelle a Madagascar, 2005-2015
Madagascar, chaine du froid 2004-2013
Plan de viabilitC financi2re duprogramme elargi de vaccination
Plan StratCgiqueNational ISTNIHISIDA, revision 2007-2011
Politique Nationale contre laBilharziose
Politique Nationale contre le Paludisme (2005)
Politique Nationale de contractualisation dans le secteur de la SantC iiMadagascar(2004)
Politique nationale de gestion des dCchets mCdicaux (SAGS 2005)
Politique Nationale de SantC de 1'Enfant (2005)
Politique Nationale Nutrition (2004)
Proposition Malaria aux rounds 1-2-3-4-5-6 duFonds Mondial
Proposition Tuberculose aux rounds 1-2-3-4-5-6 duFonds Mondial
Proposition VIH aux rounds 1-2-3-4-5-6 duFonds Mondial




                                                89

                                     Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                       MadagascarSustainableHealthSystemDevelopmentProject

                                                                                                          Difference   between
                                                                                                          expected and actual
                                                      Original Amount inUS$Millions                       disbursements

ProjectID FY   Purpose                                BRD       IDA      SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
PO95240  2007  MG-Pwr/Wtr Sect. RecoveryandRestruct.     0.00     10.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   10.06     0.00       0.00
PO74086  2007  MG-Irrigation & WatershedProject(FY07)    0.00    30.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   30.39     0.54       0.00
PO90615   2006 MG-MultiSec STI/HIV/AIDS 2 (FY06)         0.00    30.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   28.21      8.42      0.00
PO83351  2006  IntegGrowthPoles                          0.00    129.80    0.00      0.00   0.00  105.17     5.25       0.00
PO74235   2004 MG-Env Prgm 3 (FY04)                      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   23.46     6.22       0.00
PO74236   2004 MG-GEF EnvPrgm3 (FY04)                    0.00     0.00     0.00      9.00   0.00    5.27     4.67       0.00
PO74448   2004 MG-Gov & Inst Dev TAL (FY04)              0.00    30.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   11.36      1.96      0.00
PO82806   2004 MG-Transp InfrastrInvestPrj (FY04)        0.00    150.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   85.25    55.09      33.80
PO76245   2003 MG-Mineral Res Gov SIL (FY03)             0.00    32.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    9.06    -4.67       0.00
PO73689   2003 MG-Rural Transp APL 2 (FY03)              0.00    80.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   34.61     3.78      -6.31
PO72160   2002 MG-Priv Sec Dev 2 (FY02)                  0.00    23.80     0.00      0.00   0.00    7.40     3.13      -1.46
PO72987   2002 MG-MultiSec STI/HIV/AIDS Prev APL         0.00    20.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    2.95     0.07       0.00
               (FY02)
PO55166   2001 MG-ComDev Fund SIL (FYO1)                 0.00    110.00    0.00      0.00   0.00   26.99   -59.28      -4.28
PO51922   2001 MG-Rural Dev Supt SIL (FYOl)              0.00    89.05     0.00      0.00   0.00   21.57     3.82      -1.42
PO51741   2000 MG-Health Sec PrgmSupt 2 (FYOO)           0.00    40.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    3.98   -15.02       1.77
PO52186   1999 MG-Microfinance(FY99)                     0.00     16.40    0.00      0.00   0.00    1.02     0.33       0.53
PO01568   1998 MG-CommunityNutrition2 (FY98)             0.00    27.60     0.00      0.00   0.00   11.20    -9.68       0.00
               Total:                                    0.00    818.65    0.00      9.00   0.00  417.95     4.63      22.63




                                                               90

                                            MADAGASCAR
                                          STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                       HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                          InMillions ofU S Dollars


                                      Committed                           Disbursed
                                      IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval Company                   Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic.    Loan     Equity  Quasi     Partic.
1997        AEF GHM                   0.46       0.00     0.00    0.00      0.46     0.00    0.00      0.00
1995        AEF Karibotel             0.19       0.00     0.00    0.00      0.19     0.00    0.00      0.00
            BFV-SocGen                6.37       0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00
1991        BNI                       0.00       2.09     0.00    0.00      0.00     2.09    0.00      0.00
2005        BNI                       6.37       0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00
2000        BOA-M                     0.00       0.82     0.72    0.00      0.00     0.82    0.72      0.00
2004        BPMadagascar              0.00       3.51     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00
            CREDIT LYONNAIS1          6.37       0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00
            Totalportfolio:            19.76     6.42     0.72    0.00      0.65     2.91    0.72      0.00




                                                     Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval      Company                             Loan          Equity         Quasi       Partic.
2001             Besalampy                           0.02             0.00          0.00         0.00
2006             IDA-IFC PCG                         0.01             0.00          0.00         0.00
                 Total pendingcommitment:               0.03          0.00          0.00         0.00




                                                     91

                                                    Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
 Madagascar at a glance                                                                                                                     2/12/07

                                                                                      sub-
Key Development Indicators                                                        Saharan         LOW
                                                                 Madagascar          Africa    income           Age distribution, 2005
(2005)                                                                                                                     Male               Female
Population, mid-year(millions)                                          18.8           741       2,353
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                                                                                 70-74
                                                                         587        24,265     29,265
Populationgrowth (%)                                                     2.7           2.1         1.8         60-84

Urbanpopulation(W of total population)                                    27            35         30          50-54
                                                                                                               4044

GNI (Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                                          5.4           552       1,364         30-34

GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                       290           745         580         20-24
GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                     880         1,981       2,486         10-14
                                                                                                                 0-4
GDP growth(%)                                                            4.6           5.3         7.5              20       10        0      10      20
GDP per capita growth (56)                                                1.8          3.1         5.6                             percent

(most recent estimate, 200&2005)

Povertyheadwunt ratio at $1 a day (PPP, %)                                61            44
Povertyheadcountratio at $2 a day (PPP, %)                                85            75                     Under4 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                           56            46         59
Infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                                    76           100         80          200 1

Child malnutrition(% of children under 5)                                 42            29         39
                                                                                                               150
Adult literacy, male (56 of ages 15 and older)                            77                       73
Adult literacy, female (% of ages 15and older)                            65                       50          100
Grosspnmaryenrollment, male (% of age group)                             136            99         110
Gross primaryenrollment,female (56 of age group)                         131            87         99           50


Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                       46            56         75            0
Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)                  32            37         38                    1990   1995    2000  2004


                                                                                                                   UMadagascar     HSubSaharanAhica

Net Aid Flows                                              1980        1990          2000        2005 '

(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                     230         398           322       1,236         Zrowth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3 donors (in2004):
  France                                                      54         143            48        485
  Italy                                                         0          6             1         43            T
  UnitedStates                                                                                                 m
                                                              10          22            32         41

Aid (% of GNI)                                                5.7       13.5           8.5       28.8
Aid per capita (US$)                                          25          33            20         68

Long-Term Economlc Trends

Consumer prices (annual % change)                           18.2        11.8                                        90         95           00         O!
                                                                                      10.7        18.4
GDP implicitdeflator (annual Oh change)                     15.0        11.5           7.2        18.4             --O-GDP          -GDP      percapita
Exchangerate (annual average, local per US$)               42.3        298.8       1,353.5     2,003.0
Terms of trade index (2000= 100)                                          79           100         72
                                                                                                                1980-90 1990-2000          2000-05
                                                                                                                       (averageannual growth %)
Population,mid-year(millions)                                 9.1       12.0          16.2        18.6                 2.8          3.0         2.8
GDP (US$ millions)                                        4,042        3,081         3,878      5,041                  1.1          2.0        2.0
                                                                         (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                30.1         28.6          29.2       28.1                 2.5           1.8         1.7
Industry                                                    16.1        12.8          14.2       15.5                 0.9          2.4          1.o
  Manufacturing                                                         11.2          12.2       14.0                 2.1          2.0          1.o
services                                                   53.9         58.6          56.6       56.4                 0.3          2.3          1.6
Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                      89.3         86.4          83.2       82.7                 -0.7         2.2         2.8
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure                   12.1         8.0           9.0         8.4                0.5          0.0         4.0
Gross capitalformation                                      15.0        17.0          15.0       22.5                 4.9          3.3        12.1

Exportsof goods and sewices                                 13.3        16.6          30.7       26.5                -0.8          3.8         3.7
Imports of goods and services                              29.7         28.0         38.0        40.1                -5.7          4.1         8.7
Gross savings                                               -2.4         9.2           9.4       12.1


Note:Figures in italics are for years other than those Specified. 2005 data are preliminaryestimates.,,indicatesdata ere not available.
a. Aid data ere for 2004.

DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).




                                                                               92

                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                        P                                         Madagascar

Balanceof Payments and Trade                             2000       2005
                                                                                       IGovernance indicators, ZOO0 and 2005
(US$ millions)
Total merchandiseexports (fob)                            829        837
Total merchandiseimports (cif)                           1,097      1,652                Voice andaccountability
Nettrade in goods and services                           -283        688                         Politicalstability
Workers' remittancesand
  compensationof employees (receipts)                       11         16                      Regulatoryquality

Current account balance                                  -218        -524                             Rule of law
  as a % of GDP                                           -5.6      -10.4                    Control of corruption

Reserves,including gold                                   288        498

Central Government Flnance                                                                     m2005                 Country'spercentilerank(0-100)
                                                                                               02000                   kghw vduet mphl h U c r ntmngr

(% of GDP)
Revenue                                                   11.7       10.9
   Tax revenue                                            11.3       10.1
Expense                                                   15.9       21.3
                                                                                     Technology and Infrastructure                               2000     2004
Cash surplus/deficit                                      -3.5       -8.9
                                                                                     Paved roads (% of total)                                     11.6
Highestmarginaltax rate (36)                                                         Fixed line and mobile phone
   Individual                                               35         30              subscribers (per 1,000 people)                                7       19
   Corporate                                                35         30            Hightechnology exports
                                                                                       (% of manufactured exports)                                 1.0      0.8
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                     Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed                      4,691      3,465           Agncultural land (Uof land area)                                47      47
Total debt service                                         117         78            Forest area (% of land area, 2000 and 2005)                  22.4     22.1
HlPC and MDRl debt relief (expected;flow)                1,900                       Nationallyprotected areas (% of land area)                      ..     4.3

Total debt (% of GDP)                                    121.0       68.7            Freshwaterresources per capita (cu. meters)                     ,, 18,606
Total debt service (% of exports)                          9.7        5.7            Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internal resources)                  ..     4.4

Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)                      70         86           C02 emissions per capita (mt)                                 0.14    0.13
Portfolioequity (net inflows)                                 0
                                                                                    GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                       (2000PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)
   Composition of total external debt, 2005
                                                                                    Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)
                          pnvde         Shon-term, 75




                                                                                      (US$ miliions)

                                                                                      IBRD
                                                                                       Total debt outstanding and disbursed                          0
                                                                                       Disbursements                                                 0
                                                                                       Principal repayments                                          0
                                                                                       Interestpayments                                              0        ----
   US$ millions                                                                       IDA
                                                                                       Total debt outstanding and disbursed                      1.378    2,298
                                                                                       Disbursements                                                94     221
Private Sector Development                               2000       2006               Total debt service                                           27       29

Time requiredto start a business (days)                       --
                                                              -       21              IFC (fiscaiyear)
Cost to start a business (% of GNi per capita)                       35.0              Total disbursed and Outstandingportfolio                      8        6
Time requiredto register property (days)                              134               of which IFC own account                                     8        6
                                                                                       Disbursementsfor IFC own account                              I        0
Ranked as a major constraint to business                                               Portfolio sales, prepaymentsand
   (% of managerssurveyed who agreed)                                                   repayments for IFC own account                               2        1
     Cost of financing                                              66.9
     Macroeconomicinstability                                 ....  64.4              MlGA
                                                                                       Gross exposure                                                1        1
Stock market capitalization (56 of GDP)                                                                                                              0        0
Bank branches(per 100,000people)                              ..      0.7


Note: Figuresin italics are for years other than those specified. 2005data are preliminaryestimates                                                     2/12/07
.. indicatesdata are not available. -indicates observationis not applicable.

DevelopmentEconomics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                                    93

Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                       Madagascar


With selected targetsto achieve between 7990 and 2075
(esbmateclosest to dateshown, +/- 2years)


Goal 1:halve the rates for $1 a day poverty and malnutrition                                        1990       1995           2000        2004
 Povertyheadcountrabo at $1 a day(PPP, % of populahon)                                                         46 3           61 0
 Povertyheadcountratio af nabonalpovertyline(% of population)                                                  73 3           69 7         68 7
 Share of incomeor consumpttonto the poorestqunitile(%)                                                                        4 9
 Prevalenceof mainutntion(% of children under5)                                                      41          34                          42

Goal 2: ensure that chlldren are able to complete primaryschooling
 Pnmaivschoolenrollment(net %)  . . .                                                                64                         65           89
  Primarycompletionrate (% of relevantage group)                                                     35          28             36           47
  Secondaryschoolenrollment(gross,%)                                                                 17                         14
 Youth literacyrate (% of peopleages 1524)                                                                                                   70



  Ratioof girls to boys in pnmaryand secondalyeducation (%)                                          98                         97
 Women employedin the nonagnculturaisector(% of nonagnculturalemployment)                            24
  Proportionof seats held bywomenin natlonalparliament(%)                                             7           4              8            7

Goal 4: reduce under-5 mortalitybytwo-thirds
  Under4 mortalityrate (per 1,000)                                                                  163         159                          94
  Infant mortalityrate(per 1,000live births)                                                         93         96                           58
  Measles immunizatlon(proportionof one-year olds immunized.%)                                       47          55             56           59

Goal 5: reducr maternal mortality bythree-fourths
  Maternalmorta~tyratio(modeed estimate,per 100,000lwe oirtns)                                      660        488                         469
  BiRhsattendedby skiilea healthstaff (% of total)                                                   57         47              46           51

Goal 6: halt and begin to reversethe spread of HlVlAlDSand other major diseases
  Prevalenceof HiV (% of populationages 1549)                                                                                              0 5
  Contraceptive prevalence(% of women ages 1549)                                                     17          19              19          27
  inudence of tuberculosis(per 100,000people)                                                        192                                   218
  Tuberculosiscases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                      51             70           74

Goal 7: halve the proportlon of people without sustainableaccess to basic needs
  Access to an improvedwater source (96 of population)                                               40                                      46
  Access to improvedsanitationfacilibes(% of population)                                              14                                     32
  Forest area (% of total land area)                                                                23 5                      22 4        22 1
  Nationallyprotectedareas (% of total land area)                                                                                           4 3
  C02 emissions(metnctons percapita)                                                                 0 1        0 1            0 1         0 1
  GDP perunitof energy use(constant2000 PPP $per kg of oil equivalent)

Goal 8: develop a global partnershipfor development
  Fixedlineand mobilephone subscribers (per 1,000people)                                               3          3              7           19
  lntemetusers(per 1,000people)                                                                        0          0              2            5
  Personalcomputers(per 1,000people)                                                                              1              2            5
  Youth unemployment(% of total laborforce ages 15-24)
  IEducatlon indicator??(X)                     I      leasles immunization (X of l-yearolds)           CT indicators (per 1,000 people)



                                                        75
                                                                                                         20
                                                                                                         301                   n
                                                        M

                                                                                                         10
                                                        25


                                                         0                                               0
                                                                 1990    l B s 5  2000    20M                 2wo         2w2        2w4
        +Primarynetenrollmentratio
        -a-    Ratio of girlsto bays in pnmary&               Madagascar       OSub-Saharan Ahca               0Fixed+ mbile subsabers
                                                                                                                 Internetusers




Note: Figuresin italicsare for years otherthanthose specified...indicatesdata   are not available.                                      2112/07

DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group (DECDG)




                                                                                   94

             Annex 15: M a p IBRD 33439
Madagascar Sustainable Health System Development Project




                          95


                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33439
                                                                 45E                                                                                                              50E




                                                                                                                                                   Antsiranana


                             MADAGASCAR                                      Mayotte
                                                                             (France)

                                                                                                                                                              Ambilobe
                                                                                                                                                                                      Vohimarina
                                                                                                                                       Ambanja      ANTSIRANANA
                                                                                                                                               Maromokotro
                                                                                                                                                  (2,876 m)
                                                                                l                                                                      Massif                            Sambava

                                                                   n   n    e                                                                      Tsaratanana

                                                            h  a                                                                                         Bealanana
                                                                                                                            Antsohihy                                          Andapa      Antalaha
15S                                                  C                                                                                                                                                               15S



                                        q   u   e                                                                                           Sofia     Befandriana                Maroantsetra


                                   b  i                                          Mahajanga

                                                                                                                                                          Mandritsara
                                m                                                                                                  Mampikony
                                                                   Soalala                                                                                                  vo     Mananara
                       o  z    a
                                                                                                                            MahajambaBemarivo                              a
                   M                                                                                                                                                      g
                                            Besalampy          B o n g o l a v aM A H A J A N G A                                                                        n
                                                                                                                                                                        A
                                                                                           Maevatanana
                                                            of
                                                      Clif fManambaho                                              Betsiboka                          Andilamena       f       Soanierana-Ivongo

                                                                                                                                                                      o
                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                               Kandreho                                                         Lake                         Fenoarivo-Atsinanana
                                                                                                            Andriamena                      Alaotra


                                                                                                                                                 Vohidiala ASIN   liff
                                                                                                                                                                 C
                                     Maintirano                                    Mahavavy              Ankazobe                                         M
                                                                                                                                                         A             Toamasina
                                                               Ambaravaranala          ANTANANARIVO
                                               Antsalova                                             ANTANANARIVO                                      TO
                                                                                                                                      Moramanga
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I N D I A N
                                                                                    Soavinandriana           Tsiafajovona
                                                                                                               (2,642 m)
                                                                                                                                                             Vatomandry
                                                               Miandrivazo                                      a                                                                                O C E A N
                                        Belo Tsiribihina                                                                   Antanifotsy
                                                              Tsiribihina                                                                      Mangoro    Mahanoro
20S                                                                                                     AnkaratAntsirabe                                                                                             20S
                                        Morondava             Malaimbandy                             Mania
                                                                                           Ambatofinan-
                                                                                                    drahana
                                                                                                                         Ambositra                   Varika


                                                      Mandabe                                                         Ambohimahasoa


                                             Manja                                                 Fianarantsoa                                   Mananjary
                                                                                                                                                                               0     40     80  120  160 200 Kilometers
                                                            Beroroha
                             Morombe
                                                     Mangoky                      F I A N A R A N T S O A
                                                                                                                                                                               0        40         80   120 Miles

                                                                                                                                            Manakara
                                                            Ankazoabo                Ihosy                       Pic Boby
                                                                                                                 (2,658 m)                                                         50E
                                          T O L I A R A

                                          Fiherechana  Sakaraha                                                 Mananara               Farafangana                      MADAGASCAR
                                 Toliara                                         Betroka
                                                            Onilahy                                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                             Betioky
                                                                                                       Midongy-
                                                                                                         Atsimo                                                                      PROVINCE (FARITANY) CAPITALS
                                                                                             Tsivory                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                       Berakete
This map was produced by
the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                                           RIVERS
World Bank. The boundaries,
colors, denominations and                                     Ampanihy                      Mandrave                                                                                 MAIN ROADS
any other information shown                                                      PlateAmboasary
                                                                                           au
on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
the part of The World Bank                                   randra
                                                                  Androy                                                                            25S
Group, any judgment on the             Androka                                                                    Tolanaro
                                                                           Ambovombe
legal status of any territory,                          MenaBeloha                                                                                                                   PROVINCE (FARITANY) BOUNDARIES
or any endorsement or
a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h                                                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
boundaries.
                                                                 45E

                                                                                                                                                                                                           NOVEMBER 2004

