                            Document of
                         The World Bank




                                              Report No: ICR00001497



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-43050 TF-58152)

                              ON A

                             CREDIT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR6.7 MILLION
                    (US$ 10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                             TO THE

                    REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                              FOR A

         SUSTAINABLE HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                           June 28, 2010




AFTHE
AFCS1
Africa Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            (Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2010)
                               Currency Unit = Ariary
                                    1.927 Ar = USD1
                               USD 1.55663 = SDR 1

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1  ­  December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD      Agence Française de Dévéloppement    MDG  Millennium Development Goals
AfDB     African Development Bank             MOH  Ministry of Health, Family Planning
                                                   and Social Protection
AIDS     Acquired Immuno Deficiency           MMR  Maternal Mortality Rate
         Syndrome
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy          MOU  Memorandum of Understanding
CRESAN   Second Health Sector Support Project MWMP Medical Waste Management Plan
II
CSR      Country Status Report                   OP/BP        Operational Policy/Business Policy
DHS      Demographic and Health Survey           NHA          National Health Accounts
EU       European Union                          NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
FM       Financial Management                    NTD          Neglected Tropical Diseases
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                  PAD          Project Appraisal Document
GF       Global Fund to Fight AIDS,              PDO          Project Development Objective
         Tuberculosis and Malaria
HMIS     Health Management Information           PDSS         National Health Sector Development
         System                                               Plan
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus            PCU          Project Coordination Unit
ICR      Implementation Completion Report        RAM          Regional Accounting Manager
IDA      International Development Association   PRMP         Person Responsible for Public
                                                              Procurement
IEG      Independent Evaluation Group            SHSDP        Sustainable Health System
                                                              Development Project
IHP+     International Health Partnership and    SIL          Specific Investment Loan
         related initiatives
ISR      Implementation Status Report            STI          Sexually Transmitted Infections
JAR      Joint Annual Review                     SWAp         Sector Wide Approach
JICA     Japanese International Cooperation      TTL          Task Team Leader
         Agency
JHSSP    Joint Health Sector Support Project     UNDP         United Nations Development
                                                              Programme
KfW      Kredit Anstalt fur Wiederaufbau         UNFPA        United Nations Fund for Population
                                                              Activities
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation               UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
MAP      Madagascar Action Plan



                                Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                              Country Director: Ruth Kagia
                               Sector Manager: Eva Jarawan
                          Project Team Leader: Maryanne Sharp
                             ICR Team Leader: Jumana Qamruddin
                                       MADAGASCAR
                         Sustainable Health System Development Project


                                                     CONTENTS




A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis..................................................................ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs...................................................vi
H. Restructuring (if any).........................................................................vi
I. Disbursement Profile..........................................................................vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................... 24
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................. 25
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 34
Annex 6. Implementation Summary ............................................................................. 36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Madagascar Sustainable
Country:                Madagascar               Project Name:             Health System
                                                                           Development Project
Project ID:             P103606                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-43050,TF-58152
ICR Date:               06/26/2010               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           MADAGASCAR
Original Total
                        XDR 6.7M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 6.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.7M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Project Coordination Unit of SHSDP
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/12/2007      Effectiveness:             08/31/2007        08/31/2007
Appraisal:            03/27/2007      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/22/2007      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2009        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     20                  20
Health                                                                62                  62
Other social services                                                 7                      7
Sub-national government administration                                11                  11


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                          23                  10
Health system performance                                             22                  42
Other communicable diseases                                           22                  18
Population and reproductive health                                    22                  20
Social safety nets                                                    11                  10

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Hartwig Schafer
Country Director:          Ruth Kagia                           Ritva S. Reinikka
Sector Manager:            Eva Jarawan                          Laura Frigenti
Project Team Leader:       Maryanne Sharp                       Mukesh Chawla
ICR Team Leader:           Jumana N. Qamruddin
ICR Primary Author:        Jumana N. Qamruddin


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective of Madagascar SHSDP is to contribute to the
strengthening of the health system and enhance the institutional capacity of the Ministry


                                               ii
of Health to improve the access and utilization of health services, especially in rural and
remote areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)          Values          Target Years
                  People with access to a basic package of health, nutrition, or population services
Indicator 1 :     (Number)

Value
quantitative or   7,680,000 (PAD)            11,520,00 (MOH)                    11,077,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2005                 06/01/2007                         12/31/2008
Comments
                  This is an IDA retrofitted indicator and does not directly related to project
(incl. %
                  objectives. There is not enough information on how "basic package" is defined.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Children immunized
Value
quantitative or   83,510 (MOH)                                                  358,592 (MOH)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2005                                                    12/31/2008
Comments
                  This is an IDA retrofitted indicator. Percentage increase would have been more
(incl. %
                  relevant.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Health sector budget execution rate (recurrent and investment)
Value
quantitative or   65% (MOH)                  100% (PAD)                         86% (MOH)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2005                 06/01/2007                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          The original target value was set for 2011.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Two Joint Health Sector Reviews per year are held with all development partners
Value                                                                           1(2007)
quantitative or   N/A                         Two/year (PAD)                    2(2008)
Qualitative)                                                                    0(2009)
Date achieved     06/01/2007                  06/01/2007                        12/31/2009
Comments          Three joint health sector reviews were held by the end of the project (September
(incl. %          2007, May 2008, and December 2008). No review was held in 2009 due to the
achievement)      political crisis.
Indicator 5 :     Health Sector MTEF 2009-2012 is updated and validated


                                                  iii
Value
                                                                           Validated MTEF
quantitative or N/A
                                                                           available (MOH)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2007                                                   12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                          Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                             Revised
                                            approval                            Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                           documents)                           Target Years
                Number of primary and secondary health care facilities in line with technical
Indicator 1 :
                norms of Ministry
Value
(quantitative   N/A                         47 (PAD)                           48 (MOH)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2007                    06/01/2007                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of packages of drugs and consumables distributed to primary and
Indicator 2 :
                secondary health facilities
Value
(quantitative   N/A                         25 (PAD)                           25 (MOH)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2007                    06/01/2007                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of safe delivery kits provided free of charge to primary health centers
Value
(quantitative   N/A                         100,000 (PAD)                      393,833 (MOH)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2007                    06/01/2007                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of maternal kits distributed
Value
(quantitative                               10,000 (PAD)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                               06/01/2007
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator was integrated with the safe delivery kits indicator above.
achievement)



                                              iv
Indicator 5 : Percentage of completed integrated workplans submitted
Value
(quantitative                           100% (PAD)                           100% (MOH)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           06/01/2007                           12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Number of cesarean delivery kits provided
Value
(quantitative                           870 (MOH)                            1,267 (MOH)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           06/01/2007                           12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of health personnel trained in the provision of delivery of quality
Indicator 7 :
                services
Value
(quantitative                                                                10,355 (MOH)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Number of contraceptives distributed
Value
(quantitative                                                                33,000 (MOH)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Number of TB cases treated
Value
(quantitative                                                                3,103 (MOH)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    12/04/2007       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.65
  2    03/26/2008       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     4.11
  3    08/31/2008       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     9.16
  4    02/26/2009       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   10.28
  5    06/15/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            10.28
                         Moderately
  6    11/11/2009                                  Moderately Satisfactory            10.28
                       Unsatisfactory
  7    12/28/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            10.28


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1      Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of appraisal in early 2007, Madagascar had made good progress since
the political and economic crisis of 2002. Immunization rates had improved, the infant
and child mortality rates had declined significantly over the last decade and chronic
malnutrition had decreased. Similarly, progress had been made on reducing poverty,
which declined to 70 percent from its peak level of 80 percent at the time of the 2002
crisis.

2.       Despite progress in some areas, the rates of infectious diseases were still very
high and were disproportionately affecting the poor. The tuberculosis (TB) prevalence
rate1 had increased from 359 to 417 by 2007, and incidence rate2 reached 251 from 217.
The maternal mortality ratio3 (MMR) had decreased only slightly from 488 in 1997 to
469 in 2003. Some estimates suggest that there was a slight increase to 5104 in 2005.
This stagnation and possible worsening was in part attributable to lack of access to skilled
staff at delivery and a poorly functional referral system that did not comprise all elements
of emergency obstetric care. Given that a large percentage of women did not give birth in
a health center, post-natal care interventions were all the more critical for the health of
the newborn and the mother yet referral and emergency services were generally difficult
for women to access, particularly in rural areas, further amplifying some of these
differences.

3.      In addition, there were large income inequalities in access and utilization of health
services across the country. The inequality in the supply of health services was closely
linked to the unequal distribution of human resources as well as varying levels of training
and competence of the medical staff. A few hospitals in major cities had an inordinately
high of number doctors and specialists, while there were huge needs for specialized staff
in areas such as gynecology, surgery and pediatrics at the regional level. Similarly, the
distribution of doctors across rural and urban areas showed serious imbalances. While
health centers in urban areas had, on average, more personnel than required by the
national standard, health centers in rural areas had much less staff 5 . This issue was
highlighted in the National Health Sector Development Plan (PDSS) as a key bottleneck
in access to and delivery of health services, especially in rural and remote areas.

4.     Health policy issues featured prominently in the country's development plans as
evident in its Madagascar Action Plan (MAP), 2007-2011. The Ministry of Health,
Family Planning and Social Protection (henceforth: MOH) formulated a comprehensive


1
  (per 100,000 population)
2
  (per 100,000 population)
3
  (per 100,000 live births)
4
  UNICEF/WHO
5
  For example, 46 percent of all doctors working in the public sector in Madagascar were located in the former province
Antananarivo, serving only 28 percent of the population of the country.


                                                          1
PDSS identifying a number of key bottlenecks to increased access and utilization of
health services and improvement in health indicators. Despite this prioritization in
policy, the country was spending very little on health at about US$12 per capita 6 ,
corresponding to about 3.5 percent of GDP. These numbers were well below the US$30
to US$40 per person per year recommended by the WHO 7 to finance a package of
essential services. At these levels of expenditures, the country would not be able to
achieve the health related Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). At the time, it was
estimated that an additional US$5.40 per capita per year would be needed for three years
to achieve a 41 percent reduction in child mortality and a 35 percent reduction in neonatal
and maternal mortality8 required to sustain progress in achieving these MDGs.

5.      External assistance was the main source of financing in the sector, representing
about 37 percent9 of total spending on health, with a number of development partners10
working in the country. This funding was extremely fragmented because partners were
supporting the Government through parallel financing streams to address the
dysfunctions and bottlenecks within the health care system. In addition, the high volatility
and unpredictability of these funds and the complexity of managing projects with
different procurement and monitoring mechanisms made budget planning and execution
in the Ministry difficult. Moreover, a number of health projects that had been active in
the country since the 1990s were coming to an end and the Government was unlikely to
sustain the levels of expenditures on health without additional financial aid from the
donor community.

6.      The rationale for continuing11 Bank assistance was strong at the time of appraisal.
It was seen as essential for sustained and gradually enhanced IDA financing as well as
being important for leveraging other donor financing for the health sector in Madagascar.
This was in line with IDA-14 goals on leveraging and partnerships. The World Bank had
been supporting the health sector in Madagascar as a lead donor through a number of
health-specific and multi-sectoral projects in the past decade. It was also a key agency in
a consortium12 that was being created to support the health sector via the sector-wide
approach. The Sustainable Health System Development Project (SHSDP) represented the
next stage with respect to the World Bank and other development partners' support for
the health sector. It was consistent with the Bank's strategy for long term engagement in


6
  National Health Accounts (NHA) 2003
7
  Commission for Health and Macroeconomics, WHO, 2002
8
  MOH, with the support of UNICEF.2005
9
  NHA,2003
10
   African Development Bank (AfDB), Agence Française de Dévéloppement (AFD), European Union (EU), Japanese
International Cooperation Agency (JICA), United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Fund for
Population Activities (UNFPA), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) and World Health Organization (WHO)
11
   The World Bank has been supporting the health sector through a number of health-specific and multi-sectoral
projects since the 1990s. These included the Second Health Sector Support Project (CRESAN 2), which was approved
in November 1999 and closed in December 31, 2007. Other projects included the Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Project
(US$20 million, closing date: December 2007), Community Development Fund (US$176 million, closing date: June
2008), Second Community Nutrition Project (US$47.6 million, closing date: December 2009), and the ongoing Second
Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Project (US$30 million, closing date: December 2010).
12
   The consortium included the AfDB, AFD, the EU, the French Cooperation, JICA, UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, WHO,
and the World Bank.


                                                      2
the sector for supporting the Government's move toward a more harmonized and better
functioning health system that focused on results.

7.      The SHSDP was included in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and directly
supported the objectives under Pillar 2 which included "improving services to people"
and "achieving better outcomes in education and health." The project was consistent with
the CAS principles and approach of alignment with the government program as outlined
in the MAP and PDSS, harmonization and coordination with other donors, and
preparation of a sector-wide approach (SWAp) to the health sector aimed at bettering
health outcomes.

1.2   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

8.      The PDO of the SHSDP is to contribute to the strengthening of the health system
and enhance the institutional capacity of MOH to improve the access and utilization of
health services, especially in rural and remote areas. The key indicators are listed above
in the datasheet.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

9.     The PDO and key indicators did not change.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

10.    The project was intended to benefit the entire population of Madagascar accessing
public health services. There was an added focus on the population in rural areas which
was estimated to be about 73 percent of the population (13.6 million people).

1.5    Original Components (as approved)

11.     The total amount of financing was US$10 million implemented over 2.5 years and
the original components were as follows:

12.    Component 1: Strengthening Delivery of Health Services (US$5.3 million):
This component sought to strengthen health service delivery and quality of services at the
primary and first referral levels in districts through capacity building of districts to better
organize, manage and deliver health goods and services, and provision of goods and
services to strengthen health centers, including drugs, medical supplies and equipment.

13.     Component 2: Development and Management of Human Resources in the
Health Sector (US$0.9 million): The objective of this component was to improve human
resource management in the health sector with particular emphasis on rural areas. To this
end, this component financed the development of innovative mechanisms to provide
incentives to rural based personnel and promote enhanced performance of such
personnel. It also supported training of all health personnel on basic health service



                                              3
delivery, such as diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases, pregnancy and delivery
management, as well as health care-for children and new-born babies.

14.     Component 3: Innovations in Health Financing Management (US$0.6
million): This component sought to support creative resource mobilization and
strengthen health resource allocation, through the development of a variety of
mechanisms designed to mobilize additional health resources through programs such as
social insurance, and through improved management of existing private and public funds
for the health system.

15.    Component 4: Improving Demand and Utilization of Health Services
(US$1.05 million): This component endeavored to stimulate demand for quality health
services through community education and awareness campaigns, and developing
mechanisms for conditional cash transfers.

16.     Component 5: Institutional Strengthening (US$2.15 million): This component
supported a number of system development and institutional strengthening activities,
such as procurement and financial management and program oversight. In addition, the
component financed a number of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities, including
development of an M&E plan, support to the National Health Information System and
strengthening of Government's analytical capacity for better use and management of
data.

1.6      Revised Components

17.      Project components were not revised.

1.7      Other significant changes

18.     There were no significant changes in the implementation arrangements or funding
allocations during the life of the project.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.     Project Preparation. The SHSDP was prepared in the context of the World
Bank's commitment to supporting the Government of Madagascar in implementing its
long term strategy in the health sector. The project preparation phase was short but was a
collaborative process with both the Government and partners participating in project
development from the outset. The preparation of the project benefitted from:

         Implementation experience from previous operations. The SHSDP was the
         logical next stage with respect to the World Bank's support for the health sector.
         As the previous operation, the Second Health Sector Support project (CRESAN
         II), benefitted from the implementation experiences of the Bank supported
         CRESAN I and other donor programs, so did SHSDP benefit from the


                                             4
          implementation experience and lessons learned 13 from CRESAN II as well as
          other programs in the health sector.

          Supporting the National Health Sector Development Plan through a
          participatory approach. The project preparation process 14 involved active
          collaboration between the Bank, the MOH, and development partners. The
          operation promoted a harmonized approach in the sector by supporting the
          achievement of key outcomes and indicators as outlined in the health sector
          strategy formulated by the MOH in the PDSS. The objectives of the project
          supported the achievement of key interventions highlighted in MAP 15 . This
          ensured that there was Government ownership and partner buy-in from the start.

20.      Project Design. From the outset, the SHSDP was envisioned to be an essential
step 16 in strengthening the health sector for better service delivery by focusing on
addressing key systems and institutional capacity issues such as fragmentation of support
from donors and budget planning and execution. This was coupled with supporting
health interventions and testing innovative solutions to address health challenges that
were disproportionately affecting the poor in more rural and remote areas of the country.
It was envisioned that the gains made under the SHSDP would be supported and
furthered through subsequently larger investments, starting with a planned follow-on
Bank operation17 to help meet the objectives outlined in the country's MAP and PDSS.

21.     The initial modest investment of the SHSDP (US$10 million) and short timeline
(30 months) was appropriate as it allowed the Government to further ensure that the
principles of a more efficient and effective system were in place by increasing
harmonization and coordination in the health sector and enhancing the institutional
capacity of the MOH to more effectively deliver health services as a primary objective


13
   lessons: 1) The project was able to reach its goals despite all obstacles thanks to the flexibility of the project design
and implementation. 2) The decentralization of the activities financed by the project, and particularly the technical
assistance offered to the decentralized levels of the Ministry, allowed a smoother implementation of activities and the
achievement of the PDO. However, technical assistance to the central level was also needed to ensure a sustainable
development of the health system. 3) Close coordination with other partners under the leadership of the Government is
important for success. 4) To increase service utilization, it is important to make sure that all causes of non-utilization
are dealt with. This project only aimed at improving geographical access by trying to build new facilities. However, the
main cause of non-utilization of health services has always been their cost. 6) As the project changes, it is important to
formally revise the monitoring and evaluation framework to ensure that the project's progress is correctly monitored.
CRESAN II changed significantly across the years but the M&E framework did not, making it difficult to follow its
progress in achieving the PDO or to correct any problem in time.
14
    The project preparation period was four months long.
15
    The MAP ­ which sets very ambitious targets in the areas of maternal and child mortality, fertility rate, malaria,
tuberculosis, sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDS control, and reduction of malnutrition in children under the
age of five ­ is multi-sectoral in nature and recognizes the importance of system and institution strengthening.
16
    The World Bank's Independent Evaluation Group (which completed a country assistance evaluation in July 2006 of
IDA's involvement in Madagascar for 1995-2005) also recommended limiting the role of budget support until there
was a sustained improvement in collecting and managing public resources.
17
    The Project Appraisal Document and Aide Memoires outline the aim of this project in strengthening the sector for a
larger investment. The discussions and preparations for the follow-on project with partners and the Government began
during the first supervision mission for the SHSDP in September of 2007, right after the effectiveness of the project.
The follow-on project was fully prepared and negotiated by January 2009 for a total program cost of US$ 85 million.
The project was pulled from the Board due to the political crisis.


                                                             5
and secondly to prepare the sector to better manage and utilize more resources starting
with a planned larger investment. In the longer term, the activities under the SHSDP
were designed contribute to the Government's vision to implement a SWAp tied to
results in health. This two-step financing model (a smaller investment to resolve some
critical systems and institutional challenges and to implement key health interventions
followed by a larger investment) best responded to the country context at the time of
project preparation.

22.     The health systems activities were complemented by support to strengthen the
delivery of key health interventions and implementation of supply and demand side
activities aimed at increasing utilization of health services especially in rural and remote
areas. In this context, the human resource focus was appropriate18 as was the focus on
strengthening and/or upgrading facilities in rural and remote areas. The project design
supported the implementation of innovative approaches and key activities to boost
progress on pro-poor and potentially high impact interventions19 related to maternal and
child health and communicable diseases. In this respect, the project was ambitious and
aimed to do a lot with a relatively small amount of financing. There could have been a
potential benefit to narrowing the health intervention focus instead of including financing
for so many different activities.

23.     Design of Implementation Arrangements. The implementation arrangements for
the project were designed well and aimed to take advantage of capacities already built in
the sector while providing support key areas 20 that needed to be strengthened. The
arrangements also ensured that the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for SHSDP was
firmly embedded in the structure of the MOH and supported the overall objectives of the
sector while ensuring the implementation of the project (as described in more detail
below). The design of the implementation arrangements was also appreciated by other
partners and projects as evidenced by the fact that the PCU is currently managing Global
Fund and Bank HIV/AIDS resources.

24.      The implementation of the country's PDSS was overseen by the MOH, through
its relevant directorates and services. Decisions were made by a management team which
was responsible for closely monitoring project activities (including the tracking of
performance indicators, sector issues and health status/epidemic trends), donor
coordination, and making concrete recommendations of ways to improve overall program
and project implementation.

25.  Within this structure, responsibility for the SHSDP coordination rested with the
PCU and was essentially made up of staff from the project unit of CRESAN II21. The


18
   Addressing one of the key issues to equitable delivery of services in the country
19
   E.g. DOTs for tuberculosis, drugs for NTDs, family planning, and obstetric care
20
   Aspects of FM, budget planning and execution, and procurement
21
   This unit has performed its duties satisfactorily and acquired experience in managing IDA funded activities,
coordinating donors, NGOs, various MOH services and district health authorities. At appraisal, the PCU's current
capacity, daily working arrangements, procurement and financial management mechanisms and partnerships with other
MOH directorates and services were reviewed to ensure confirm capacity. Other donors have expressed interest in
using this PCU for the execution of their activities (e.g., AFD); thus the PCU will be staffed accordingly.


                                                       6
coordinator of the PCU reported to the Secretary General and the Minister of Health, and
participated in the MOH management team together with the other central directors, and
the senior staff of the health districts. The project staff benefitted from having an internal
controller to oversee all administrative and financial transactions; a highly qualified
accountant with at least one assistant; two procurement specialists; and a procurement
assistant. Implementation of project activities was the responsibility of key MOH
Directorates who collaborated closely with the decentralized health districts.

26.     Lending Instrument. The lending instrument, a Specific Investment Loan (SIL),
was appropriate to the project objectives as the financing was helping to ensure that the
sector was sufficiently prepared for implementing the larger operation.

27.     On the basis of the above, the design of the project was appropriate for achieving
project outcomes.

28.      Risks. There were a number of risks 22 outlined in the PAD with adequate
mitigation measures overall. However, potential risks associated with health system and
institutional strengthening activities as well as partnerships could have been better
elaborated. For example, the team did not identify the risk associated with donors
agreeing to move forward in a more harmonized and coordinated manner as a risk. Given
that this was one of the aims of the project, it would have been useful to have included it
in the table.

29.     The most significant risk to the project and related development outcomes was the
political crisis. This was an unforeseeable event and could not have been planned for at
the outset of the project. That said, the task team worked with partners and the MOH to
mitigate the potential negative effects of the crisis during implementation of the project
by playing a key role in ensuring that there was at least a small amount of financing
(through AFD) to carry on critical activities after project closing and in the absence of the
envisioned Bank financing.

2.2       Implementation

30.     The detailed implementation summary highlighting achievements and challenges
can be found in annex 6. Implementation can be divided into two distinct phases:

       Phase One: Pre-political Crisis (October 2007-January 2009)
      The project achieved a lot in a short period of time. The majority of project activities
      were completed within this phase with 96 percent of the credit being disbursed. There
      was positive progress toward the achievement of project indicators. Overall,



22
  The risks were: 1) Health personnel do not want to move to rural areas, 2) Project time is too short and resources too
limited to have a measurable impact, 3) Health service strengthening does not result in utilization of health services, 4)
Ministry moves away from agreed activities and redirects own budget resources away from agreed priorities, 5)
Demand for basic health services is stimulated but supply cannot respond, 6) Conditional cash transfers do not reach
the intended target population targeting issues, and 7) Risk of delays in the production of financial reports, and audit
may not be conducted in compliance with international auditing standards.


                                                            7
     implementation went smoothly with a very quick start-up after effectiveness23. The
     larger follow-on project, the Joint Health Sector Support Project (JHSSP) was
     prepared and negotiated with pooled financing from AFD. Madagascar was also
     successful in becoming a member country of the International Health Partnership and
     related initiatives (IHP+), another positive step towards the sector's eventual move to
     a SWAp.

      Phase Two: Political crisis (January 2009-December 2009)
     In January 2009, Madagascar suffered severe civil unrest. As result of the change in
     Government, the Bank portfolio was subject to OP/BP 7.30 Dealing with De Facto
     Governments as of March 17, 2009 whereby disbursements were stopped. Given that
     most of the project funds had been disbursed, only US$453,900 was unable to be
     disbursed. The balance of the special account had been fully committed and spent by
     the end of the project24.

31.     While there were some delays, the crisis did not have much impact on the
activities being implemented under the SHSDP and the project was able to achieve its
objectives with support of the resources in the special account.

32.      The crisis did, however, put the achievement of the project achievements at risk
and had a negative impact on the progress made in the health sector more broadly25. As a
result, and following management guidance on the need to downgrade the project ratings
of all projects in the portfolio given the situation, the PDO was downgraded to
Moderately Unsatisfactory in the Implementation Status Report (ISR) of November 2009
as a precautionary measure given the country situation at the time. This rating was
upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory in the final ISR in recognition of the project's strong
performance in mitigating the negative effects of the crisis on implementation. The
decision not to downgrade the IP from Moderately Satisfactory was appropriate given the
efforts of the project in completing all activities despite the political crisis and the lack of
financing.

33.    OP/BP 7.30 has continued to be applied across the portfolio as of the time of this
ICR. With regard to SHSDP, this presented unique challenges to implementation.
OP/BP 7.30 is not designed to be used for such a continuously long period of time and
there is no operational guidance on how to manage the portfolio under such


23
   Within the first two months, the first supervision mission was held along with a joint annual review (one
of the key indicators of the project). The work plan and procurement plan were approved and the first
deposit to the special account was requested.
24
   Focused on closing activities and necessary evaluations during the last six months of the project
25
   A key example was the decision by the new Government in June 2009 to replace the majority of the staff
in the health sector, including at the regional levels. Out of the 22 regional directors, only three remained.
This resulted in a loss of knowledge, institutional memory and capacity built over the years, given that most
of the staff had been implicated in more than one Bank-financed project.




                                                      8
circumstances. In this context, the Bank team managed to find practical solutions to
ensure that the project continued implementation. The PCU staff continued their work
with the same amount of efficiency and diligence despite delays in salaries and other
resources for administrative tasks. While the broader development outcomes were at risk
as described above, the project performed well despite the politically challenging
circumstances. Therefore, there is clear justification that the project should be rated as
Satisfactory26.

2.3       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34.    Design of the Results Framework: There were three dimensions to the
monitoring of the achievement of the PDO: i) monitoring of project indicators as defined
in the credit agreement; ii) monitoring of key additional output and process indicators
that were relevant to the PDO; and iii) monitoring of key sector indicators related to the
PDSS to which the project was contributing to but could not claim full attribution.

35.     The design of the Results Framework for the project was ambitious and very
complex in an attempt to link the system strengthening support by the project to the MAP
objectives to create an integrated framework to monitor and evaluate progress across
multiple dimensions. Within in this framework, a group of indicators were used to
monitor the performance of the SHSDP. While the complexity was necessary given that
the project was part of a longer term strategy for the health sector, it made the Results
Framework for this particular operation bulky. Moreover, while the process and output
indicators were clearly linked to the intermediate indicators27 in the Result Framework,
the link from the intermediate indicators to the high level outcome indicators could have
been illustrated more clearly.

36.    On the positive side, the Bank's results indicators for the project were clearly
outlined in a table and were restricted to output and process indicators which were
relevant to what the project was trying to achieve given its scope.

37.      During the August 2008 supervision mission, the ISR was revised to include core
common indicators for IDA 14 reporting. While this was a Bank-wide mandatory
initiative, the indicators for health were high level outcomes that were not directly related
to the objectives of the project. Although the task team monitored these indicators, a
better process should have been used to select those core indicators relative to the specific
objectives and activities of projects.

38.    The project financed training for the MOH on the Health Management
Information System (HMIS) and provided resources for the implementation of the DHS.
The support provided under the project for M&E was incremental given that these



26
   There is a difference between the ICR rating for the project and the ISR ratings. The ISR ratings review the last 6
months of a project whereas the ICR is reflecting on the entire project. In this regard, the project performed very well
before the political crisis.
27
   This project focused on achievement of output and intermediate outcome indicators.



                                                            9
aspects were sufficiently funded by other donors. This was appropriate to ensure that the
funding for M&E activities was complementary not duplicative.

39.     Implementation and utilization: M&E went smoothly during the life of the
project and was satisfactory overall. The PCU had one full-time M&E coordinator
supported by four technical specialists and an assistant. Given the many activities that
were being implemented, the capacity was appropriate and as a result, the PCU was able
to effectively monitor the project at central level. In addition:
 Activities under Component 5 on M&E were adequately implemented as highlighted
    in Implementation Summary in annex 6.
 There was also project funding set aside for evaluating the pilots under the project to
    learn what worked, what didn't, and why. This indicated that the pilots28 were
    regarded as a learning opportunity for finding innovative approaches for improving
    health outcomes that had the potential of being scaled-up. Two of the pilots were
    evaluated but one was unable to be evaluated due to the political crisis.
 In October 2008, there was a decision to amend the credit agreement to include
    indicators that more accurately reflected objectives of project. While this was a good
    decision given that the indicators selected for inclusion into the credit agreement did
    not capture the objectives of the project comprehensively, the amendment was not
    signed because of the political crisis.
 As a result of the crisis, the rating for M&E was appropriately downgraded to a
    Moderately Satisfactory because regular supervision missions were not possible by
    the PCU.

2.4         Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

A. Fiduciary

40.         There were no significant issues with the fiduciary aspects of the project.

41.     Financial Management (FM). During project preparation, the FM assessment of
the previous health project (CRESAN II) and related operating units of the MOH
satisfied the Bank's minimum requirements specified in OP/BP 10.02. A FM plan was
developed and carried forward with the MOH outlining key measures to further
strengthen the financial management system to allow for efficient use of report-based
disbursements. The project made significant progress in strengthening the system vis-à-
vis FM and continued to remain compliant with OP/BP 10.2. This was highlighted in
Aide Memoires and ISRs of the project. This was a good approach and ensured that the
project took advantage of capacities already built in the sector while providing financing
to strengthen identified weaknesses during project preparation.

42.     To mitigate risks raised by the limited capacity of the Auditor General (Chambre
des Comptes), the partners and Government agreed that, as an interim measure, an
international private auditing firm would carry out the audit of the program accounts


28
     Results from pilot are discussed in the Implementation Summary Annex 6 and Achievement of PDO section.


                                                         10
jointly with the Auditor General. These audits were performed bi-annually and all audit
reports were received in a timely manner. The project continued to make adjustments to
strengthen the FM aspects throughout the life of the project through Component 5 in
order to ensure that there was an adequate system in place for the follow-on investment.
As a result of the above, FM was appropriately rated as Satisfactory with a Low Risk
rating.

43.    Procurement. A Procurement Capacity Assessment of MOH, including training
needs and arrangements, was conducted as part of the project preparation and it was
agreed with MOH that the existing procurement unit of CRESAN II would continue to
function as the procurement unit for SHSDP. The procurement staff of the MOH were
twinned and housed with the SHSDP procurement unit to ensure transfer of capacity and
knowledge. There were some delays during project implementation29 in this area.

B. Safeguard policies

44.    Medical Waste Management Plan. The only safeguard triggered was the
environmental assessment, because a Medical Waste Management Plan (MWMP) was
required 30 . The proposed project was classified as environment "category B" for
environmental screening purposes, given the risks associated with the handling and
disposal of medical wastes. During the first six months of supervision, the Bank had the
opportunity to evaluate the implementation of the Medical Waste Management Policy.
Although some progress had been made, the performance was rated Unsatisfactory
because of the lack of sufficient equipment and infrastructure as well as operating budget.

45.     A series of key actions were agreed to and implemented to address the issues of
lack of infrastructure and insufficient supervision. At the end of the first year of
implementation, environment safeguards were deemed Moderately Satisfactory with the
understanding that on-going work and attention to this issue was needed. This was
justified given that, despite the political crisis in the country, most of the actions31 agreed
to in 2008 were completed satisfactorily. Those activities requiring a specific budget by
the follow-on Bank operation were unable to move forward due to the crisis. However,
these activities have subsequently been financed by the Bank-financed Multi-sectoral
STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project, which is on-going.

2.5       Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

46.    A follow-on operation, the JHSSP, was prepared and negotiated by January 30,
2009. This project leveraged additional resources through a pooled financing effort
under the JSSP with US$63 million from IDA and US$19.5 million in co-financing from
AFD (in silent partnership with KfW). The project responded to the remaining gaps in the
sector and was complementary to other activities with a design that integrated lessons


29
   Elaborated in Implementation Summary Annex 6
30
   The Project did not trigger any of the Banks social safeguard's policies, since land was not expected to be acquired
and work was limited to rehabilitation of existing infrastructures
31
   Detailed action plan can be found in Annex 3 of the May 2008 Aide Memoire


                                                           11
learned and implementation experience from the previous operations. The design also
incorporated some key findings from the evaluation of SHSDP by AFD to identify
potential activities for funding. The pilots that were implemented under the SHSDP were
to be adjusted based on the results of their evaluations and scaled up under the JHSSP
and by various partners, such as UNFPA.

47.     The partnership arrangements under the JHSSP clearly outlined a way forward
with respect to the pooled financing32. A MOU outlining the Guiding Principles for a
SWAp laying out the coordination, financing and monitoring principles governing the
implementation of the PDSS was signed by the MOH and 22 development partners
during the third Joint Health Sector Review in December 2008. These Guiding Principles
were to serve as the foundation for the development of a Country Compact, a critical
milestone of IHP+ to be prepared in 2009; however, this did not move forward because of
the crisis.

48.     Due to the political crisis, the JHSSP was pulled from the Board and most
partners in the sector moved toward funding emergency needs of the country. AFD is
putting in place an interim project of 5 million for 12 months to move forward some of
the key activities envisioned under the JHSSP and as a stopgap measure until the Bank
re-engages in the sector. While there have been setbacks in the health sector due to the
political crisis, the PDO is protected to some extent given that AFD, KfW, and the Bank
are committed to continuing the pooled funding mechanism as a way to support the sector
once the political situation normalizes.

3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

49.     The political crisis in Madagascar was an unforeseen event and has negatively
impacted the overall health sector. This must be taken into consideration when looking at
the relevance of the project and its performance, which should largely be assessed within
the country context before the crisis.

50.     Objectives (Substantial): The operation provided modest financing as part of a
longer term health sector strategy to achieve key health outcomes but it had too short of a
timeline with the added challenge of the crisis to link the health system and institutional
strengthening activities to improved access and utilization of health services in all areas.
However, the project did have a number of output indicators that were successfully
achieved well before the closing date of the project and would have likely been linked to
the improvement in access and utilization of services had the political situation in the
country remained stable.


32
   It was envisioned that a separate Collaboration Agreement outlining the organizational, institutional and coordination
arrangements for implementation, the roles and responsibilities of each partner pooling their resources as well as and
arrangements for adding new partners during implementation, would be signed initially by the Government, AFD and
the World Bank. The goal was that participating donors would gradually expand the share of their support to be pooled
and that other donors would switch from parallel to pooled funding as projects closed


                                                          12
51.    The main aims of the project are still relevant and are firmly embedded in the
country development plans, including the MAP. The project also clearly responds to the
bottlenecks outlined in the country's PDSS. The project supports the objective of the
Madagascar CAS Pillar II (2007-2011) which focuses on strengthening delivery of health
services. The Bank's CAS 2007-2011 aims at contributing to these goals by helping to
improve access and quality of services. In summary, the objectives of the operation were
supporting the longer term objectives of the health sector in Madagascar.

52.      Design (Substantial): The design of the project is still relevant today. It focused
on health system and institutional strengthening activities (Components 1, 3 and 5) and
aimed to address some of the following gaps as outlined in the PDSS as a first step in
resolving them:
 poorly equipped health centers and low levels of capacity to produce and deliver
    health services, especially in rural and remote areas (Components 1 and 3);
 uneven staffing of health facilities, especially in rural and remote areas (Component
    2) ;
 low levels of health financing and inefficiencies in resource allocation (Component
    3); and
 inadequate demand for health services and low levels of utilization (Component 4).

53.   The SHSDP was recognized as an essential part of a longer term engagement of
the Bank in supporting the evolution of a more harmonized health sector that would
produce better health outcomes in Madagascar.

54.     Implementation (Substantial): The implementation strategy is still relevant
today, despite the political crisis and the Bank's current inability to finance the
envisioned larger follow-on project. AFD is financing priority activities in the interim
through the same implementation mechanisms envisioned under the JHSSP. This is in
line with the long term strategy of the health sector in functioning through a SWAp
mechanism.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

55.     Rating: Substantial. The PDO for the project is to contribute to the strengthening
of the health system and enhance the institutional capacity of MOH to improve the access
and utilization of health services, especially in rural and remote areas.

56.     Indicators. The table in section F of the data sheet provides baseline and follow-
up estimates for indicators listed in the Results Framework, monitored in the ISR, and
additional relevant indicators. The following section highlights some of these indicators
to illustrate the achievement of the PDO. Key process indicators have been linked to
higher level indicators where appropriate.




                                            13
57.     Pilots. The project supported three pilots 33 that directly responded to priority
health issues and bottlenecks and gave an indication of what the follow-on operation
aimed to do. Moreover, they focused on three issues that disproportionately affect the
poor in Madagascar with a potential impact on resolving the issues of geographic and
financial equity in delivery of health services. These are discussed in greater detail below
in the context of the achievement of the PDO. Each pilot had a planned evaluation (the
pilots for TB and Emergency Obstetric and Neonatal care were completed but the
evaluation of the HR pilot could not be carried out due to the political crisis) from the
outset with a view to learning from implementation, adjusting the models, and scaling up
the interventions. The evaluations can inform the Government and partners in the health
sector as they scale up these interventions once the political situation in the country has
normalized.

58.     Sustainability. While the impact of the political crisis on the health sector is
significant, some gains made under the project will likely be sustained through the short
and medium term. For example, the Bank's leadership role in supporting the
Government in harmonizing the sector and the institutional strengthening for better
delivery of services for has been appreciated by partners on the ground as noted during
the ICR mission. The Bank continues to play a leadership role in the health policy
dialogue as illustrated by the joint AFD and Bank mission in April 2010 to agree on the
priority areas of the AFD interim financing to the sector. Partners remain committed to
moving towards working together and with a longer term view of supporting the
Government through a SWAp approach to reach the objectives under the MAP and
PDSS. The strong analytical work done by the Bank including the comprehensive CSR
that was finalized in June 2010 as well as the evaluations done under the SHSDP will
provide the basis and rationale for moving forward once the political situation in the
country stabilizes.

59.      The PDO can be broken into two parts:34

a) Strengthen the health system and enhance institutional capacity of the MOH
   (High)

60.    A number of actions needed to take place in order to prepare the health sector to
manage and implement resources for more effective service delivery. In this context,
process and output indicators were equally significant to those indicators defined as
output or intermediate outcome indicators. Two important areas that SHSDP supported
were:

61.    Harmonization and coordination. As discussed above, the health investment
budget is predominantly financed by donors (around 80 percent between 2000 and
2005)35. This aid was fragmented and put a lot of administrative pressure on the MOH.


33
   Tuberculosis, Emergency Obstetric and Neonatal care, and Human Resources
34
   The health systems and institutional strengthening component has a higher weight than the service delivery
component.
35
   Health Expenditure Review 2006/2007


                                                          14
In this regard, improved donor harmonization and coordination was critical to the
achievement of the PDO.

62.     The Joint Annual Reviews (JARs) initiated under the project in 2007 provided a
venue for partners and the Government to come to consensus on how to move forward on
key issues related to the broader vision for the health sector through a common approach.
These reviews were also the key platform used to move forward on initiatives such as
signing of the partner MOU by twenty two partners as a first step to signing the Country
Compact for IHP+. These meetings also served to address the allocative efficiency in
donor funding as partners agreed on financing specific activities in a complementary
manner.     The JARs were successful in facilitating a constructive dialogue around
bottlenecks and capacity constraints to service delivery. Because of their effectiveness, it
was decided that the reviews would be institutionalized to provide a mechanism for
monitoring progress on implementation of the PDSS and serve as one of the country's
health sector coordination mechanisms.

63.     Budget Execution. The low budget execution rate in the MOH had been
identified as a significant weakness. The project financed activities that contributed to the
increase in the budget execution rate in a relatively short period of time:
 The continuation of funding of the RAMs36 resulted in a 100 percent completion of
    annual workplans by all districts in a timely manner.
 The project also provided technical support (two consultants) to the DAAF to help
    resolve any bottlenecks efficiently37.
 The MTEF38 put in place a guiding framework for more effective planning and
    budgeting and fed into decentralized processes for planning.

64.     These combined interventions led to substantial increase in the budget execution
rate from 65 percent to 86 percent39 by the end of the project.

65.     Human Resources. The project supported a pilot that redeployed health personnel
in three regions of Madagascar40 with a package of financial and non-financial incentives.
Although planned for, the results of the pilot were not able to be evaluated because of the
political crisis. However, the final report of the pilot indicated that there was an increase


36
   Given the success of the RAMs, AFD will be supporting these roles in the interim financing to the sector. An
evaluation of the RAMs took place in October 2009. The report showed that of the 17 RAMS funded by PDSSP, five
were rated as highly competent, five were rated as competent, five had average skill and two below average skill and
professionalism. These two were supported heavily by the project to ensure that the AWPs were completed in a timely
manner
37
   As an example, during the 2008 fiscal year, supported by financing of the SHSDP, the MOH identified several errors
in its budget that inflated the budget envelope, thereby reducing the execution rate. The Ministry identified a number of
projects financed by AFD, the EU and GTZ that had been already closed in previous years and should not have been
included in the budget. Second, the MOH found that its 2008 budget had inadvertently included the AfDB's multi-year
budget for MOH instead of just the 2008 planned disbursements. Correction for these two errors resulted in an overall
smaller investment budget envelope for 2008
38
   This was an important element of the reform of the budgetary system undertaken by the Government and stressed the
importance of increasing efficiency and the efficiency of the actions of public health by streamlining of the use of
public resources
39
   MOH 2008
40
   Two of the regions were extremely remote and one served as a proxy of a less remote region.


                                                           15
in the number of health personnel in the targeted areas. As a result, the MOH was able to
meet 70 percent41 of it human resource needs in the three regions.

b) Improving the access and utilization of health services, especially in rural and
   remote areas (Substantial)

66.     The project funded a mix of proven interventions with testing innovative
approaches for better health outcomes focusing on health issues that disproportionately
affect the poor in Madagascar.

67.      It is important to note that that data collection for the 2008/09 DHS took place in
2008. The period covered during this particular survey was useful for general trends in
health outcomes in the country but could not be used to provide evidence for attribution
between the activities supported by this operation and higher health outcomes (such as
MMR) as these indicators take time to show change. Linkages of output indicators and
intermediate outcome indicators in the DHS to project activities can be made as described
in relation to some indicators below.

68.     Infrastructure for effective service delivery: This project built on progress made
under CRESAN and surpassed its target of upgrading of existing primary and first
referral health centers. A total of 48 health centers were chosen (12 primary health
centers and 36 first referral health centers) to be upgraded. There was a specific focus on
ensuring that these centers were in rural and remote areas of the country. As shown in
Table I below, these levels of the health system are frequented most by the poorest
quintiles in both urban and rural populations. It was thus critical to ensure that the health
centers frequented by the poorer segment of the population were upgraded to ensure that
the population had access to good quality health services.

Table I. Place of consultation across income quintiles and urban and rural areas
                              CH*         CSB 1      CSB 2       Private clinic   Private doctor   Other   Total
Urban
Poorest                       20.1        18.6       38.8        3.1              3.2              16.2    100.0
II                            14.9        11.3       31.6        5.9              24.3             12.1    100.0
III                           20.4        14.7       25.4        16.3             13.2             10.0    100.0
IV                            11.2        10.5       29.4        8.1              31.9             8.9     100.0
Richest                       23.3        4.9        20.6        7.5              32.7             11.0    100.0
Total                         19.0        9.5        26.2        8.3              26.0             11.0    100.0
Rural
Poorest                       5.1         25.5       58.0        0.9              6.2              4.1     100.0
II                            4.9         19.0       53.9        2.1              7.0              13.0    100.0
III                           3.5         12.9       56.9        3.0              12.6             11.3    100.0
IV                            1.2         11.6       66.9        2.1              11.4             6.9     100.0
Richest                       5.7         10.0       50.8        3.6              20.4             9.4     100.0
Total                         4.0         15.1       57.3        2.5              12.2             9.1     100.0
Source: Enquête Prioritaire auprès des Ménages(EMP) 2005



41
     MOH 2009


                                                            16
69.    Reproductive health. It is relevant to examine the trends in contraceptive
prevalence rates in the country because some of the interventions 42 under the project
aimed to contribute to the improvement of these indicators. Overall, the modern
contraceptive prevalence rate is increasing, especially in rural areas. According to the
DHS, the increased attention on family planning translated into improved behaviors over
the past five years. The use of modern methods of contraception, to which the project
contributed, has increased by 60 percent (from 18 percent of all married women to 29
percent), mostly due to remarkable improvements in the rural areas, albeit from a very
low prevalence of 16 percent in 2003 to 28 percent in 200843 .

Figure 1. Modern contraceptive prevalence rate (percentage of married women)
                                                          39 
                                                                     34            36 
     modern contraceptive prevalence 




                                        40                                                       28            29 
                                                                             27 

                                                                       18                      16          18 
                                        20

                                                                                          7              10           2008/09
                  rate




                                         0                                                                           2003/04
                                             Capital                                                                 1997
                                                        Other 
                                                                    Urban
                                                        urban                       Rural
                                                                                                       Total
                                                       centers



                                                                 place of residence
Source: Madagascar Country Status Report, 2010




70.    Maternal mortality. The Government sought to find innovative solutions to
some of the most critical issues contributing to the high MMR in the country with support
from the SHSDP:

71.     Issue: Assisted Deliveries. Assisted deliveries44 in Madagascar decreased from
51 percent to 44 percent in the past five years. According to the preliminary results of the
2008/09 DHS, a smaller percentage of women sought medically trained assistance during
childbirth than in the previous five-year period (. Unlike for all other behavioral changes
for which indicators in rural areas have improved, the decrease in childbirth assistance is

42
   During 2008, the project was one of the major financing sources the MOH in terms of family planning and related
interventions42. Project funding supported the following activities: 1) broadcasting of Family Planning messages
through 324 television ads and 579 radio ads, 2) Distribution of 33,000 Units of Implanon with consumables42 and
accessories Delivery of consumables to 534 sites to ensured within the standardized PF norms, 3) Training district
Implanon officials and 52 health workers in 19 districts that do not have previous training in the usage of Implanon,
4) stocked 211 sites with PF equipment and techniques, 5) Reproduction of 29, 500 management tools for Family
Planning, 6) two workshops to update the forecasting of contraceptives supplies, 7) Support to the district of
Antananarivo Renivohitra in the implementation of awareness and FP services campaign.
43
   Madagascar Country Status Report
44
   Medically trained assistance during delivery improves the health outcomes of the mother by preventing or treating
postpartum hemorrhage and that of the newborn in the immediate postnatal period.


                                                                                         17
attributable to poorer coverage in rural areas and in the capital. However, more women
delivered in a health center but this percentage remains alarmingly low, especially in
rural areas (35 percent overall, 32 percent among rural residents, and 60 percent in urban
areas). This is also linked to the inequitable distribution of human resources in the
country, financial barriers to accessing health care, and lack of knowledge of services by
the population, especially in rural and remote areas.

72.     Figure 2). Unlike for all other behavioral changes for which indicators in rural
areas have improved, the decrease in childbirth assistance is attributable to poorer
coverage in rural areas and in the capital. However, more women delivered in a health
center but this percentage remains alarmingly low, especially in rural areas (35 percent
overall, 32 percent among rural residents, and 60 percent in urban areas). This is also
linked to the inequitable distribution of human resources in the country, financial barriers
to accessing health care, and lack of knowledge of services by the population, especially
in rural and remote areas.

Figure 2. Assistance at delivery (percentage of women who had medically trained assistance at
birth, and percentage of women who delivered in a health center)




Source: Madagascar Country Status Report, 2010


73.     Response: Safe delivery kits. In July 2008, primarily supported by the SHSDP45,
the MOH introduced safe delivery kits, a demand-side intervention that resulted in
deliveries becoming free-of-charge at the health center level with the aim to incentivize
the poorer quintiles of the population to access this service.

74.     With regard to the impact of this activity, the client Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) showed there was an increase in the number of births in health facilities for
the period of July through December 2008 when compared with the corresponding period
in 2007. The monthly comparison as illustrated in the graph below, shows an average
increase of 16 percent in the second half of 2008, ranging from 12 percent to 22 percent
with a peak in December (22 percent) and in September (20 percent). Additionally,
anecdotal evidence during the ICR field visit to three regions suggested a very high
demand for these kits in health centers by beneficiaries.


45
   These kits were distributed nationally to all primary level public health facilities. In 2008, the SHSDP financed a
total of 397, 566 kits; UNFPA financed 52,000; and Marie Stopes International financed 19,693.


                                                           18
19
                                     Figure 3. Number of Births in Health Facilities (2007, 2008)

                          25,000 


                          20,000 
     Safe Delivery Kits




                          15,000 


                          10,000 


                           5,000 


                               0 
                                     July      August    September    October      November        December
                             2007   19,375     19,585      18,620     18,065         15,952          15,418 
                             2008   21,668     22,154      22,341     20,846         18,680          18,759 
Source: Client ICR


75.      Issue: Emergency Obstetric and Neonatal Care. Given that 65 percent of
women do not give birth in a health center, post-natal care interventions are all the more
critical for the health of the newborn and the mother. Referral and emergency services are
generally difficult for women to access, particularly in rural areas, further amplifying
some of these differences. Health centers manned by a doctor are not always accessible
and distances to district level hospitals are even greater. In addition to the physical
inaccessibility, the costs associated with the visit (direct costs, medicines, transport and
lodging for family members) constitute a barrier to access.

76.     Response: As an innovative response to maternal and neonatal mortality, a pilot
project supported care related to obstetric and neonatal emergencies free of charge in the
regions of Boeny and DIANA46. The pilot was implemented with a view to scaling up so
as to address the financial barriers in accessing these services. The specific objectives of
the pilot were to: (i) cover costs related to dystocic deliveries, cesarean surgeries, and
pediatric emergencies for infants 0 to 6 months of age; (ii) increase the number of
assisted deliveries; (iii) increase the revenues of the targeted hospitals; and (iv) improve
the quality of obstetric and neonatal emergency care in the targeted facilities. The pilot
covered all patients needing emergency obstetrical and neonatal care through a third-
party payer system.

77.    An NGO was sub-contracted to manage the funds necessary to run the payment
system. The patient sought the approval of the NGO prior to the care and presented this


46
  The University Hospital in Majunga, the regional reference hospital in Diana, the Type II district hospitals in Nosy
Be and in Marovoay


                                                             20
information to the hospital at the time of service. After the services were delivered, the
hospital presented the receipts to the NGO for payment of fees. The pilot was evaluated
and found that in the first year, the program covered 1,754 women in Boeny region and
1,030 in DIANA region for a total of 2,784 women. This represented a 15 percent
increase in the number of women in both regions47. The evaluation of the pilot revealed
that despite the fact that all treatment charges were covered, patients continued to have
significant out of pocket expenditures48. However, the review also revealed that patient
satisfaction with services was very high for the pilot (around 90 percent in Majunga and
Marovoay, and 100 percent in DIANA and Nosy Be). The evaluation concluded that
while the model needed some adjustments, the intervention was successful. The findings
of the evaluation were used to adjust the model for a larger scale roll-out in the country.

78.     Tuberculosis. While TB incidence and mortality in Madagascar is significantly
lower than in most neighboring countries where the HIV/AIDS epidemic has increased
the number of new TB cases. Figure 4 shows the prevalence rate in comparison to the
other countries in the region. TB disproportionately affects the poor in Madagascar.

79.     There are a couple of intertwining explanations for these findings as highlighted
in the Country Status Report (CSR). The sustained increase in TB incidence, which is the
rate of new cases being identified, can be attributed to worsening poverty in Madagascar
as well as to implementation of a more successful TB program which translates into more
cases being detected.

80.     Adherence is a critical issue in the context of TB treatment. Madagascar has 141
diagnostic and treatment Centers at type II health centers and at the district hospital
levels, and 800 treatment centers at the public and private health facility level.

       Figure 4. TB incidence, prevalence, and mortality, all forms with and without HIV+




81.     The SHSDP supported the MOH in implementing a pilot program that aimed at
increasing the treatment rate and reducing the number of patients lost to follow-up. The
program started in April 2008 and fully subsidized TB treatment costs for DOTS and


47
  Baseline was 2,370 (for both regions and combined for obstructed deliveries and cesarean). USAID, 2007
48
  between Ariary 40,000 on average (US$20) in Marovoay and Ariary 100,000 Ariary (US$50) on average in Nosy Be.
Most of the out of pocket expenditure (64 percent) is for drugs and supplies purchased within the hospital or a private
pharmacy.


                                                         21
       transportation, lodging, and room/board for all patients in 11 diagnostic and treatment
       centers. The evaluation showed that in June 2009 1,508 patients had enrolled in the
       program, of which 351 were in treatment. The number of patients lost to treatment was
       significantly lower than the national average of 17 percent (Table II).

                             Table II. Tuberculosis treatment, pilot program indicators
Diagnostic and               Enrolled    Currently in   Treated    Percentage   Lost to     Percentage
treatment centers            patients    treatment                 Treated      follow-up   lost to
                                                                                            follow-up

Itaosy                     182           41             112        62           22          12
Manjakandriana             46            10             33         72           0           0
Betafo                     104           21             54         52           22          21
Tsiroanomandidy            123           45             74         60           1           1
Ambatondrazaka             174           45             126        72           0           0
Ihosy                      48            36             12         25           0           0
Maevatanana                219           33             182        83           1           0
Marovoay                   258           51             191        74           7           3
Mahabibo                   207           31             168        81           0           0
Sakaraha                   78            12             50         64           10          13
Toliara                    69            26             35         51           6           9
Total                      1508          351            1037       69           69          5
        Source: SHSDP data

       Efficiency
       Rating: Modest

       82.     For a small amount of financing and short timeline, the project played an essential
       role in enhancing institutional capacity at the MOH, strengthening decentralized levels of
       the health system in financial management and budgeting and planning, and improving
       allocative efficiency of resources with the aim to contribute to better service delivery
       improve health outcomes. As a direct result of this financing, a follow-on operation of
       US$85 million was leveraged to move the sector forward. Unfortunately, many of the
       efficiency gains in the sector were not able to be fully realized as a result of the political
       crisis and there will be a cost of restarting the system once the country stabilizes. This
       contextual reality has resulted in the above rating of Modest.

       83.      Efficiency of project implementation: The efficiency of implementation is
       illustrated by the project disbursement profile49. The project had a very quick start to
       implementation right after effectiveness and was 96 percent disbursed of funds during the
       first 15 months with the majority of activities implemented. The remaining 4 percent of
       financing was not disbursed do to the political situation.




       49
            See data sheet



                                                        22
84.      Efficiency in the MOH: The project enhanced the capacity of the MOH in a
number of areas. As a result of the financing under the project, there was improved
efficiency of budget execution in the MOH and through strengthened capacity for
budgeting and planning at all levels. In addition, the project contributed to the
institutional strengthening of the MOH in the areas of procurement, project management,
financial management, and monitoring and evaluation. This in turn contributed to the
MOH's ability to more efficiently and effectively manage and utilize both public and
donor resources. The capacity to manage donor projects is demonstrated by the PCU's
mandate to manage the implementation of Global Fund resources and the World Bank
Multi-sectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project. The assessments during project
preparation identified areas that needed to be strengthened so that resources were spent
on priority activities, as described in previous sections, avoiding unnecessary duplication
of roles and ensured that the capacity that was already built was fully utilized.

85.    Efficiency of the returns to the investment: The project contributed to significant
progress on donor coordination and harmonization. This financing helped to address the
fragmentation and parallel financing issues as donors moved toward a more
complementary approach to supporting the sector. As a result of increased coordination
and harmonization, AFD and the World Bank had committed to a pooled financing
approach over a four-year period to finance the health sector. The broader partnership
was moving toward harmonized implementation procedures, including audits, financial
management and procurement so as to reduce transaction costs for the Government.

86.     A significant part of the financing under service delivery was used to test new and
more efficient mechanisms for addressing key public health issues and the lessons
learned from implementation and scale-up of these models would have likely had large
efficiency gains for the sector in the longer term.

87.    These efficiency gains were not able to be fully realized due to the political crisis.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

88.     The ratings of substantial relevance, substantial efficacy and modest efficiency,
result in an overall project outcome rating of Satisfactory.

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

89.     As part of the PDO, the project aimed to strengthen the overall health system for
more effective delivery of interventions to rural and remote areas, and as such, the
selection of interventions aimed to meet this objective. The selection criteria for
upgrading health centers prioritized rural and remote areas. There was a focus on
Neglected Tropical Diseases and TB given the burden of these diseases on poorer
quintiles of the population in Madagascar. The project also aimed to find innovative
solutions to increasing access to quality services by addressing health systems challenges


                                             23
related to distribution of qualified health personnel across the country. Finally, the project
focused on implementing demand side interventions to address some key barriers to
access of services predominately affecting poorer segments of the population.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

90.    As institutional strengthening was one of the key objectives of the project, the
impact has been discussed above.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

91.    The project had positive impacts at various levels of the health system:

  i.   Project management: As a direct result of the effective implementation of the
       SHSDP, the PCU is now managing the World Bank financed Second Multi-
       sectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Prevention Project and the Global Fund grant for the
       health sector. This is clear evidence that management capacity has been built at
       central level.
 ii.   Planning: During the field visits for the ICR, it was evident that there had been a
       positive behavioral shift in planning despite the fact that the project funds were no
       longer available and the RAMs were no longer being financed. Comprehensive
       annual work plans had been completed with prioritized interventions at regional,
       district, and health center levels, identifying all sources of funding and gaps in
       financing.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

92.     The main development outcome of the project was to strengthen the health system
to deliver health services more effectively. The most important potential risks to this
outcome are (i) further political instability, and (ii) insufficient financing in the sector to
protect the progress made. The political crisis in the country has lasted over a year and
continues to negatively impact the country as a whole. This is largely an exogenous risk
but is directly linked to the level of sectoral financing for the medium to long term.
While AFD has provided short term gap financing for the sector in line with the JHSSP,
if longer term financing does not come through, the gains made during the project as part
of the evolutionary process of the health sector toward a more efficient health system that
produces results, is severely threatened.




                                              24
5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1       Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

93.     The project did not go through a formal Quality at Entry review. The preparation
of the project was a joint process involving all relevant partners in the health sector and
was country-led. The design integrated the lessons learned and best practices from
previous Bank projects in the health sector to develop a project that supported
mechanisms that worked while addressing critical gaps, such as the fragmentation of
donor financing in the sector. The project was seen as the next phase of financing to set
the stage for a comprehensive sector wide approach in the health sector.

94.     A few issues could have been better addressed in the context of the project design
(as discussed in previous sections). In summary, the Results framework was a bit bulky
and the on the health interventions side, the project was ambitious and aimed to do a lot
with a relatively small amount of financing. There could have been a benefit to reducing
the number of health interventions rather than trying to include financing for so many
different activities.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

95.     The supervision of the project was consistent and of high quality throughout the
life of the project. The quality of supervision was essential to the project's success and
has the following salient features:

     i.   Comprehensive: The project benefitted from a strong decentralized team at the
          country level with strong leadership of a Task Team Leader (TTL) based in
          Washington DC. All key units of the Bank including FM and procurement were
          actively involved from the beginning of the project and participated in all
          supervision missions. This gave the fiduciary team members a comprehensive
          view of the project and allowed them to respond proactively to resolving any
          issues that arose during the implementation of the project.
  ii.     Responsive: The Bank team was highly responsive during the implementation of
          the project. One example was responding to all requests for No Objections within
          a 48 hour period, a policy put in place by the TTL at the start of implementation.
 iii.     Strategic: The Bank team was successful in providing effective implementation
          support while at the same time ensuring that the follow-on project was prepared.
          The team kept the focus on the longer term engagement of the Bank in the health
          sector and helped partners gain confidence in the approach. This was clearly
          evident in the large amount of co-financing that AFD committed to put into the
          follow-on project. In addition, donors appreciated the Bank's leadership role in
          catalyzing efforts to bring the sector together around the PDSS.



                                              25
 iv.    Analytical Work: The team ensured that there was a focus on producing
        analytical work during implementation of the project. A number of studies and
        reports were completed in the areas of human resources, community participation,
        and health service delivery with an aim to inform future operations and health
        policy. These studies fed into the CSR which was just finalized in 2010.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

96.    While there were minor shortcomings in the preparation of the project, these
shortcomings did not have an impact on the Bank's performance during implementation
which is rated at satisfactory. This results in an overall rating of Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

97.     The performance of the Government should be assessed before the political crisis
given that 96 percent of the project was already implemented. The Government that was
in place before the political crisis and during most of the implementation period was
committed to a longer term strategy in the health sector and there were no major
shortcomings in performance during that time. With the support of the SHSDP, the
Government took a leadership position in beginning to systematically address critical
health systems and institutional capacity issues and in the process built the foundation for
a more significant investment. The Government benefitted from having high-level staff
that had been in the sector since the beginning of the Bank's involvement and had
worked either indirectly or directly on Bank projects. This allowed for continuity and
first-hand experience in the evolution of the sector over the long-term. While there were
some minor issues with the technical units of the MOH coming fully on board
conceptually at the beginning of implementation, the strong leadership at the highest
levels in the MOH resolved any issues at technical level by ensuring that the strategic
vision the guiding framework for policy and implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

98.     The coordination of the project was the responsibility of the PCU. Its performance
was excellent as noted in both the Aide Memoires and ISRs. In the areas of FM and
Procurement, the PCU worked very closely within the MOH and project was part and
parcel of providing technical assistance to strengthen key units of the MOH such as
procurement and financial management and utilizing these units to achieve the objectives
of the project. The PCU played an instrumental role in the successful implementation of
this project. The team benefitted from the following:

       i.   Experience. The PCU had a number of technical staff that had been directly
            involved in the implementation of previous Bank projects and had been in the
            health sector for a number of years. This experience, coupled with the


                                            26
           appreciation for the long term strategy of the health sector, was one of the key
           reasons for efficient and successful project implementation.
     ii.   Integration. The PCU was integrated within the MOH and participated fully
           in the MOH's policy and technical discussions resulting in implementation of
           activities under a comprehensive and cohesive strategic framework.
    iii.   Proactive Approach. As noted in the Aide Memoires and ISRs, the PCU
           consistently approached issues with an action-oriented, problem solving
           approach. The PCU and World Bank team worked in close collaboration and
           any issues in implementation were addressed efficiently and effectively.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

99.     More weight was given to the contribution of the PCU in assessing this rating
given that the PCU was responsible for the management and day-to-day implementation
of the project.

6. Lessons Learned

100. Effective project management. Project management on the Bank side needs to
be sufficiently thought through and adequately funded to ensure that there is sufficient
support to implementation. An important contributing factor to the success of project
implementation was the strong management of the project by the Bank and the
Implementing Agency. On the ground presence of Bank staff dedicated to the project as
well as availability of the TTL and the task team working in close collaboration with a
dedicated PCU made a critical difference in ensuring the successful and efficient
implementation of the project.

101. Supporting a long term strategic vision in the sector. One of the strong points
of this project was its role in supporting the broader long term strategic vision of the
health sector in Madagascar. With the Government firmly in the driver seat, the
investment was seen as the next logical step in Bank support and was tailored with a
comprehensive view of the sector in mind. Because of the long term engagement in the
sector, the Bank was able to utilize one of its key strengths as a convener to play the lead
role in bringing together partners to support the Government. As a result, the relatively
small Bank investment prepared the sector and leveraged a significantly larger amount of
financial investment for the sector.

102. Building and utilizing country systems. The project was able to jump start
implementation right after effectiveness because it took advantage of the capacity built in
the areas of procurement and financial management. The implementation arrangements
took advantage of MOH staff in these areas that had been working on Bank projects. In
addition, the PCU was seen as part of the MOH, not as operating outside of it. This
allowed for a pragmatic and strategic approach to technical assistance to ensure that
capacity was built for the sector more broadly.




                                            27
103. Harmonization/coordination processes linked to results. Harmonization and
coordination were not seen as an end but rather as a means to support the Government in
reaching the health outcome objectives of the MAP and the PDSS.

104. Protecting progress. Madagascar was on its way to successful example of
implementing a SWAp for results in the longer term. As a consequence of the political
crisis, all planned funding from the Bank did not move forward. At present, the sector is
in danger of losing many of the gains that it has made over the past ten years. Human
Development and the health sector in particular is unique in that there needs to be a
sustained effort in ensuring that fragile gains are not lost. This is an issue for many
countries in Africa given the political realities on the ground. In the case of Madagascar,
the PCU and the technical units of the MOH have the capacity to implement but the
resources did not materialize. There needs to be a critical look at weighing the risks of
financing operations against the risk of losing the progress made in these types of
contexts.

105. Learning. The project implemented pilots as a strategic way to test interventions
with the intention of scaling-up models that worked. Therefore, baseline data was
collected and there was financing for proper evaluations. This should be considered good
practice in the context of Bank operations. Pilots that are not implemented in a strategic
manner (contributing to objectives of the overall project and with proper evaluations) are
difficult to assess and therefore can lose their intended purpose of testing an approach
that is meant to be assessed for a decision on whether or not it can be scaled up.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

106. The ICR mission interviewed all of the relevant PCU members. There were no
significant issues raised by the implementing agency.

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

107. The ICR mission interviewed key partners on the ground. Those interviewed
appreciated the Bank's leadership in bring the partners together to more effectively
support the health sector.




                                            28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                   Percentage of
            Components                               Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                       Appraisal
                                                        millions)
 Strengthening Delivery of Health
                                           4.9               4.5
Services                                                                     92
 Development and Management
                                           1.2               0.9
of Human Resources                                                           75
 Innovations in Health Financing
                                            .4               0.3
Management                                                                   75
 Improving Demand and
                                           1.0               0.9
Utilization of Health Services                                               90
 Institutional Strengthening               2.5               3.0            120

            Total Baseline Cost        10.00                9.6             96%
Physical Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs        0.00               10.00
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required           0.00               10.00




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                    millions)    millions)
Borrower                                         5.00         0.00         0.00
International Development
                                                 10.00       10.00        100.00
Association (IDA)




                                          29
                     Annex 2. Outputs by Component

COMPONENT 1: Improving Health Service Delivery
                                                                           Procurement of equipment and materials for 10 operating blocks

Support in improving functionality of existing primary and first referral Procurement of initial drug supply for 25 health centers
health centers at the district and community level
                                                                          Contract with SALAMA for distribution of drugs
                                                                           Procure of equipment and materials for 48 health centers
                                                                           Rabies vaccine supply in the 12 treatment centers
                                                                           Purchase of 500 boxes of 50 of streptomycin, 600 kg Propoxur, and 3
                                                                           tons of Delthaméthrine to control plague
                                                                            The provision of medicines and awareness materials from 41 districts
                                                                           and 12 regions of plague outbreaks
                                                                           The provision of insecticides 41 districts at risk for plague outbreaks

                                                                           The implementation of interventions and responses to four 'emergency
Contribute to the fight against priority infectious diseases               Ankazobe (2fois), Fianarantsoa II Mandritsara

                                                                            8 retrospective epidemiological investigations and control of monitoring
                                                                           indicators plague Ambohimahasoa, Ambositra, Antsirabe II
                                                                           Manjakandriana, Bealanana, Faratsiho, and Fandriana Tsiroanomandidy.


                                                                            Provide two campaigns Mass Distribution of Drugs (DMM) to combat
                                                                           filariasis in 30 districts most affected by the disease


                                                                           Roadmap Workshop to revise roadmap on maternal mortality

                                                                           Purchase and delivery of safe delivery kits

Support of Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning                   Delivery of consumables to 534 sites to ensured within the standardize
                                                                           FP norms.
                                                                           Purchase of 33,000 units of Implanon including supplies
                                                                           Train providers in proper insertion of Implanon

                                                          
COMPONENT 2 :Development and Management of Human Resources in the Health Sector
                                                                           rehabilitation of health centers and housing for health professionals
Pilot for redeployment and retention of health professionals of Melaky of
Androy and Vakinankaratra                                                 9 mobile phones, 18 sets, kits, housing (furniture, kitchen utensils) and
                                                                          31 motorcycles
                                                                           52 teams trained on results based management at district level after their
                                                                           performance of predefined.

Coaching capacity and management and service delivery training              Coaching and training of health personnel to strengthen capacity to
                                                                           enhance skills at regional and district level
                                                                           Support a pool of 30 coaches at central level and 85 coaches at regional
                                                                           level.
Strengthen the management of obstetric and surgical emergencies at the 20 surgeons trained in essential surgery
CHRR and CHD2
COMPONENT 3: Innovations in Health Financing Management
Developing the Medium Term Expenditure Framework                           Four development and validation workshops



                                                                                30
Improve Budget Planning and Execution                         Support technical assistance of a consultant to prepare the budget
                                                             program and workshops
                                                             Support two assistants to DAAF

                                                               
COMPONENT 4: Improving Demand and Utilization of Health Services
                                                             22 regional leaders trained on the new vision of Kominina Mendrika .


Harmonization of Community Approaches                        28 Kominina Mendrikas put in place
                                                             340 officials were trained on the process of Kominina Mendrika
                                                             implementation
                                                             Treatment, including drugs, consumables, imaging and laboratory
Obstetric and Neonatal Care Pilot                            analysis for patients in 4 sites
                                                             Food and lodging for patients during hospital stay
                                                             Support to all pilot activities in 11 sites (transport, lodging, food and
Tuberculosis Pilot                                           costs of testing for patients)

                                                               
                                                             Support of 17 Regional Accounting Managers
                                                             support of PRMP (central) and regional PRMPs
                                                             Financial support to regions for work program planning and management

                                                             Support to updating health map of 22 regions and 111 districts

                                                             Training at regional and district levels on use of health map

COMPONENT 5: Institutional Strengthening                     Communications network implemented in 4 Regional Offices and
                                                             Directorates and 4 CHR
                                                             Staff trained on new communications network
                                                             Supervision support at regional level to resolve communications issues

                                                             Telemedicine pilot in Manjakandriana which was to develop a
                                                             computerized system for medical records with appropriate software

                                                             Support to 2008/2009 DHS




                                                                   31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
A separate economic and financial analysis was not done as part of this ICR. It was not
deemed necessary given that the Country Status Report was recently finalized and
provides a comprehensive economic and financial analysis of the health sector in
Madagascar.




                                          32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation
Support/Supervision Processes
   (vi)    Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                              Title                Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Mukesh Chawla                Sector Manager                       HDNHE TTL
                                                                        Implementation &
Maryanne Sharp               Senior Operations Officer            LCSHH
                                                                        Operations
Paul-Jean Feno               Environmental Spec.                  AFTEN Safeguards
Anne-Claire Haye             Consultant                           MNSHD Technical and M&E
                                                                        Financial
Gervais Rakotoarimanana      Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
                                                                        Management
Sylvain Auguste Rambeloson   Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPC Procurement
Norosoa Andrianaivo          Language Program Assistant           AFTED Admin support
Supervision/ICR
Mukesh Chawla                Sector Manager                       HDNHE   TTL (until end 2007)
Maryanne Sharp               Senior Operations Officer            LCSHH   TTL (until closing)
Ando Tiana Raobelison        Consultant                           AFTHE   Public Health
Paul-Jean Feno               Environmental Spec.                  AFTEN   Safeguards
                                                                          Financial
Gervais Rakotoarimanana      Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM   management (until
                                                                          Aug 2009)
                                                                          Financial
Jean Charles Amon Kra        Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM   management (until
                                                                          closing)
Sylvain Auguste Rambeloson   Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC  Procurement
Lova Niaina Ravaoarimino     Procurement Analyst                   AFTPC  Procurement
                                                                  AFTH3 ­
Lubna Bhayani                Consultant                                   Health Economist
                                                                    HIS



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                                                      210.58
  FY08                                                                        0.00
                             Total:                                         210.58
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                        0.00
  FY08                                                                      142.85
                             Total:                                         142.85




                                               33
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on
Draft ICR
L'objectif de développement du PDSSP est de contribuer au renforcement du système de
santé et d'améliorer la capacité institutionnelle du Ministère de Santé Publique et du
Planning Familiale (MSPF) afin d'améliorer l'accès aux services de santé et leur
utilisation, surtout dans les zones rurales et reculées. Au-delà des résultats attendus en
termes d'amélioration de la performance du secteur sur certaines domaines techniques
spécifiques, l'appui institutionnel octroyé par le projet tient une importance capitale dans
la pérennisation des acquis.

Bien qu'il y ait eu une crise politique qui paralysait l'ensemble du territoire national au
cours de l'année 2008, les impacts négatifs sur la performance du secteur semblent être
relativement maîtrisés. Ce rapport d'évaluation comporte une triple évaluation :
technique, institutionnelle et financière. Il comporte également les prévisions pour la
pérennisation du Projet, les leçons apprises et l'opinion du Gouvernement sur l'IDA.
     (vi)    Evaluation Technique: Force est de constater que le projet a largement
             procedu ses objectifs. C'est au cours de l'année 2008 qua la majorité des
             activités a été menée. Les indicateurs du projet, détaillés dans ce rapport
             montre clairement.

     (ii) Une Evaluation Institutionnelle: Les pprocédures institutionnelles de la Vice-
     Primature proced de la santé Publique ont bénéficié d'un renforcement soutenu dans
     le cadre du PDSSP. Le pprocédures santé actuel est à un top niveau par rapport à
     l'échelle Gouvernementale car seuls deux autres pprocédures se trouvent au proc
     niveau : les Affaires Etrangères et l'Intérieur. Malgré la crise politique et ses sur la
     stabilité de l'équipe, la performance générale semble être maintenue pour l'année
     2009, sin on juge à travers les en programmation et budgétaire.

     (iii) Une Analyse financière : Le coôu total du projet est de USD 10.000.000, avec
     quelques dues à la fluctuation des taux de changes. Environ 90% des dépenses ont
     été effectuées au cours de l'année 2008 et le reste est totalement décaissé en fin de
     projet, sans aucun reliquat. Aucun majeur n'a été constaté la mise en oeuvre du
     projet et le Gouvernement pose un bilan très positif sur les système adopté par la
     Banque Mondiale en matière de gestion financière et de portefeuille du projet.

     (iv) Un plan d'action pour la pérennisation du Projet : Au moment de l'écriture
     du rapport d'évaluation, quasiment impossible de prédire le dans lequel le Pays va
     vivre dans les prochains mois. Par contre, on peut affirmer que les 34procédures34
     mises en place à travers le projet donnent toutes les chances dès que la situation le
     permette. La progression vers l'IHP+, enclenché au cours du PDSSP est parmi les
     aspects les plus importants pour l'efficacité des assistance extérieures.




                                            34
(v) Leçons apprises : Le consultant aura pour tâche d'analyser les points forts et
points faibles afin de mesurer chacune des composantes du projet ou tout au moins
des aspects transversaux que financier, institutionnel et technique.

(vi) Opinion sur l'IDA : L'appréciation de la Banque Mondiale lors de la
conception et l'exécution du Projet est très positive, notamment dans le sens de la
convivialité des relations, la richesse et la fluidité des dialogues et le
professionnalisme de l'équipe de la Banque. En plus, le système et les procédures
de gestion spécifiquement conçus et mis en oeuvre pour le PDSSP satisfait le
Gouvernement dans sa globalité.




                                     35
Annex 6. Implementation Summary
This section highlights some of the activities that were supported by the project. The list
is not exhaustive and gives some examples of the achievements and challenges during
implementation. Key interventions not included in this section have been discussed in
other sections of this ICR.

     a) Health Systems and Institutional Strengthening

Budget Planning and Execution. The project supported a number of activities that aimed
to strengthen budget planning and execution at all levels of the health system: i)
recruitment of two technical assistants to the Department of Administrative and Financial
Affairs (DAAF) to support the MOH is resolving budget execution bottlenecks, ii)
resources at regional level for work planning and budgeting exercises, and iii) technical
assistance and development workshops for the Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF). Some of the achievements of this support include: a) increase in the budget
execution rate 50 , b) 100 percent of regional and district costed annual workplans
developed, and c) development and finalization of MTEF for 2009-201151.

A key challenge was a six-month delay in the installation and training of SIGFP software
which was designed to connect the MOH, the Commissioner of Financial Control and the
Treasury, which was recommended in the Public Expenditure Review of the health
sector. The software was an essential mechanism to facilitate the adjustment of external
disbursements and data exchange between partners, the Ministry of Finance and Budget
(MFB), and the MOH in a systematic and standardized manner. In addition, this
contributed to the relatively slow progress on budget execution during the first four to six
months of the project.

Financial Management. With financing from the project, 17 regional accounting
managers (RAMs) were supported52 to provide and help regions in ensuring that costed
workplan were developed comprehensively from the health center level up to higher
levels. The financial management report template was also revisited procedures were put
into place for preparation and submission of reports. As a result of these activities,
costed workplans were developed and reports were submitted in a timely manner.

The FM aspects of the project at central level were consistently rated Satisfactory. In
contrast, there were some challenges with FM53 at health center levels as indicated by the
auditors. To address this problem, the regional accounting managers (RAMs) were given


50
   65 percent (2007) to 86 percent (2009)
51
   Because of the political crisis, the MTEF will need to be fully reviewed and revised.
52
   These positions were created under CRESAN2 and were successful in supporting the regions. As a result, it was
deemed essential that they were supported under SHSDP.
53
   Unregistered log books, missing receipts, unbalanced financial ledgers


                                                        36
the responsibility to identify the origins of the problems related to fund management at
health facilities and to establish a plan of action to resolve them to improve financial
management and accounting at the level of health facilities.

Procurement. The project supported an international technical assistant which had the
following tasks: (i) development of an internal audit manual, including procurement, ii)
training at all levels on this manual, (iii) the launch of an institutional audit to keep the
role of the Person Responsible for Public Procurement (PRMP) and management units of
the procurement according to the Department's activities and identify problems related to
staffing, iv) financing of PRMP at central level and 13 PRMP posts at regional levels.
This contributed to the timely preparation and submission of audit reports and facilitated
procurement at all levels. One of the key challenges was delayed recruitment of the
technical assistant. The Bank team worked with the PCU to resolve the issue given that
the weaknesses noted in this area could have jeopardized all the gains in other areas of
the department.

Harmonization and coordination. One of the key contributions of the project was in the
area of harmonization and coordination. The project financing supported three Joint
Annual Sector Reviews54. Some of the key achievements of this support included: i)
increased information sharing among donors and the MOH, ii) agreement on key priority
actions such as completion of the MTEF and updating the PDSS and iii) development of
a joint prioritized action plan that was updated every six months outlining key areas of
support by partner to provide financing through a more complementary approach as well
as identifying priority actions to improve sectoral performance55 to reach the MDGs. It
was through this platform that the partner Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the
IHP+ was discussed and signed by partners. Finally, these meetings were central to the
discussion around the SWAp and the move towards a pooled financing mechanism in the
sector.

Monitoring and Evaluation. The project supported a number of activities, including: i)
updating the national health map, ii) trainings on the use of software for the health map,
iii) supervision and management resources for M&E at central and regional levels, and
iv) financial support to the DHS. As a result: a) the updated health map of 22 regions and
111 districts is available from the Department of health statistics, b) aggregated up-to-
date data on the project was available at central level, and c) the Demographic and Health
Survey (DHS) results are available.

Human Resources. The project supported a pilot that redeployed health personnel to two
remote and rural areas of Madagascar to address the issue of uneven distribution of
qualified personnel in the country. The financing supported an incentive package for


54
   The Joint Health Sector Reviews had three components: (i) joint preparation of critical questions in a number of
thematic areas; (ii) a joint field visit to a number of different regions to better understand the problems in the field and
undertake discussions with stakeholders at the regional, district and community levels on the critical questions; and (iii)
a plenary session of two days to consolidate the field work and prepare a prioritized action plan for the following six-
month period.
55
   i) improving access to health services; ii) human resources; iii) improving budgetary processes; iv) decentralization;
5) M&E and auditing; and 6) alignment/harmonization.


                                                            37
qualified health personnel to move three regions for the pilot (two regions were very
remote and one used as a proxy). The incentive package included the provision of: (i)
means of transport, (ii) means of reliable communication, (iii) adequate modernized
housing, (iv) rehabilitated health center, and (v) compensation for redeployment.

While some of these aspects moved efficiently (29 mobile phones, 18 sets, kits, housing,
furniture, kitchen utensils and 31 motorcycles were procured), there were some
procurement and contracting delays. As a result, only twenty-one of a planned thirty-one
health centers were fully operational (i.e. upgraded and sufficient qualified personnel
redeployed). In addition, due to the political crisis, the planned evaluation of the pilot was
not able to be carried out.

               (b) Service Delivery

Upgrading of Public Health Facilities. The project financed: i) procurement of
equipment and materials56 for ten operating centers (CHRR), ii) initial procurement of
drug supply for 25 health facilities, and iii) purchase of medical, biomedical, and
technical equipment for 48 health facilities. This contributed to strengthening capacity at
decentralized level to deliver key public health interventions. While the component was
rated an overall satisfactory, there were some minor delays in delivery of equipment and
materials to the CHRRs and biomedical materials to the 48 health facilities.

Demand for services. One of the critical areas that needed to be strengthened, as
indicated in the PAD, was increasing demand for services, especially in more rural and
remote areas and among the poorer quintiles of the population to address the challenges
of inequitable access to services. Two examples looking at this aspect were:

      Tuberculosis. This pilot 57 was focused on increasing the rates of patients coming
      into health centers to be tested and treated and increasing the number of patients that
      adhered to the full course treatment of TB. The pilot was implemented in two
      remote and rural regions of the country, Boeny and DIANA. Activities that were
      financed included i) support for food, lodging and transport costs for participants, ii)
      testing costs for TB, and iii) contracting of NGOs to administer payment. Overall,
      the pilot was administered efficiently with the evaluation taking place as planned.
      The results58 of the evaluation were going to be integrated in the model for scale-up
      under the follow-on operation.


56
   consisting of regional reference hospital emergency incubator and monitors, echographs, curettage.
57
   The constraints related to treatment modalities resulting in costs related to patient non-adherence leads to treatment,
thus losing sight of the sick. Indeed, although these are free, is often abandoned because of financial inability of the
patient to assume the costs of travel expenses and accommodation that require treatment over a period of eight months
minimum. In addition, TB patients are essentially groups of poor, marginalized and highly vulnerable.
The project worked in collaboration with the TB Department in the MOH who was responsible for the technical design
of the pilot activities were funded by SHSDP.
58
   The recommendations had four main points: (i) the high relevance of the initiative was universally recognized by
program managers, health care providers and beneficiaries themselves; (ii) the allowances rates were too low and
needed to be adjusted, (iii) extending the initiative to other diseases should be considered, and (iv) there could be a
great benefit to bringing TB treatment to health facilities near the homes of patients. The evaluation also highlighted
the following: (i) the need for mapping structures of TB care that are more accessible and efficient, thereby reducing


                                                           38
       Kominina Mendrika59 (KM, or Champion Communes). Expansion of KM is an
      example of one of the interventions that the project supported with regards to
      increasing community demand and ownership for health services. Specifically the
      project supported: i) updating of community monitoring tools, ii) training of 22
      regional leaders on the KM concept, iii) 28 KMs put in place, and iv) 340 managers
      trained on processes of establishing a KM. All activities were implemented in a
      timely manner.

Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTD). The project supported interventions for combating
three60 NTDs. This was important as the funding under the SHSDP was one of the only
sources of financing to address these diseases. As an example, the project supported two
campaigns for the mass distribution of drugs to combat filariasis in endemic areas. All
activities were implemented in a timely manner and resulted in a significant decrease in
the prevalence of the disease in targeted areas. Due to the political crisis, a third,
essential campaign needed to eliminate the disease, was unable to be carried out.




the dropout rate; (ii) maximizing the use of community leaders is essential in the context of the implementation of the
policy of with support and buy-in from communities; (iii) more education and awareness raising of initiative among the
public as well as health professional health professionals to avoid misunderstandings and misinterpretations, especially
with regard to the rates of allowances; (iv) a "single window" that provides for delivery of TB drugs and benefits; (v)
while TB patients are recruited mainly among the poor and, in this case, rural populations, the equity aspects could be
further strengthened. For examples, adjustment in the rates of allowances between rural and urban as well as the
distance to treatment.
59
   Initiated in Madagascar by USAID over a decade ago as a means of mobilizing communities (at the fokontany, or
village, level) to improve vaccination coverage rates.
The basic principle beyond USAID's KM approach is to engage all community stakeholders in achieving short-term
health goals related to child and maternal health. This approach has produced good results in reducing diarrheal
disease and malaria incidence, increasing child immunization rates and antenatal care visits, and promoting family
planning activities.
60
   Rabies, Filariasis, and Plague.


                                                          39
      Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Madagascar Health Expenditure Review (2006/2007)
2. Madagascar Demographic and Health Survey (2008/2009)
3. Madagascar Demographic and Health Survey (2003/2004) Madagascar
    (2005) Enquête Prioritaire auprès des Ménages
4. Madagascar (2005) National Health Accounts
5. Madagascar (2005) Enquête Prioritaire auprès des Ménages
6. Madagascar (2005) National Health Accounts
7. Ministry of Health (2007-2009) Sustainable Health System Development
    Project Data
8. Ministry of Health (2009) Rapport de Cloture: Project de Developpement
    d'un Systeme de Sante Perenne (PDSSP)
9. Ministry of Health (2009) Evaluation Finale du FPCU
10. World Bank (2007-2009) Aide Memoires
11. World Bank (2008) CRESAN II ICR
12. World Bank (2007-2009) Implementation Status Reports
13. World Bank, IEG (2009) "Improving Effectiveness and Outcomes for the
    Poor in Health Nutrition and Population"
14. World Bank (2010) "Madagascar: A Country Status Report on Health,
    Nutrition, and Population"
15. World Bank (2007) Project Appraisal Document "Sustainable Health
    System Development Project"




                              40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33439
                                                                           45°E                                                                                                                   50°E




                                                                                                                                                                   Antsiranana


                            MADAGASCAR                                                 Mayotte
                                                                                       (France)
                                                                                                                                                                                Ambilobe
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Vohimarina
                                                                                                                                                      Ambanja
                                                                                                                                                                    ANTSIRANANA
                                                                                                                                                            Maromokotro
                                                                                                l                                                             (2,876 m)
                                                                                            e                                                                          Massif
                                                                                      n                                                                            Ts a r a t a na na
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sambava
                                                                                 n
                                                                           a                                                                                               Bealanana
                                                                       h                                                                  Antsohihy                                          Andapa       Antalaha
15°S                                                              C                                                                                                                                                                          15°S

                                                       e                                                                                                So               Befandriana
                                                   u                                                                                                       fia                                   Maroantsetra

                                             iq                                             Mahajanga
                                         b                                                                                                                                   Mandritsara
                                     m                                                                                                          Mampikony




                                                                                                                                                                                   An gavo
                                 a                                           Soalala                                                             em
                          z                                                                                                                                                                       Mananara




                                                                                                                                                B
                                                                                                                                                    ar
                                                                                                                                                      ivo
                      o                                                                 v   a




                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                     la




                                                                                                                                            ah
                M                                                                o              MAHAJANGA


                                                                                                                                               aj
                                                   Besalampy                 g



                                                                                                                                               amba
                                                                        n




                                                                                                                                                                         Andilamena
                                                                     Bo




                                                                                                          Maevatanana           B                                                            Soanierana-Ivongo




                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                etts
                                                                                                                                   s
                                                                 of




                                                                                                                                    ibo
                                                                                                                                      o




                                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                                     ka
                                                                                                                                                            Lake
                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                            Kandreho                                                                                      Fenoarivo-Atsinanana
                                                                ff




                                                                     Ma




                                                                                                                                                                                 Clif f
                                                                                                                          Andriamena




                                                                                                                                                                             IN
                                                                       na                                                                                Alaotra
                                                              Cli




                                                                          mb
                                                                            aho
                                                                                                    y




                                                                                                                                                                          AS
                                                                                                   avav




                                                                                                                                                                 Vohidiala
                                         Maintirano
                                                                                                Mah




                                                                                                                       Ankazobe



                                                                                                                                                                      AM
                                                                                                                                                                                       Toamasina
                                                                        Ambaravaranala                ANTANANARIVO
                                                                                                      ANTANANARIV O                                                 TO
                                                       Antsalova
                                                                                                                 ANTANANARIVO                       Moramanga

                                                                                                     Soavinandriana       Tsiafajovona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INDIAN
                                                                                                                           (2,642 m)
                                                                                                                                                                               Vatomandry
                                                                        Miandrivazo                                                                                                                                OCEAN
                                                                                                                        ata




                                               Belo Tsiribihina                                                                        Antanifotsy        Mang
                                                                                                                      kar




                                                                      Tsiribihina                                                                              or    o
                                                                                                                                                                             Mahanoro
                                                                                                                            Antsirabe
                                                                                                                     An




20°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20°S
                                               Morondava                                                         Mania
                                                                       Malaimbandy
                                                                                                          Ambatofinan-
                                                                                                             drahana
                                                                                                                                     Ambositra                        Varika


                                                                Mandabe                                                             Ambohimahasoa

                                                                                                                                                                  Mananjary
                                                     Manja                                                   Fianarantsoa                                                                    0     40         80   120   160    200 Kilometers
                                                                    Beroroha
                            Morombe
                                                             Mangoky                            FIANARANTSOA
                                                                                                                                                                                             0           40         80         120 Miles

                                                                                                                                                         Manakara
                                                                     Ankazoabo                       Ihosy                    Pic Boby
                                                                                                                              (2,658 m)                                                           50°E
                                                TOLIARA
                                                                                                                            Man                       Farafangana
                                                                                                                                an
                                                                                                                                                                                          MADAGASCAR
                                                       na




                                                         a       Sakaraha                                                         ara
                                                       ch
                                                   ere
                                                Fih                                             Betroka
                                     Toliara
                                                                     Onilahy                                                                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                    Betioky
                                                                                                                     Midongy-
                                                                                                                       Atsimo                                                                       PROVINCE (FARITANY) CAPITALS
                                                                                                           Tsivory
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                  Berakete
                                                                                                          rave




This map was produced by
the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                    RIVERS
                                                                                                      Mand




World Bank. The boundaries,
colors, denominations and                                              Ampanihy                                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS
any other information shown
                                                                                      l Amboasary   ateau
                                                                                roy P
                                                                        ra




on this map do not imply, on                                                d                                                                                                                       RAILROADS
                                                                         an
the part of The World Bank                                             ar A n d                                                                                      25°S
Group, any judgment on the                   Androka                en                                                          Tolanaro
                                                                                 Ambovombe                                                                                                          PROVINCE (FARITANY) BOUNDARIES
                                                                M




legal status of any territory,                                         Beloha
or any endorsement or
acceptance of such                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
boundaries.
                                                                           45°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOVEMBER 2004
