Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22391-TUN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36010; SCL-3601A; SCPM-3601S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$69.00 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
11/30/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchanige Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar
DT1.00 = US$ 0.725
US$ 1.00 = DT1.38
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFIC          Forestry Associations of Collective Interest
Associations Forestieres d 'Interets Collectives
EBGP          Project Management Unit
Bureau de gestion du projet
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDRA          Regional Agricultural Developmenit Commissariat
Commnissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole
DGF           General Directorate of Forestry
Direction Gen&rale des Forets
DO            Development O'bjective
FAO          Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
GFIC         Forestry Groups of Collective Interest
Groupements Foreslieres d'Interets Collectives
GOT          Government of Tunisia
W\RGREF      National Institute of Rural Engineering, Water and Forestry Research
Institut National de la Recherche en Genie Rural, Eaux et Forets
MfTR         Mid-Termn Review
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NIB/NDF      Nordic Investmenit Bank/Nordic Development Fund
N GO         Non-Governmental Organization
Organisation Non-CGouvernementale
OPDI         Pilot Integrated Development Operations
Operations pilotes de developpement integre
PDC          Community Development Plan
Plan de developpement comrnmunauitaire
P.NLF        Non-wood Forest Products
Produits non-ligneuxxforestiers
QAE          Quality At Entry
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
\Vice President:    Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib
Countttry Manager,'Director:    Mr. Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. Petros Aklilu
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       I 1
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     13
9. Partner Comments                                                                    14
10. Additional Information                                                             16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   2 1
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  27
Maps - IBRD No. 24535 and 24536
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID. P005725                                        Project Name: SECOND FORESTRY
DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough                   TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                  -    -Report Date: November 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                     L/C/TF]Vumber: CPL-36010;
SCL-3601A;
SCPM-3601S
Countrv/Department: TUNISIA                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector. AT - Forestry
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/01/91                                 Effective: 04/15/94
Appraisal:  10/01/92                                  MTR: 09/18/97
Approval:  05/11/93                                 Closing: 05/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Government of Tunisia/General Directorate of Forestry (DGF)
Other Partners:  Nordic Investment Bank/Nordic Development Fund
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Christian Delvoie                          Harrinder Kohli
Sector Manager:       Petros Aklilu                              Odin Knudsen
Team Leader at ICR:   Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough               Carlos Gois
ICR Primary Author:  Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough;
Raffael Suppa (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Suistainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quiality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Second Forestry Development Project (SFDP) as stated in the Staff Appraisal R,. Dort -
(SAR) (Report No. 11618-TUN) was to augment production to meet a growing demand for wood pr: ducts
and to address acute environmental pressures. The project would promote sustainable integrated
development and management of the Tunisian forest resources with an active involvement of the firestry
population and the private sector. Specifically the project aimed to: (a) augment the enviromriental
functions provided by forests, including reduced soil erosion and increased water retention; (b) improve
social conditions of the poor population dependent on the forests; (c) intensify quality wood produlction
when and where this is sustainable; (d) develop forest rangelands to relieve grazing pressure on the f::rests;
and (e) preserve the country's nature and wildlife heritage.
Project objectives and the means set out to achieve these objectives were clear and realistic. Experience
gained through the implementation of the Forestry Development Project (Loan 2870-TUN) was a major
benefit to ensuring this project could be implemented successfully despite the fact that SFD]' was
significantly larger than the first project and covered a wider geographic area. The SAR noted tha-:. there
were no major or significant risks to threaten the success of the project but it noted that the project
objective of securing increased private sector involvement in the sector might be difficult to achieve.
However, training and applied research provided by the project were expected to mitigate this risk. The
SAR also noted that sustainability of forestry development programs is highly dependent on the
receptiveness and active participation of the population. It was believed that the approach adopted o)n the
project to precede the investment program by consultation and participation would diminish this risk.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the 1997 Mid-Term Review (MTR) recommended changes in implementation arrangements and
technical design, it confirmed the validity of continued Government commitment to the original obje,; Lives.
As a consequence, the original objectives remained valid throughout project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
Seven project components were designed to achieve the project objectives:
*   Forest Management: preparation of forest management plans covering 85,000 ha across sites
selected for environmental services and production potential, execution construction of Forest
infrastructure (roads, firebreaks, housing, observation towers), assisted regeneration of 19,21)0 ha
of Aleppo pine and cork oak forest, and silvicultural works which entailed thinning over 52,000 ha
of natural forest and plantations of pine, cypress and eucalyptus;
*   Plantations: establishment of 25,400 ha of new plantations in the National Forest Estate, 4,1 00 ha
of stream bank plantations for riparian protection, 500 ha of plantations on private farmland, and
establishment of nurseries;
*   Forest Pasture and Range Improvement: reduction of grazing pressure on forest resources of
14,000 ha, through the establishment of new prairies (1,550 ha), fodder plantations (7,150 ha),
rangeland improvement (2,350 ha), cactus plantations (1,550 ha), pasture rehabilitation (1,4C'() ha),
and a training and technical assistance program that would help in the implementation :,If the
component;
*   Wood Exploitation and Value Enhancement: studies on the wood processing, secondary forest
products, and training in wood exploitation and processing;
*   National Parks and Reserves: improving management and strengthening the equipment stock of
national parks and reserves and providing means to control and protect wildlife;
-2 -



*   Forestry Research: 11 project related applied research program themes; and
*   Institutional Development and Pilot Operations (OPDIs): strengthening the Forestry
Department and the Regional Government Agencies (AF) and assisting them in implementing the
project, including the setting up and operation of integrated forest pilot operations with
Non-Governnental Organization (NGO) assistance.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components remained the same throughout project implementation but some minor changes
were made in the magnitude of some of the interventions. Overall, the changes reflected: (i) a shift in
focus in project management away from the central management unit to the twelve Regional Agricultural
Development Commissariat (CRDA); (ii) a shift away from mechanical planting of trees towards manual
planting; (iii) a reduction in the area under pernanent prairies and an increase in the area of acacia
plantations; and (iv) changes in road constraction to reflect community demands and cost effectiveness
objectives. Because the revisions were neither major nor considered to be a restructuring of the project it
was not necessary to change the legal documents. The results discussed hereunder are based on the
revised magnitudes.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
This project was prepared prior to the introduction of the Bank's formal performance rating for quality at
entry (QAE). However, the project's peer reviewers and Bank management cleared the project design and
considered its quality at entry to be satisfactory. This rating was based on the following main points and it
is confirmed by the ICR.
Strategic and project objectives. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS objectives of
sustainable management of natural resources and the environment and they were consistent with the
country's Eighth Economic and Social Development Plan, 1992-1996. Project design also reflected specific
and agreed sector objectives as well as the lessons leamed from the first Forestry Development Project
(Loan 2870-TUN).  Overall, project objectives were realistic and reasonably matched with the
implementing capacity of the General Directorate of Forestry (DGF), the executing agency.
Project design and components. Project design was consistent with the set objectives. SDFP was
specifically designed as a follow-up to the highly successful Forestry Development Project and to conform
to a key objective of the Government of Tunisia's (GOT) Eighth Economic and Social Development Plan
which confirmed the importance of economic development while ensuring the sustainable management of
natural resources. The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and the
objectives of the 1990 National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in which the importance of improved
forest management and conservation were highlighted. Activities within the components were sufficiently
well identified prior to project implementation and risks identified during project preparation were
adequately addressed. However, the composition of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and its linkages
with the key Sections of the Forestry Department were not adequately planned. As a consequence, the
project suffered some implementation delays and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities were
relatively weak. Subsequently an extension of five months was provided to permit the completion of a
number of specific activities. Competent technical staff and the general commitment of DGF led to
satisfactory results, but better team work and synergy would have resulted in more timely implementation.
Covenants. The project complied with all three effectiveness conditions.
Processing. The processing of the project was timely and satisfactorily completed. No major or unusual
-3 -



technical risks were foreseen at appraisal. In addition, technologies recommended for the plarlation
establishment program were well known and had already been used successfully under the first Forestry
Development Project. Project design emphasized applied research on themes jointly selected witli the
industry, DGF and the research institute, Institut National de la Recherche en Genie Rural, Eaux et,'- orets
(INGREF). To reduce the risks of lack of community participation in project implementation, p1oject
preparation also placed emphasis on consultations with the local populations to ensure inclusion o local
community views in the selection of priority actions.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The ICR rates the achievement of the Development Objectives (DO) and the project outputs as satisf .itory
because it achieved most of its major relevant objectives with only few shortcomings, project achievernents
are likely to be sustained, and the net present value of economic flows are positive at a discount rate of 10
percent. In particular, the reasons for this rating are: (i) the actual area of forest area under plantations
increased to 26,600 ha which is approximately 6 percent above the SAR target of 25,400 ha; (ii) the actual
area of forestry management plans developed by the project was 110,000 ha,which is equal to the revised
target area and 29 percent above the original target of 85,000 ha; (iii) the area of pasture establishz-d to
benefit communities living near forest areas was 12,170 ha which is 84 percent of the original taiget of
14,500 ha; and (iv) the successful implementation of pilot projects and studies, the established nurtseries
and the successful implementation of the institutional strengthening component of the project.
Two activities, plantations on private lands and the OPDI were not completely implemented. Development
of plantations on private land was blocked because of Forestry Code restrictions on harvesting and th,z use
of forestry resources on land that is designated as having forestry potential.  Despite the limited
implementation of the OPDI, the component contributed significantly to increased awareness of the value of
including local community participation in forest resource management. In addition, they also raised
awareness among local communities of the potential benefits to be derived from their participation in lorest
management. Experiences gained will be useful in the development of a long-term participatory
development plan for the forestry sector for use by an administration that has had little experience wit h the
technique.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Forest Management
Activities in the forest management component were satisfactorily implemented. This component corls isted
of the following three key activities: (i) implementation of the forest management studies; (ii) silviciltural
treatments as specified in the management plans prepared by the project; and (iii) forestry infrastructure
development. The component was designed to address the physical aspects of the management plans, such
as thinning, fire control, rehabilitation of roads.
Forest management plans: Implementation of this activity was satisfactory. Management studies were
carried out for an area covering 110,000 ha, increased at mid-term from 85,000 ha. A slight delay
experienced at the start of implementation because specific project locations had not been identified p> or to
the project launch and because of the lengthy procedures involved in selecting consulting firrns was
corrected relatively quickly. To build on the project's success and ensure that stakeholders benefil from
DGF's work, DGF has introduced a monitoring system  which records the implementation o~ the
management plans at the regional offices.
Silvicultural Works. Implementation of the silvicultural activities was satisfactory, attaining 90 percent of
- 4 -



the targets for regeneration and maintenance activities for both pines and eucalyptus, and 75 percent for
cork oak regeneration. The development of an adapted technology for cork oak regeneration was slow and
difficult, with slow progress in the initial years. However, the project was able to develop a series of
technical modifications and improvements, which overcame these problems. One further important benefit
of the silvicultural works was its contribution to employment through its use of small private enterprises,
many of which employed workers from local communities.
Forestry Infrastructure. Overall, the activity was satisfactorily implemented. Implementation targets
were fully attained, with the exception of new road construction and road rehabilitation, which attained
61% and 93% of targets respectively. The results fell short of the estimated targets because of the higher
than anticipated unit costs during implementation, a result of the difficult terrain and large distances
involved. All project infrastructure is operative and being satisfactorily maintained. Firebreaks and
observation towers constructed by the project are likely to give the most important immediate impact
through their contribution to reducing forest fires.
Plantations
Overall, implementation of the plantations component was satisfactory. The component was designed to
increase forest cover as well as establish stream bank plantations for riparian protection and to encourage
the development of plantations on private land. The component consisted of four main activities which are
discussed below.
Mechanized and Manual Plantations. This activity included both mechanical and mechanized plantations.
In total 24,200 ha were prepared for planting and approximately 22,800 ha, or 94 percent were actually
planted. Due to insufficient land area for mechanized plantations, the area to be planted mechanically was
reduced from 17,840 ha to 11,600 ha, and the remaining area was planted manually. Adjustments were
also made to take into account the higher than originally calculated costs of mechanized plantations, due to
the rugged terrain. Maintenance of the plantations is satisfactory.
Plantations along stream banks. This activity attained 90 percent (3600 ha) of its target (4090 ha) and is
judged to be satisfactory in terms of area planted and maintenance of established areas.
Plantations on private land. This activity is rated satisfactory. Implementation involved two activities:
plantations on private lands, which only attained 42 percent of the targets, and windbreak establishment
which reached approximately 85 percent of the targets. Plantation rates on private lands were low because
of the restrictions imposed by the Forest Code. The exceptions sought to these rigid restrictions were not
granted by the Government. In a bid to identify incentives to encourage this activity, DGF organized a
national seminar in 1999, in which recommendations were made to strengthen extension services to target
populations and the need to make changes to forestry legislation.
Pilot nurseries. Overall, the activity was satisfactorily implemented. This activity has generated the
largest immediate impact, which will likely contribute to long-term sustained benefits, provided the
nurseries are well maintained. In all, 32 out of 40 traditional nurseries were upgraded, and a total of 12
modem pilot nurseries were established. Six of the 12 modem pilot nurseries were established with Nordic
co-financing by the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) and Nordic Development Fund (NDF) (see section 9,
partner comments). In addition to rehabilitating and establishing existing nurseries and establishing new
ones, the activity also developed enhanced nursery techniques, and reduced labor intensive seedling
production. The better rooting seedlings produced have significantly contributed to better field
establishment. Once all nurseries are at full capacity, Tunisia will very likely be near self-sufficiency for
forestry plant material.
-5 -



Forest pasture and range improvement
Implementation of the forest pasture and range improvement component was satisfactory. ImplemeneL.ation
rates for permanent prairies, range improvement and rehabilitation and cactus plantations, are close tV- 100
percent of targets. Implementation concerning fodder tree plantations was relatively slower because the
population preferred fodder shrubs to the offered tree species. The identification of areas for rehabili-::ation
or establishment sites was carried out using the integrated management plans prepared as part of the Sorest
management studies. Once the compensatory plots were fully established, local communities formecL user
groups called Community Interest Forestry Associations (AFIC) or the legally recognized Community
Interest Forestry Groups (GFIC), having privileges of use of the pastures as well as the responsibiliLly of
their maintenance, with assistance from DGF.
A review of the activity during implementation showed mixed success of the participatory efforls but
recommendations resulted in increased participation with a subsequent improvement in implementation.
The actual transfer of the compensatory plots to the intended populations has been slow, 60 percent lv the
end of the project versus 100 percent establishment of these plots. This transfer process needs ::o be
completed to ensure sustainability of investments.
Wood exploitation and value enhancement
Implementation of this component was satisfactory. Tunisia's wood quality is low and as a result, local
industries prefer to purchase their lumber from the international market. Prices for local timber are on
average 20 percent lower than international wood prices due to lower quality. Factors contributing to low
wood quality are: (i) inadequate silvicultural treatment given after plantation establishment; (ii) diificult
climatic conditions; (iii) poor soils; (iv) low quality seed; and (v) poor harvesting techniques. This
component was one of the activities launched to understand the issue and to make recommendations for
future action. Two major activities were included, studies and training.
Studies. Implementation of the studies was satisfactory. Three studies were carried out: (i) "Analy is of
the demand for fuel wood" which included the development of an action plan on how to reduce forest
degradation and improve access by local populations to wood resources; (ii) "Analysis of the use of i4&ood
resources by the industrial sector" which described the sector and provided development
recommendations; and (iii) "Study of the quantity and valuation of non-wood forest products" vvhich
provides a census of the non-wood forest products in Tunisia and describes their social and ecor.omic
importance and an action plan for the promotion of the forestry industry. The results of the studies lhave
been incorporated in the national development strategy for the forestry and pastoral sector.
Training. Implementation of the training activity was not satisfactory. Training was an important part of
the capacity building activities targeted largely at people involved in harvesting forest resources for
commercial purposes. However, due to significant delays in the delivery of needed equipment andl the
shortage of specialized trainers, the planned training was never carried out. This training gap was partly
compensated by the successful completion of harvesting training courses carried out at the Forestry
Training Center.
National parks and reserves
Overall, implementation of the national parks and reserves component was satisfactory. This component
successfully completed its objectives to contribute to the protection and long-term manageme:it of
biodiversity in national parks and build capacity in DGF. Additionally, the component also contributed to
the development and establishment of: (i) an ecological inventory; (ii) measures to combat poaching in the
- 6 -



parks; (iii) environmental museums in Chambi and Sidi Toui, the Doughoumess National Park in Tozeur;
and (iv) an awareness campaign on the conservation of the fauna and flora in the national parks.
Forestry research
Implementation of the forestry research component was satisfactory. The research program designed was
fully integrated into the project and the research topics were selected with the participation of DGF,
INRGREF, and the forest industry. Implementation of the component was contracted out to INRGREF for
implementation, with the close collaboration of DGF. Given the personnel requirements for the relatively
heavy work schedule and INRGREF's limited personnel, INRGREF contracted researchers and students to
assist in carrying out the research work. Research results were integrated directly into project activities
and into the general forestry sector program. The component also contributed significantly to capacity
building in INRGRREF through its financing of international research specialists who worked in close
collaboration with local personnel.
Institutional development and pilot operations (OPDI)
Implementation of the OPDI component was satisfactory. This component was designed to strengthen the
Forestry Department and the regional government agencies, and to assist them in implementing the project,
to assist the agencies in setting up and operating integrated pilot forest operations with NGOs. There were
significant delays in initiating the pilot stage of the component which undermined the utility of the results
expected. The first OPDI was established in 1997, three others in 1999 and the last six in 2000. The slow
implementation was due to: (i) prolonged identification of partner NGOs having adequate capacity to
implement planned activities; (ii) inadequate capacity both in the administration and the NGO to develop
the working protocols of each partner; and, (iii) difficulties in identifying suitable personnel within DGF
with the right background to implement pilot activities.
The OPDI experience represents a good start that must be adjusted and adapted to take into account lessons
learnt and the specificity of forest dwelling populations. As a consequence, GOT has been urged to
continue to the implementation of these activities. This is particularly important for the OPDI that have
been operational for barely two years. It is also crucial that the OPDI work moves beyond the development
of a participatory approach to working out the details of how the populations can be involved in the
decision making process related to the development of forest resources and their management.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The impact of the project was re-evaluated, and the economic rate of return (ERR) re-estimated following
the methodology applied at Appraisal. Actual prices, final project costs and data and information on
planted areas, yields and inputs was used in the analysis. Detailed information on the analysis and
assumptions is given in Annex 3. The overall ERR of the project at completion, based on quantifiable
benefits, mainly wood, is estimated at 14 percent. This is, slightly higher than the ERR at Appraisal which
was estimated at 13 percent. The rate of return reflects the cost savings from the improved nurseries and
the participation of the small private enterprises in silvicultural activities. However, this ERR is considered
understated, given the strong positive, but non-quantifiable environmental impact of the project. Individual
rates of return for the main project sub-activities would range from 1.6 percent for conservation oriented
plantations in semi-arid inferior areas to as high as 31 percent for the plantations on riverbanks. A similar
exercise for the range improvement activities could not be carried out because of lack of data. The
sensitivity analysis shows that the project remains reasonably robust with regard to assumptions on
expected benefits. A reduction of wood yields by 15 percent would reassess the project ERR at about 11
percent, which is still considered satisfactory. The assumptions made and a summary of the results of the
- 7-



economic evaluation and comparison with the estimates made at appraisal is given in Annex 3.
Actions to enhance benefits
To enhance benefits to the forestry sector derived mainly from wood production, several strategic
recommendations were made during the supervision and ICR missions. These benefits will also accn:e to
other sectors, particularly agriculture and environment. The most important recommendations are listed
below.
*   continued emphasis on the quality of wood production to meet the requirements of the industry, through
the use of quality seeds and seedlings, improved land preparation prior to planting, improved
silviculture techniques and better matching of species to ecosystems and final product quality
requirements;
* step-up dialogue with the private industry to ensure that research carried out responds to the needs of
the final users;
* continue studies designed to increase the value of Tunisian wood. These studies need to evolve beyond
researching quality traits of wood to a longer-term strategy that includes looking at the issue of :ariffs
on imported wood. These high tariffs have had little effect on the arnount of wood imported, but could
potentially reflect adversely on local wood production and hence the sector's economic sustainabil:ty;
*   DGF will also need to enhance its ability to match its research objectives with the needs of the industry,
and the needs of the populations dependent on this scarce resource. DGF has launched this process
through the studies it carried out under the wood exploitation and value enhancement component and
the new strategy for the forest sector;
*   increase participation of local communities to enhance sustainability of investments in the sector and
the role of women in the forest sector;
* overall, the important, but difficult to quantify environmental benefits, deriving from forest protection
of agricultural lands, natural resources, dams and reservoirs etc, must continue to be firmly suprorted
in order to achieve the long-term sustainable benefit being sought by GOT.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return of return was not calculated for the project at the time of appraisal and it has not
been calculated for the ICR. At appraisal the NPV of a number of activity models was calculated ard the
corresponding financial analysis for the ICR is shown at Table 3 of Annex 3. The analysis confirms that
several activities would produce negative NPV as expected and that the orders of magnitude are not far
from those calculated at appraisal. As with the economic data stated above, these NPV do not incorporate
unquantifiable benefits of externalities such as the important environmental impact resulting frorn the
project effects created.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project contributed significantly to the institutional development of DGF, INRGREF and CRDA,
though only marginally to community associations due to the moderate success of the OPDI component. In
this respect, the positive institutional development impact of the project is likely to continue over the
long-term with few additional inputs. Sustained impact will derive from: (i) the decentralized project
structure and capacity building of regional personnel; (ii) the decree that facilitated greater involveme nt of
rural communities in the management of forests and pastures; (iii) integrating research into DGF's wvork,
resulting in a closer link between research and operations; (iv) training that benefited a significant nuraber
of DGF, INRGREF and other agency staff; and (v) specialized equipment for research and training that
will contribute to addressing issues of low wood quality in Tunisia.
- 8 -



Another important contribution that will have a significant impact on the forestry sector is the national
forest and pasture development strategy, which was financed by the project. The strategy takes into account
several key factors: (i) Tunisia has been involved in intensive reforestation activities for over two decades
and a significant part of the State owned lands are now under cover; (ii) the intensive reforestation activities
have resulted in a large area of young plantations, which will increase as reforestation activities continue;
and (iii) the need to increase local community participation in forest resources management if these efforts
are to be sustained. The strategy will guide future activities in the sector, and enable the identification and
justification of priorities in line with the overall objectives of the sector and available funding. The
document also presents an action plan with milestones for key objectives which subsequently feeding into
the Govermment's 10th Economic and Social Development Plan (2002-2006).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As expected, the Government does not have much influence on the prices of wood and wood products.
Seasonal or trend variability of wood prices were thus outside the control of the Government. Such
variability can affect project impact, if imports were not available. Hence, high protection against wood
imports should be avoided. The other critical factor outside Government control was drought, which
occurred during the early and late years of project implementation in some areas and delayed plantations
and lowered survival rates of newly established plantations.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
GOT was committed to achieving and sustaining the Development Objectives and it provided important
support to the project in a number of key areas to ensure this outcome. For example, it passed a decree to
allow participatory forest management; decentralization of the project's activities when it was deemed more
efficient; and it supported numerous dissemination workshops. On the other hand, problems encountered
with the plantations on private land activity could have possibly been alleviated through passing a decree or
other modification of the Forest Code to afford enough incentives for local populations to implement the
activity.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency was generally successful in achieving, and in some cases surpassing, the
project's physical objectives. The implementing unit was dedicated to attaining project objectives, and
although it essentially had one full-time technical manager supported by independent Service Chiefs, also
responsible for national activities, they were able to implement the project satisfactorily. However, the
M&E of the project could have been better managed by giving concemed personnel more training, assuring
adequate technical assistance, strengthening communication links between the central unit and the regional
offices, and through the development of more efficient M&E procedures. In many cases, data sharing,
capture and analysis could have benefited from increased verification from both the field and the central
offices. In addition, the implementing agency could have reduced delays in the implementation of OPDI by
identifying pilot sites and participating NGOs either earlier in the project cycle or faster. Furthermore,
appropriate technical assistance for the development of protocols under which the NGOs and the DGF
would operate should have been sought earlier.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project disbursement is $42.7 million, or 61 percent of the total loan agreement of $69.0 million.
Two cancellations were made, the first in August 1999 for US$3,401,440 and the second in April 2000 for
US$14,156,800. The undisbursed balance of the loan is approximately US$500,000. This amount could
change slightly on account of the final recovery of the special account. The remainder will be cancelled.
-9-



Several reasons can be attributed to the lower than expected disbursements: (i) significant depreciation of
the Tunisian Dinar during project implementation; the exchange rates changed from US$1 = 0.9 TD at
effectiveness in 1994 to US$1 - 1.38 TD by the end of the project; (ii) the significant re-allocalion, at
MTR, of activities from the higher cost mechanical planting to lower cost manual planting due to Lack of
forest areas suitable for mechanized plantations; and (iii) the reduction in new road construction in favor of
lower cost road rehabilitation.
Although project disbursement accelerated after the MTR, it was slow for the first half of the project,
mainly because: (i) the disbursement percentages for some of the key categories should have been set higher
than the estimates at Appraisal, which was corrected at MTR; (ii) the weak M&E resulted hi slow
communication between the regional offices and the implementing unit, and hence the Central Bark; and
(iii) difficulty in finding suitable land for mechanical plantation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
With the exception of activities linked directly to the OPDI component, development initiatives funded by
the project were of a high standard and are likely to be sustained.  Delays in implementation meant
however, that limited time was available to complete planned capacity building activities for the
participating local communities. This has left local communities with limnited capacity to continue with
their involvement in forest management. Nevertheless, if GOT allocates sufficient resources to ccrntinue
with the adoption and implementation of the methods established during project implementation the chances
of ensuring project sustainability will increase substantially. In addition, long-term sustainability vill be
enhanced further through the streamlining of the participatory techniques in forestry sector planning,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation activities.
No major risks to sustainability are evident but political will and commitment to continuing the
implementation of activities that were not completed, particularly those linked to local comirnunity
participation, are imperative. These issues have been discussed in detail with the DGF, and signaled to
higher officials through official correspondence. Assurances have been given that needed resources '6ill be
allocated through the national forestry program. However, the continuation of activities on private lands
will likely require legislative changes or significant incentives to overcome resistance.
The positive likelihood of sustainability of project outcomes is based on the following:
(i) GOT is committed to sustainable economic development with due consideration to the maintenance of
the environment and natural resources. This should assure needed resources for maintenance of key assets.
Additionally, forestry is being highlighted as one of the focal sectors in the next five-year Development
Plan (2002-2006), presently under preparation; (ii) overall project implementation has been satisfactory,
producing high quality results. The impact from key project activities has been immediate and, with
adequate maintenance, this impact will be sustained over the long-term. Improved seedlings, better
regeneration techniques, improved silvicultural techniques, and better regeneration techniques delivered by
the project will support the sustainability of project outputs; (iii) DGF possesses adequate human and
financial resources to ensure the required maintenance and the project design has emphasized the
integration of project activities into the overall sectoral activities nationally. However, the long-term
impact for all project results will depend very much on GOT commitment and ability to carry out the
required maintenance; and (iv) the closing of this forestry project is not expected to result in a lgap in
forestry activities. As project activities were integrated in the GOT's regional and national programs, their
continued implementation and maintenance will be absorbed as part of the overall programs.
- 10 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project was conceived as an integral part of the DGF activities and as such there is no expectation of a
marked transition between the project and normal operations. However, for certain activities, particularly
those involving the participation of local communities, some planning is needed to ensure that there is
continuation to build on the momentum established during project implementation. Of particular
importance will be the OPDI, which is new to the Tunisian institutional structure and has no precedence in
the national forestry program. For this pilot activity to yield meaningful results implementation must
continue for at least two years for the majority of the OPDI. The methodology being adopted has not been
adequately tested to give conclusive results, and only one OPDI was implemented for the full 5-year cycle.
Recently, a new Division has been created in DGF, responsible for the socio-economic development of
communities in and around forestry areas and it is intended that this division would build on the
experiences of the OPDI and other related work. However, to make this division fully functional,
capacity-building measures for its staff are required. The DGF is committed to continuing these activities.
In addition to the activities mentioned above, DGF will continue to support the transition of the unofficial
AFICs to GFICs. This will be important as official groups have the mandate to manage their own
resources and, with adequate capacity, can be more involved in the management and use of forestry
resources. Furthermore, it is expected that the OPDI activities will benefit from technical assistance from
the Northwest Mountainous Areas and Forestry Development Project that is under preparation, and which
will include a technical assistance component for communities living in and around forestry areas. The
recently closed Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project (Loan 3691-TUN) developed an
integrated participatory methodology which should be easily adapted and used in the Forestry Sector.
The reforestation activities carried out under this project, the previous Bank-supported Forestry
Development Project (Loan 2870-TUN), and the national forestry program have resulted in large areas of
young plantations, creating a significant need for silvicultural treatments. In the past, maintenance activities
received less attention than the establishment of new plantations. Additionally, planning for silvicultural
activities has historically been inadequate. Fortunately, the need to raise the priority for maintenance of the
new plantations is now accepted, and the national strategy that is being finalized clearly highlights this
issue. In addition, management plans have been prepared covering a significant part of these areas, which
should make work planning easier.
Lastly, DGF will need to continue handing over to the intended communities the pastures created under the
forest pasture and range improvement component. DGF are using an established protocol to accelerate this
transfer process. In addition, the DGF is preparing a proposal for a contract to be signed by the regional
forestry services and GFICs, under which such transfers would be made.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at project identification is judged as satisfactory. The project was a good fit with the
CAS objectives and regional level development agenda. Preparation and appraisal, on the whole, are judged
as satisfactory. The project was a follow-up to the Bank-funded first Forestry Development Project which
was also judged satisfactory. To encourage information sharing on the project design, and in particular on
project management, the Bank held a successful seminar/launching mission in January/February 1994. The
project could have achieved highly satisfactory implementation at project design if: (i) more focus had been
applied to strengthening the position of the project director vis-a-vis the division chiefs within the project
management unit (PMU); and (ii) the Bank had been more resistant to begin preparation of the follow-on
- 11 -



project before implementation of the first project had completed which could have avoided the one ,year of
non-activity between preparation and implementation, voluntarily imposed by the Government.
7.2 Supervision:
The overall Bank performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory. Supervision Trissions
adequately followed up on the various project components and activities. The MTR was thorough wuid the
small revision of some components built on lessons from the previous project, capacity in the implemnenting
unit and resources available. Exhaustive economic and technical analysis at MTR accompanied the
recommendations made. A QAG review at MTR gave an assessment of highly satisfactory The
continuity in staffing and smooth transition to a TTL already familiar with the project helped in satis iFctory
supervision. A minor criticism on the Bank's supervision performance is linked to the pilot OPDI
component. Given the difficulties experienced vis-a-vis the launch of the component, the Bank shoulcL have
insisted on its recommendation to decrease the number of OPDI to be implemented.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's performance at project identification was satisfactory. The project was consistemn with
the current overall five-year Economic and Social Development Plan, which called for sustainable
economic development with adequate attention being paid to natural resources management. The project
was also consistent with Forestry Sector priorities. GOT performance at preparation and appraisal were
satisfactory. The Government was highly committed to project objectives and provided all the nieeded
support to ensure a good preparation and appraisal. In addition, maintaining key personnel involved in the
first project significantly contributed to creating a stable environment for project preparation and aprraisal.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory. GOT was committed to
project objectives and was instrumental in a number of key decisions: the decree to allow the participation
of local communities in the use and management of forest resources; and the decentralization of the
implementing unit to increase the implementation efficiency of the project. In addition, GOT made available
necessary counterpart funds for project implementation. GOT could have contributed to an even ;,reater
success through the improved establishment of plantations on private lands by creating more incentii,z zs for
greater participation of local communities. A key incentive would have been the review and revision of the
largely restrictive Forest Code.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's performance is rated as satisfactory. Despite the fact that the project was twice
as large as the previous forestry project, the implementing agency was able to implement the project
satisfactorily. The implementing agency was able to absorb the impact of the mid-stream change from a
centralized structure to a decentralized structure with little loss in implementation momentum. With rzgard
to the accounting and audit covenants, the implementing agency sent all documents in time as requested. In
addition, the implementation team very capably integrated project activities into the overall national
forestry plan, while establishing close linkages with other agencies, such as the research and training
institutes. Also, the implementing unit pro-actively commissioned a post-implementation analysis of
developments in the forestry sector in the last 20 years, as an input into the national strategy.
However, with specific regard to the OPDI component, the implementation agency could have reduced the
problems experienced by: (i) accelerating the selection of sites, recruitment of personnel and needed
- 12 -



technical assistance to enable the component's implementation; (ii) reducing the number of OPDI to be
implemented given the short implementation period; and (iii) recruiting more assistance to strengthen the
M&E activities of the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The GOT remained committed to achieving project
objectives throughout project implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
The project provides several important lessons in the forestry sector and in rural development in Tunisia.
Although the economic importance of forestry to the national economy is difficult to quantify, its overall
contribution should not be underestimated. Efforts to achieve sustainable management and development of
these resources must, therefore, be supported. However, it is imperative that this effort include local
community participation if sustainability is to be achieved. Local community participation when developing
pasture and range management techniques is particularly important because their cooperation is critical for
the success of the process. Furthermore, local communities must be included in silvicultural activities and
in soil and water conservation activities because competition can lower unit prices for works, as was
observed in this project. Several specific project related lessons can be drawn from project implementation:
Technical
*   forest research must be designed as an integral part of the project activities to ensure coherence
between priorities of the research team, administration and end-users. For results to be meaningful,
research must be demand-driven and responsive to the needs of the end-users. Integrating research into
the overall project also creates stronger links between the operational agency and the research
institutes, which results in a research program that is consistent with sector development needs;
*   developed technical solutions should be consistent with the capacity of the implementing agency, and
techniques that are simple and easy are likely to be adopted and accepted more easily; and
*   the review of ongoing activities should preferably be carried out by an independent actor to ensure
adequate quality of project outputs, and an increased potential for sustainability.
Institutional
*   decentralization of project management functions can lead to more efficient project implementation. In
addition, it allows for capacity building to benefit a larger number of people. However, to ensure
maximum efficiency in a decentralized structure, communication between regional offices and the
central office must be well organized and efficient. This is very important for data capture and analysis
so a computerized M&E system must be developed for the regions to minimize multiple and manual
handling of data and minimize errors;
*   using a small project coordination unit attached to an existing Government implementing agency
removes the need for a project specific Project Management Unit (PMU) which often has no place after
the project ends. In addition, an institutional structure utilizing an existing implementing agency allows
the integration of project activities into the overall regional and national programs. This can assist with
a smooth transition from project activities to the overall sector program. However, the existing
implementing unit must have strong linkages with the institutions that will be associated with the
project, as well as have adequate administrative capacity to facilitate implementation and information
- 13 -



flow. Furthermore, for a project as large as this, it is important that there is a dedicated M&E specialist
to ensure adequate project follow-up;
* including the participation of numerous small private enterprises in manual plantings signifi;zantly
reduced the costs of plantation establishment without compromising quality. Community participation
in the planting program also ensured that the project's capacity building initiatives benefited a larger
section of the population, as well as creating employment opportunities for them;
* important legislative changes should be sought under broad policy changes rather than on an ad hoc
basis. Requesting an exemption to enable the implementation of an activity without seeking pennrianent
changes may actually impede long-term sustainability. Changes in the Forest Code sought by the
project to permit plantations on private lands would have only partially solved the overall issue of the
sustainability of local community participation which is also hindered by other restrictions on
harvesting of these resources.
Participation
* the use of a participatory approach in an inexperienced agency requires extensive capacity building;
preferably prior to project implementation. The capacity building measures should include techniques
for knowledge sharing, consensus building, and conflict resolution mechanisms;
*   where the utilization of a participatory methodology is new for the implementing agency and
communities, a phased approach should be used to allow a "learning by doing" approach. This is
particularly important for activities such as the OPDI, where rapid implementation would most likely
not permit enough time to carry out training activities, thereby leaving the local community groups in a
weak position to adequately participate;
* investments linked to participatory activities should be carried out after an initial phase of consuluations
and training of beneficiaries. These activities will allow time for communities to adjust to working as a
group, be cohesive and develop participatory mechanisms;
* it is important that extension agents involved in consultations with local communities work in a manner
that ensures continuity. Hiring part-time staff that are trained and then released at the end of the
project undermines capacity building efforts.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Second Forestry Development Project (SFDP) was approved in May 1993 and became effective in
April 1994. The Forestry Coordination Committee that was operational during the first forestry project
was consolidated and enlarged in response to the expanded objectives of the new project. The Coordination
Committee included representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Territorial Planning, Ministry of
Planning, Ministry of Intemational Cooperation, the private sector involved in forestry-related activities,
and the Union Tunisienne de l'Industrie, du Commerce, et de l'Artisanat. The project covered 5
bioclimatic zones, Saharan, Arid, Semi-arid, Sub-humid and Humid zones in 12 CRDA. Althoug[h the
project was at least twice that of the previous project, the fact that there was staff continuity frorn the
previous project, a well prepared implementation manual, significant knowledge of procurement,
disbursement and Bank project supervision facilitated efficient project implementation.
The decentralized implementation structure that was adopted after the first two years of the project
significantly improved implementation. The decentralized structure was particularly enriching for staff at
- 14 -



the regional offices who benefited from capacity building measures. The regional offices took over the
responsibility of planning, implementation and budget control for activities jointly agreed on with the
central PMU. An added flexibility that allowed for accelerated implementation was that any budget
residing in the regional offices not consumed at the end of a financial year was not automatically returned
to the center. This budget could be used to launch new activities agreed on between the PMU and the
region without having to follow-through the long budget procedures again. Furthermore, decentralization
also allowed project activities to be integrated at the regional level.
Overall, the project achieved the set DO and project outputs. One of the project's key successes was its
introduction of new technologies in forest seedlings production, through financing nursery construction and
rehabilitation. The result was better and faster growing plants in the field. With appropriate silvicultural
treatment these forests should result in higher quality wood production, and improved economic and
environmental viability of the sector. Forest management studies, forestry infrastructure, reforestation,
silvicultural and regeneration programs and forest pasture and range improvement components were
satisfactorily implemented. Two activities, plantations on private lands and the OPDI were not completely
implemented.
Another key achievement of the project was its contribution to developing small private enterprise
involvement in silvicultural activities, a new experience in the forest sector. Competition between the small
enterprises resulted in cost effectiveness through reduction of unit costs. With appropriate incentives, these
enterprises could eventually participate in the harvesting activities, to which their participation is presently
limited due to specifications of relatively large bidding lot sizes set in the Forestry Code. The new and
improved nurseries also contributed to cost effectiveness through: lower post seedling establishment costs
by reducing the need to re-plant failed seedlings or to irrigate seedlings to enable establishment, as well as
also by reducing the number of personnel needed in the nursery due to the improved technology.
In addition, the studies financed by the project on fuel-wood, forest industry needs and forest products have
produced pertinent information that will permit the sector to design activities that increase its commercial
and environmental objectives. Furthermore, this information has also been used as the basis for preparing
a forest strategy on which future activities will be developed.
The performance of the Bank during project preparation, appraisal and implementation was satisfactory,
professional, collegial and generally very positive. The Bank made available necessary technical assistance
to successfully complete all stages of the project cycle. The Bank's financing of technical assistance in the
research fields positively benefited all of the forestry sector. The Bank was flexible in carrying out needed
changes to reflect lessons learnt during implementation. This was particularly the case for the OPDI
component where the Bank supported an FAO convention to provide personnel to plan and execute the
activities. An added benefit from Bank participation was leveraging additional funding for the nurseries
from the Nordic Development Bank. The Bank also financed several workshops to facilitate information
sharing across sectors, agencies and also with a wide range of beneficiaries, the private sector, local
communities and NGOs. The Bank also facilitated an important first-step on working with NGOs and the
local communities through the OPDI component. The Bank will continue to provide assistance in
developing further this activity through another Bank-funded project, the Northwest Mountainous Areas
and Forestry Development Project that is currently under preparation.
The Government of Tunisia was committed to achieving successful results, and it made available necessary
human and financial resources. In addition the Government also expedited the passing of a decree that
allowed, for the first time, local communities to participate in forest activities. The Government
commitment to improving the sector and to the involvement of the local communities in the sector
continues. A new forest sector and pastoral strategy, which highlights local community participation has
- 15 -



been prepared and recently, DGF created a Department that would oversee aspects of socio-economriic
development in the forest sector. Forestry has also been included in the 10th Economic and So: ial
Development Plan (2002-2006) as a priority sector for support through this 5-year plan.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) and the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) signed a loan agreement with
GOT in June 1994, for $US11.2 million (US$5.6 million NIB and SDR4 million NDF). NIBfN[)F
participated in the Plantations activity, particularly the nurseries activity. They financed the rehabilitation
and establishment of six modem nurseries in four CRDA (Kef, Kairouan, Kasserine and NabeAl).
NIB/NDF also participated in the financing of three studies carried out under the Wood exploitation aund
value enhancement component: (i) analysis of the demand for fuel wood; (ii) analysis of the use of wood
resources by the industrial sector; and (iii) study of the quantity and valuation of non-wood forest products.
The loan is expected to close on December 31st, 2001.
The project is being successfully implemented and NIB/NDF rate the achievement of the project's
objectives as satisfactory.  The project introduced new technologies to nursery development that
significantly improved the quality of seedlings. The NIB/NDF also provided important technical assistance
to DGF on nursery development, including the development of appropriate growing substrates for seedling
germination. The impact of the project's results were immediate - better and faster growing plants in the
field requiring lower field maintenance and produced at a lower cost. The improvements obtained should
contribute to improved economic development of the forest sector.
The NIB/NDF rates its collaboration with the Bank as satisfactory, a sentimnent that is fully shared by rhe
World Bank team. NIB/NDF had a productive and friendly relationship with the Bank. Information w-as
shared freely between the two agencies. During supervision, the NIB/NDF activities were also followed Lip
by the Bank when requested and feed-back given. Through this collaboration, the two agencies were able
to increase the imnplementation efficiency of the nursery development activity and maintain a high quality
output through the provision of qualified personnel. NIB/NDF also provided technical assistance at
specific intervals for follow-up on the activity's implementation. The Bank's nursery development a:,so
benefited from the presence of the NIB/NDF technical assistance. NIB/NDF benefited from the Bank's
involvement in the overall sector's development, particularly in the reforestation component which was tIhe
key user of the seedlings produced. Overall, the improved nurseries have contributed significantly to GOT's
objective of being self-sufficient in seedling production. The GOT has expressed a desire to produce
enough high quality seedlings to supply neighboring countries. GOT has apparently already been
approached by a neighboring country to provide forestry seedlings.
Sustainability of the investments is expected to be high. The high quality outputs and the conmmitrnent of
the Government to continue funding maintenance activities should contribute significantly to achievi-ng
sustainability. Also, because the nursery activities were an integral part of the national forestry prograir:,
there is little requirement of an extra budget to transition these activities to normal activities.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  ActuaULatest Estimate
Forest area under plantations increased by   Forest area increased by 25,000 ha  26,600 ha
about 25,000 ha
Management plans for sustainable forestry   110,000 ha                        110,000 ha
prepared for 110,000 ha of existng forest
area
Access of populations to forest pastures  14,500 ha                            12,170 ha
improved on 14,500 ha
Lessons leamt from pilot nurseries, OPDI,   3 nurseries rehabilitated and one preliminary  12 pilot nurseries established; 32 traditional
studies, and research incorporated in  evaluation of OPDI carried out         nurseries rehabilitated; 10 OPDls in which
programs and policies.                                                        implementation began; 3 wood technology
studies carried out; 13 research themes
carried out and results are included in
implementation
The output indicators, as presented in the "Projected in last PSR" column represent the revised indicators
and not what was in the last PSR. It was not practical to reproduce all these ICRs in the PSRs and only a
few were followed. The list below, is a more comprehensive list.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
A. Forest Management                   Contracts awarded for about 40,000 ha.
A.1 Management Studies (ha)            110,000                                 110,025
Contracts for management plans awarded to  Contracts awarded for 110,000 ha    Contracts awarded for 110,000 ha
private sector for 110,000 ha
A.2 Forestry Infrastructure            60                                      61
New Roads (km)                      700                                     649.3
Road Rehabilitation (km)            240                                     332
Firebreaks (km)                     240                                     11
New Forestry Posts (no.)            8                                       32
Rehabilitation Forestry Posts (no.)  25                                     24
Observation Towers (no.)            25
A.3 Silvicultural works
Pine Plantation Demonstration (ha)  21,200                                  19,595
Pine Natural Forests Demonstration(ha)  20,600                              22,070
First Thinning Cork Oak (ha)        2,300                                   2,023
First Thinning Eucalyptus (ha)      7,900                                   7,758
Cork Oak Regeneration (ha)          5,000                                   4,307
Aleppo Pines Regeneration (ha)      14,200                                  13,080
Maintenance (ha)                    19,200                                  14,612
B. Plantations
A.4 Contracts for management plans     Contracts awarded for 40,000 ha         Contracts awarded for 40,000 ha
awarded to private sector for 40,000 ha of
forest plantations and pastures.
B.1 Mechanized Plantations
Plantations (ha)                    11,600                                 8,592
Maintenance (ha)                    11,600                                 6,012
B.2 Manual Plantations
Plantabons (ha)                     13,800                                  14,177
Maintenance (ha)                    13,800                                  14,240
6.3 Plantations on Streambanks
- 1 7 -



Plantations (ha)                    4,090                                  3,589
Maintenance (ha)                    4,090                                  2,116
B3.4 Plantations on Private Lands      500                                    208
Plantations Pilot Pnvate (ha)       1 000                                  839
Plantations Windbreaks (ha)
EB.5 Nurseries                         3                                      12
New Pilot Nurseries (no.)           40                                     32
Rehabilitation Nurseries (no.)
C. Forest Pasture and Range Improvement
C.1 Permanent Prairies
Land Preparation (ha)              950                                    885
Seeding (ha)                       950                                    880
Maintenance (ha)                   950                                    325
C.2 Shrub Plantabons
Land Preparation (ha)              9,500                                  3,903
Shrub Plantations (ha)             9,500                                  5,688
Maintenance (ha)                   9,500                                  2,451
C.3 Rangeland Improvement (ha)         2,350                                  2,757
CA.4 Cactus Plantations
Land Preparation (ha)              1,550                                   1,119
Plantations (ha)                   1,550                                   1,506
C.5 Rehabilitation of Rangeland (ha)   1,400                                  1,338
D. Institutional
D.1 OPDIs                              100% of pilots operational with lessons being 100% of OPDls operational established and
10 OPDls operational                derived                                lessons being derived
D.2 Nurseries
3 pilot nurseries established       12 pilot nurseries established         12 pilot nurseries established
30 traditional nurseries rehabilitated  32 traditional nurseries rehabilitated  32 traditional nurseres rehabilitated
D.3 Studies
3 wood studies carried out          3 wood studies completed               3 wood studies completed
End of project
- 18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    47.00         40.90        45.10                    133.00
(39.50)      (8.90)       (12.50)         ()        (60.90)
2. Goods                     4.50         1.10          0.00         0.00        5.60
(3.10)       (0.80)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (3.90)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         4.20          0.70        4.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.20)       (0.00)       (4.20)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         4.70          0.00        4.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     51.50        42.00        54.00         0.70        148.20
(42.60)      (9.70)       (16.70)       (0.00)      (69.00)
- 19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category          ICB         Procurement Method               N.B.F.       Total Cost
Expenditure Category  ICB             NCB           Other'
1. Works                         23.00           12.00          30.30           6.10          71.40
(17.10)         (7.00)         (9.30)          (0.00)        (.3.40)
2. Goods                          3.90            0.20           0.10           0.70           4.90
(3.00)         (0.10)          (0.00)         (0.00)         3.10)
3. Services                       2.10            0.00                           1.50          3.60
(2.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         :2.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         '1).00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.30           0.00           0.30
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.10)         (0.00)         I (0.10)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         01).00)
Total                         29.00           12.20          30.70           8.30           30.20
(22.10)         (7.10)         (9.40)         (0.00)         (38.60)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of cc.ritracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs re ated to (i
managing the project. and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
| ecntage of Appraia
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate                            I
Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   C 4: vt.  CoF. l
Civil Works, buildings,   3.20       3.20                  2.10       1.80               65.6   56 .3
roads, firebreaks
Forestry Works            36.20      15.00                 9.10       3.70               25.1   24.7
(mechanized)
Forestry Works (manual),    13.50    54.40                15.70      28.30               116.3   5.- 0
including thinning
Equipment, Vehicles and   4.00        1.70                 5.10       0.60               127.5   35.3
Materials
Consultant services and   4.80                  0.70       1.60                          33.3            0.0
training
Pilot Operations           7.30                 4.20       3.20                 0.40     43.8            9.5
S-A Converted                                              1.90
The co-financiers in the table above includes the African Development Bank, Beneficiaries and the Norciic
Development Bank who were all involved in the project's implementation.
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Quantifiable Benefits:
As indicated below, the incremental quantifiable benefits attributable to the project arise from wood
production from mechanized and manual plantations, including those along river banks and those
established as wind breaks. Benefits from additional forage resources and minor forest produce were also
included in the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the project. Separate economic analysis for the
range improvement activities could not be carried out because of lack of detailed data on respective areas
and costs. In line with the assumptions indicated at appraisal, the project has generated important
environmental benefits but these were not easy to quantify and are, therefore, not included in the analysis.
Assumptions made:
It was assuned that the world CIF price of wood increased by an annual average of 0.8 percent in line with
the World Bank projections of major agricultural products. The minor forestry products (firewood, Aleppo
pine seeds, etc.) are valued at the market price. Finally, a unit of grazing is considered as being equal in
value to the price of Ikg of barley. The table below shows the projected prices between 2012 and 2020,
based on the hypotheses on world CIF price of wood.
Table 1: Projected prices in 2012, 2015 and 2020 based on the 0.8 percent annual average increase
Product        Unit      Market reference      1994-2001   2012    2015       2020
Sawn-timber
Fir pine        M3       Sylvester pine (Russian)  177       198       203         229
Aleppo pine     M3       Chilean Pine              81         92        95         109
Eucalyptus      M3       Poplar                    80         91        94         108
Poplar          M3       Poplar                    80         91        94         108
Industrial wood   M3     Pine chipwood             37         44        45          53
Fir pine        M3       Pine chipwood             37         44        45          53
Aleppo pine     M3       Pine chipwood             37         44        45          53
Eucalyptus      M3       Pine chipwood             37         44        45          53
Poplar          M3       Pine chipwood
Firewood        M3       Market price              13
Nuts of Fir pine   Kg    Market price of pine
kernels
Seeds of Aleppo   Kg     Market prize of           5
pine                    gzougou
Pasture         UF       Market price of barley    0.2
To calculate economic costs, financial costs given by the DGF have been adjusted to reflect the real
utilization of economic (or national) resources (that is, the opportunity costs). This calculation was at three
levels:
(i) the cost of plants, which are given free of charge by the Administration, are added to the project costs.
On the basis of a unit cost of 0.2 DT per plant, planted at a density of 1100 plants per hectare, the cost of
plants is calculated at 220 DT/ha;
- 21 -



(ii) the recurrent costs, most of which represent labor costs, constituting the essential costs of the labor
t'maintenance and guarding), have been reduced to reflect the opportunity cost of the labor in the forestry
zones, characterized by an important unemployment rate. It is assumed that the real cost of the labor is
equal to 80 percent of that actually paid; and
(iii) the investment costs have been reduced to take into account the over evaluation of the manual labo:r as
well as taxes which constitute an internal transfer and not a permanent levy on the country's resources. In
the absence of detailed data, a conversion factor of 0.90 was used.
Table 2 shows the areas planted by farm model and Table 3 summarizes the Economic rates of return, for
the various farm models.
Table 2: Areas planted and the expected wood production by farm model
Model                     Appraisal                       Latest Estimates
Ha                 M3                Ha                M3
Mechanized              4,400           1,355,200           3,547            886,750
Manual                  3,800            585,200            6,493            922,006
Sub.Total               8,200           1,940400            10,040          1,808,756
Mlechanized             8,190           1,859,130           2,512            492,352
Mlanual                                     -               3,243            389,160
Sub.Total               8,190           1,859,130           5,755            881,512
Nlechanized             5,250            740,250            2,533            341,955
Nlanual                 3,800            281,200            4,441            341,957
Sub.Total               9,050           1,021,450           6,974            683,912
River Banks             4,090           1,171,785           3,589           1,030,043
Wind Breaks               500             97,500              839            163,605
Total                  30,030           6,090,265          27,197           4,567,828
-22 -



Table 3: Estimated ERR and NPV by farm model
Activity (Farm Model)                   Appraisal                   Actual
ERR         NPV**         ERR         NPV**
%        Million DT       %        Million DT
Plantations, Mechanized, Humid-Sub-humid    13.6       4.4              14      3.2
Plantations, Mechanized, Semi-Arid Superior  7.9      -3.1               9      -0.2
Plantations, Mechanized, Semi-Arid Inferior  2.9      -3.6               3      -1.2
Plantations, Manual, Humid/Sub-Humid       13.1        1.9              12.9   3.3
Plantations, Manual, Semi-Arid Superior     2.6       -1.1               4      -1.5
Plantations, Manual, Semi-Arid Inferior     0.3       -1.2               1.6   -1.4
Plantations, River Banks                    18.3       5.3             31       10.0
Plantations, Wind Breaks                     13.8      0.2              14.6    1.1
** NPV are calculated using market prices
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  -Implementation Deiv.-lopment
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                       Progress     CObjective
Identification/Preparation
07/1991          i           3   F,E,S
03/1992                      8   E,F,S,F,NRM,SP,PL,E
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/1992                      8   U
Supervision
10/1993                      1   IE
02/1994                       1   IE                                  S             S
05-06/1994                   2   IE, F                                S             S
10/1994                      2   IE, S                               S              S
04/1995                      1   IE                                   S             S
12/1995                      3   OA, F, OP                           U             U
06-07/1996                   3   BO, F, OP                            S             S
01/1997                      3   OP, F, E                             S             S
10/1 997 (MTR)               6   OP, P, F, SP, E, PL                 S              S
05/1998                      3   OP, NRM, F                           S             S
10/1998                      3   OP, NRM, F                           S             S
02/1999                      1   F                                    S             S
06-07/1999                   2   OP, F                                S             S
02-03/2000                   4   OP, F, S, SP                         S             S
09/2000                      5   NRM, E, S, SP, S                     S             S
02/2001                      2   NRM, E                               S             S
ICR
03-04/2001                   S    E, F, E, SP, FN                     S             S
E = Economist; F = Forestry; FN = Finance Specialist; NRM = Natural Resources Management Specia:list;
OP = Operations Officer; P = Procurement Specialist; IE   Irrigation Engineer; S = Sociologist; CA -
Operation Analyst; BO = Budget Officer; SP = Silvopastoralist; PL = Plantation Specialist; MTR =
Mid-term Review; N.A. = Not Applicable; U = Unidentifiable
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  |                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                34.6                         23.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                     62.5                        175.0
Supervision                              127.1                        543.8
ICR                                       10.0                         30.0
Total                                    243.2                        772.0
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
[ Macro policies                          0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
* Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
* Financial                              O H  *SUCM  O N  O NA
* Institutional Development               0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           * H  CSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
X Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
X Private sector development              0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
X Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6 1 Bank performance                                 Rating
X Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
E> Supervision                                       OHS OS   OU   OHU
F>] Overall                                          OHS OS  O u  Q HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
.X Preparation                                       O HS  s    O  u  O HU
M] Government implementation performance             0 HS * S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agencyperformance                   O HS * S   0u   O HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U  O HU
-26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide-memoire in French is available on request
Also available in French are the following annexes:
Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Forestry Research: Project Results
Bilan des OPDI
- 27 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24535
T U N I S I A
SECOND FORESTRY                                                                    BIZRT $W a           n                       37
DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT                                                                BEJA          N
Bioclimatic Zones
Siliana                   Gulf of Hammamet
- 304          ~~~~~EL K F    p      t                X i36
SAHARIAN                                                 f      44                     Ahon3i
SA H ACRI A N         Kairouan G                    MONASTIk
ARIDr                                                            AIROU   N
4?MAND~A     ahdicz
SEMI - ARID                   Ka sserine
- 35        gA~~~~~SSE RitNg     Si di B ou Zi                               35 
35   s `~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
SUB - HUMID
D         I~~~~~~~ BOU ZID        SFAX      ato T
HUMID                                                                                            Kerkench
J GAFSA                     ;3,wGolf of
II    Salt Lakes                                      ho                         Ott
Governorate                                 e                              GABES
Governorate                                                                      _      
Bounda ries                    33           \           KE@ltI            g     t         ()   , ao ..
(      National Capital
\                 ~~~TATAOUINf   E     '  
International                   32-                                                                              32
Boundaries
0   25   50   75
KILOMETERS
-7
31
This map has been prepared
by The World Bank s sEtf
exciusivetly for the convenience
of readers and is for the
nternal use of The World Bank
Group.The denominations used
and the boundaries shown
on this nop do not imply, on toe,p
part of The World bonk Group,                                 
onyj uda ent on the ieogl
status of any rerritary or anY
endorseent or acceptance of
L   such boundaries.                             rJ                                                                   1993c11
JANUARY l1993






MELiJ fEF[RANLA Ai                                                      Z TE
,UatQm S A        7 Gulf of Tunis                                         s
w                     A                                   - -               KAICA \~---o
35.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
TOER  =-   _  hflne dnyn f  A     \       . . .
Ao0v4/ / / \fdl'' ',-'-','"'.-'-''-''-..
3 SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT t3X2ftj
Forest Cover and Project Activities                                      ,        ,    TATAOUNINE                    
,.Project Arec s
Main Proted Adtiviies/ 
A   Manngnmnnt Pbres                 ,    Salt Lakes                                                     
o    Ranrotino                     -=    Rivers/                                                    
o2  ThinnnCg                                                                             t                        1 U          9 
F'Iatio   hoMintoad
FPorest Cover andP             e    Cities and Towns
PmiedAma                                                                                       C:~SGonrortsCaitl
Alnepo Pion                     ---   Governorate Rounsiaries9 n3 /av
-.-    InrrSatioal oandanesk/
Kl      Espoarta Grass                                                                                                   .I
32-        I| Olher Forest/Scrub                                                                s3                     
Pkdo~~hon                   ma dbdi T. R. a =r. ID
Z~~~~~~~~~~~Ce anot=d T-w/e    2
r 8r9.                                                                 10.           4 Th JO,n,le  7,>jl   NIGER    CHAD'-94



