D _ocM=t of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rept No. P-6006TUN
ME IORAJU  AND   OMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTElNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRCTION AID DEVELOPME
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AmuNT EQUIVALENT TO US$69 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SECONID FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 16, 1993
7    *1~~~~~   -  I- ~~~~~   i;~~~~-  1
g4.I-F                T
Trs document bas a res'cted distribution ad may be used b repie    only in the performnce of|
tWr ofricial dutiesL Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank auhrzto. 



CURRENCY EOUMEIVAI
(Janary 1993)
Currency Unit    =   Tunisian Dinar (D)
US$1.00          =   D 0.9
D 1.00           =   US$1.11
WflGHT AND NKMEAUP
'he metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFIC  -      Forestry Association of Collective Interest
(Association Forestiere d'Jnthrt Collectif)
CFPR  -      Professional Training Center of Remel
(Centre de Formation Professionnelle de Remel)
CRDA -       Regional Agricultural Development Commission
(Commissariat Regional de D6veloppement Agricole)
CTS   -      Technical Monitoring Committee
(Comite Technique de Suivi)
DGF  -       Directorate General of Forests
(Direction Generale des Forets)
DREF -       Directorate of Forest Exploitation
(R6gie d'Exploitation Forestiere)
FC    -      Forestry Code
(Code Forestier)
FCC   -      Forestry Coordination Committee
(Comite de Coordination Forestiere)
FSP   -      Sylvo-Pastoral Fund
(Ponds Sylvo-Pastoral)
INRF  -      National Institute of Forestry Research
(Institut National de Recherche Forestiere)
NFE   -      National lorest Estate
(Domaine .-.orestier de I'Etat)
NGO  -       Non-Governmental Agency
(Organiation Ncn-Gouvenementale)
PMU  -       Project Management Unit
(Bureau de Gestion du Projet)
SCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPBX-O F nam
SECOND? FOY=MMM                            PROJEC
LOAN AND PRQ,1C   liJMR
l*orr,ow,er:                Republic of Tunisia
AmQnt-                      US$69 million equivalent
17 years, including 5 years of grace, based or. level repayment of
principle
Financin:Ljj
World Bank                                   69.0
African Development Bank                       0.7
Beneficiaries                                  4.2
Government                                  _74.2
Total Project Costs                          148.1
Bcopoic Rate of Rehtu       13 percent
StaffAppraisal Report       No. 11618-TUN
MMsNo.                      EIBRD  24535
IBRD 24536
This document has a restricted distribution and way be used by redpients only in tb' 1,.'ormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World B ;nak aut orization.



I      1RIPUUC OFTUWM&
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contnts
ba No.
I. COUNTRY POUCIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ............  1
A. Intmduction ..............................................    I
B. Pas *Perfra    ...........................................   2
Preudoto Adjustment .....................................    2
TheAdjusnenPfogram  ....................................    2
mpact of theProgram  .....................................    3
WoidBankGroupOperadons ...................                         .....            5
C. Extena Envnnmet .................................                                       6
D. Govermnent Deveopment Policies and Bank Assistance S             ....       .........   7
Bank Assist          Strateg   ...................................    8
Instrunients to Support  e Strategy .............................   9
Pra  Sector Development ..         ................................  11
PublicAdml         onand PublicSectorResources  ....................  12
SocialSetorsndt*e Allelon ofPoverty  .......................  12
Natural Resources and the Environment ..........................  14
ExternaEconomic hntgration ..................                                      15
IBRDLendingLevel ......................................   15
DownsideRl PkandContigency Plans  ..........................   16
E. Summary            ......................................                              17
H. THE PROPOSED PROJECr  ........................................   17
ATTACEHMElS



MEMOANUM AND RECOMMENATION OF TIE P
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSMUCTON AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$69 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNIIA
FOP. A SECOND FORESIRY DEMELOPMENT PROJECT
1.           I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Republic of Tunisia for the equivalent of US$69 million to help finance a project
for forestry development. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity
of 17 years, including 5 years of grace.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Inrnduction
2.           During the past decade, Tunisia has witnessed remarkable economic transformation, and
done so while continuing its traditional emphasis on the social development of its inhabitants. Most of
the macroeconomic distortions that threatened the economy in the mid-1980s have been reduced to
manageable levels (see para. 11). From being a highly regulated economy, it is being gradually
transformed into an outward-oriented, private sector-led economy. Its first attempt at reentry into the
international financial markets in 1992 was successful. This experience and the growing importance of
direct foreign investment, helped by the country's decision earlier this year to adopt current account
convertibility, are indications of the market's positive assessment of Tunisia's medium-term
creditworthiness. Finally the country has invested heavily and successfully in human resource
developmen. and it shows in terms of its social indicators, relatively low and declining population growth,
actve participation of women in development, and the skills of its labor force.
3.           By most accounts, therefore, Tunisia is one of the superior performers among the Bank's
member countries. In a gradual but persistent manner, it has traversed the difficult stabilization period
and is now poised for the post-adjustment phase.
4.           And yet, an important unfinished agenda, particularly of post-adjustment issues, remains
in the economic and social arenas. Indeed the next stage of reforms is likely to be no less challenging
than the last one as it wfll involve more difficult structural and behavioral changes in the public and
private sector entities. The lingering vestiges of close regulation-dating back to the presidency of
Bourgutba-need to be eliminated. The banking system, though in the midst of important reform, remains
somewhat fragile, and the financial system overall is still relatively underdeveloped. Ihe privatization
program needs to be accelerated. The civil administration must undergo profound changes to respond
to the ongoing liberalization and decentralization. In the social sectors, the commendable achievements
so far need to be tempered by the existence of pockets of poverty, the rising budgetary burden of the
social benefits and the need for greater private sector pardcipation in the provision of public services.
While the Government has demonstrated strong initiative in dealing with issues relating to the



-2-
management of naua  resources and the environment, a great deal remains to be done: the serious
scarcity of fresh water resources, the protection of aquifers from depletion and pollution, deforestation
and pollution could threaten sustainable economic growth F Finally, Tunisia is in the midst of integrating
its economy more fully with the rest of the world, particularly the European Community.
B. Pad
Erelude to AdJustment
5.           Given Tunisia's policy during the 1960s and 1970s of heavy goverent regulation and
absence of domestic and external competition, the pertinent question is not why an economic crisis
occurred but M it was forestalled until the mid-1980s. The answer lies in three factors. First, a policy
of granting tax exemptions and simplified customs procedures helped create enterprises that exported all
their output, and the so-called "off-shore' sector grew rapidly. Second, oil export revenues increased
significantly owing to volume and price increases; by 1980 petroleum products accounted for close to
60% of merchandise export earnings (compared to about 15% today). Third, tourism grew rapidly, in
part due to a generous investment code for the sector and in part due to deft exploitation of Tunisia's
climatic and locational advantages.
6.           The collapse of world oil and phosphate prices in 1986 that led to larg6 budgetary and
balance of payments deficits (see Table 1) also exposed the structural weaknesses of an economy that was
inward-oriented, protected and heavily dependent on depleting resources. The situation was complicated
further by the presence of large and untargeted food subsidies that amounted to over 4% of GDP by the
mid-1980s.
The Adjustment Program
7.           Starting in 1986, the Government initiated a comprehensive stabilization and structural
adjustment program aimed at reducing the distortions in the economy, improving efficiency and resuming
economic growth. The key elements of the stabilization program were demand management through tight
fiscal and monetary policies, exchange rate adjustment, price liberalization, and financial sector reforms.
Public investment was brought down from the unsustainable level of around 30% of GDP of the previous
years. Consumption was restrained by keeping wage increases in the public sector below inflation, which
elicited a similar behavior in the private sector. Food subsidies were reduced by elininating them on the
items that were consumed less by the poor. Finally, interest rates were gradually freed and the only
significant constaint remaining (a cap on each bank's average spread of its lending rates over the money
market rate) will be removed before the end of this year.
8.           These stabilization measures were accompanied by a series of structural adjustment
measures. The tax system went through a complete overhaul and is now exceptionally fair, simple and
efficient. A highly distortionary and complicated set of indirect taxes was replaced by a value added tax
(VAT) on non-agricultural production in 1988 and was extended to wholesale, excluding foodstuffs, in
1989. A number of direct taxes, extremely uneven in their incidence and correspondingly unfair, were
replaced by a simple direct tax with a maximum marginal rate of 35% and no double taxation. The
maximum import tariff was reduced to 43%, and quantitative import restrictions, which in 1986 applied
to most imports and protected virtually all of manufacturing and agriculture, were gradually reduced.



-3-
Similarly domesic producer prices and distribon margins werc liberalized. By lae 1994, quatative
restrictions would cover only about 5% of produedon in macting and agricultu  (a few articles
of basic consumption such as brown bmd and vegtable oil). The same will apply to the lieralization
of producer prices and distrbuion magins. In the financial sector, new and rigorous prudential
regulations have been dopted, and the Cal Bank has stengened Its own spevisory functions. Tne
stock maret, which had atophied becau  of the reliance on bans and budgetary funds for financing
was refomed In 1988-89. The two principal obtcles to the deveopment of bond markets wer
removed: the Treary ceased to reure bans to buy its 10-year low intere bonds (8 118%) and now
Issues bis and bond at rat  negoded with the bans (10% - 11 1(2%); and fiscal incentives that
encouraged the retention of prmy Issues and certain bank deposits were eliminated to allow secondary
markets to deveip. Tbis fiscal reform would also benefit the equity market and the creation of mutual
funds.
9.           Prdvatzation, which began early In Tunisia (in 1987), is one area where progress has been
slow. Up to now, progrm management responsibility had been diffused by dense and complex
institutional arrangements which were Inended to ensure transparency and public acceptance of each
transaction. So far 39 cases of prvatizaon bave occurred, mosdly of small, loss-making firms. There
still remain about 190 fims with State majority holdings and many more with the Stae as a minority
shareholder. In December 1992, the Govenament strngthened the management responsibility in order
to reactivate its privatzaton program. In February 1993, a large profitable enterprise was sold through
the Tunis Stock Exchange to a group of local investors. Some thirty large and profitable enteprises have
been slated for early divestitre in this new phase.
10.          The above stabilization and structural adjustment reforms have been supported by the
Bank and the IM. Bank support has been in the form of six adjusment loans, of which five have been
closed or had all trnches released. The second and third tranche releases of the sixth and most recent,
the Economic and Fhiacial Reforms Support Loan (EFRSL) are expected in June 1993 and January
1994, respectively. After succeflly completig a Stand-by Arrangement with the IW  in May 1988,
Tunisia entered into an Extended Arn_gemnt in July 1988. he programunder this facility, which was
extended to a fourth year in July 1991, was successfully completed in July 1992. Coordination between
the Bank and the IMF has been excellent.
LEmpac of the Prgrm
11.          Tunisias economic performance since 1986 has combined sustained macroeconomic
adjusmen wit significat growth. The current account deficit of the balance of payments was brought
down from 8% of GDP in 1986 to 4.7% in I992. The budget deficit was reduced from 5.5% of GDP
to 2.6% over the same period (see Table 1). Infladon has averaged around 7% during the period and
was down to 5.4% in I992. Man     d     exports have grown rapidly over the last few years prior to
the recent slow-down of the world economy. GDP growth has averaged over 4% in real terms, with an
exceptional growth of 8% in I992 facilitated by good weather and a rebound in tourism. The lower
current account deficits, coupled with steady exportled growth and a prudent external debt strategy have
allowed debt indicaors to improve sysematically: the ratios of debt to GDP and of debt service to
exports declined from about 70% and 28% in 1987 to 53% and 23%, respectively, in 1992. Unlike
many other counries in similar circumstances, Tunisia was able to avoid debt rescheduling.



-4 -
12.            The abity to weather the nitial talization and the lae exogenous shocs (the drught
of 1988-89 led to relatvely large cereal imports, and the Gulf crisis resuted In a drop of 30% in tourism)
attests to the growing resilience and diversification of tho economy. In earlier years, such shocks had
caused larger drops in GDP. Admittedly the peormace was helped by eain circumstances, such as
the continued boom in Europe and a jump in the number of worLef  from within the region in 1988; but
the capciy to respond to favorable ci             was in great measure the fist fruit of the economic
reformn.
Iab*  C?OrWC TRPJ4D On
|_ 1 8045  [      11986   1197  1989  1989   19       1991     19
ODP  wlRate8                   4.2     -1.4      6.7      0.1      3.7      7.6      3.9     8.0
E3xsO Gowd Rates               0.6      S.2     13.4     21.4      S.0      1.8    -3.8    13.1
of Which Maavtdi              6.4     13.1     14.0     14.0     19.6     10.7      3.7     3.7
bJAIIW   k Rmat}               0.5    -2.1    -3.S       16.1     14.6      8.9      8.3    12.6
CoaaxmpU.Per capI              2.5     -.4      -1.2     -2.6      1.5      4.7      1.8     4.1
nlationRat                     9.6      5.8      7.2      63       7.4      6.8      8.2     5.4
To1  DODAPD?                  483      66.9    70.2      66.9     68.2     61.6     62.9    53.3
Total Det Sveuni              18.6     28.2    28A       21.9     21.9     23.9     24.0    22.9
Total DODIXOS                117.4    190.1    174.4    139.9    137.6    130.0    144.8   1243
Ovwnan  lDDlet/DP             -5.6     -5.5    -3.1      -3.6     -3.8     -3.8     -4.0    -2.6
Oaen Aoont/DP                 -7.9     4.0    -1.0        1.0     -3.3     -5.3     -4.4    -4.7
Rasout. BelenceIPD?8.4                 -7.3    -1.0       0.4     -3.9    -7.2       4.8    -5.8
Own Find Capal
Fo*j utiODP                   30.3     23.5    20.6      19A      22.6    26.4      23.3    25.9
Dfr.o FOI JuSWAtaa
(US$ mSoN)                  262.5    155.0    92.3    110.2    144.2    185.2   -164.0   167.0
~~~~~~~~~~~  .  _,    ,                        1,       II               -1 . _    _XW
13.            A strikg feature of the Tutdsian adjusent story is that, even in the most stringent
times, the major social objectives were maiaied. For example, when the budgetary difficulties forced
the country to cut food subsidies in half, the authorities improved the targeting of subsidies to the very
poor, limiting the negative impact on thea. It is this emphasis on social development and equity that has
allowed Tunisia to bave social indicators comparable to those of many much wealthier economies. Life
expectancy is now almost 70 years, Infant mortality 44/thousands live births, and the total fertility rate
is down to 3.5 births per woman. Population growth has dropped to 1.7%. Tunisia has one of the most
impressive participation of women in all aspects of ecowmic and social life among the Arab and Muslim
countries. Adult litercy is 65%, and 92% of children of primary school age attend school. The
proportion of the populadon living below the poverty line Is estimated at 6.7%, and the distribution of
income is quite visibly less skewed tha in many comparable countries. Moreover, an extensive, if
somewhat cumbersome, system of socia protection provides almost all Tunisians health care and some
protection from extreme poverty.
14.            Following three years of abundant harvests, it will be difficult to maintain the same
growth rate in agriculture during 1993. This lower growth in agriculture, combined with the relatively



-5-
unfavorable market condtions in Europe is expected to translate Into a lower real growth rate of GDP
of about 3% durIng 1993, compared to an average of about 6.5% during 1990-92, though prospect
remain good for a sustaed grwth rate of about 5% after 1994.
15.          Whie the ongoing eonomic reform pogram Is on the schedule indicated in the countrys'
Five Year Plan, there are some emerg   problem  hat need to be addressed to avoid the achievements
so far from being jeopardized. First, the growth of man trig production, ewports and investment
(excluding agro-industry) dowed down during 1991-92. Second, workers' remittances also declined
during the same period. The external fctors responsible for these developments are mentioned later
(paras. 22-24). However, there were also other factors. The Tunisian Industry, especially the pat that
produces for the domestic market, is undergoing adjustment to cope with the reduction of quantitative
import restrictions under the Bank's ongoing EFRSL. At the same time, the real effective exchange rate,
after falling through 1990, started to rise, regiteing a cumulative increase of about 5% through June
.         1992.
16.          To avoid program slippages, the Government acted quickly in late 1992, by devaluing
the Dinar by over 10% and declaring the currency convertible for current account transactions and certain
capital transactions, such as repatriation of investments. Tnese measures should provide impetus to
export actvities and workers' remk:tances. ft also stresses the need for continuous vigilance of the
macroeconomic sit'ation (particularly in the absence of an IMF progrm) and for deepening the structural
reforms beyond the horizon of the EFRSL. Only with assured macroeconomic stability can the country
focus fully on the medium-term issues discussed in section D.
World Bank Gru
17.          Since 1962, IDA has committed 10 credits to Tunisia, amounting to US$75.2 million,
and the Bank has committed 91 loans, totalling US$2.82 billion, both net of cancellations. As of
February 28, 1993, the sector share of the Baks commitments was as follows: agriculture 11.7%;
industry and energy 16.5%; transport and urban infrastructure 28.6%; social sectors 10.4%; and non-
sector (i.e. adjustment) 32.8%. The Bank began adjustment lending to Tunisia in FY87 and, with the
progress toward sustainable macroeconomic balances, it has been phasing it out. Of the six adjustment
operations, four were sectoral and two structural. In agreement with the Government, the ongoing
EFRSL, which was approved in December 1991 and whose third and final tranche is expected to be
released in early 1994, is expected to be the last adjustment operation in Tunisia, barring very exceptional
circumstances (see paras. 56-57).
18.          The Bank's portfolio in Tunisia is generally in good condition.  Accumulated
disbursements for the 30 projects currendy under supervision amounts to some 90% of appraisal
estimates. The overall rating of the portfolio is one of the highest among Bank borrowers, particularly
in the agriculture sector. Some implementation problems were encountered during FY90 and FY91,
mainly as a result of the impact of the Gulf crisis on the economy, which translated into shortages of
counterpart funds and delays in saopting appropriate tariff policies. However, these problems have been
largely resolved. Despite the generally good performance, it is possible to improve the status of the
portfolio even fiuther and actions are planned (see para. 34).
19.          To date IFC has completed 18 projects in Tunisia in a variety of sectors, Including
manufacturing, mining, tourism, textiles and financial services. During fiscal 1993, IFC expects to make



-6-
investmeots in two projects, consistng of the Cercina oil and gas development project, with a total project
cost of US$215 million, and Mddal Sanitaire, a project to manufacture ceamic bathroom and kdtchen
fixtures, wkh a total cost of US$S1 ilion.  the recent past, IC's role as an investor in Tunsla was
limited due mainly to adimaere local lending rates, Govement control over key sectors of the
economy, and genealy low levels of forign and local private sector investment. However, as the Dinar
becomes fully convertible and the privatzatlon program   es ffect, the climate for private sector
investment shodd imprve sWficay. IFC expect to have an increingly important role to play in
encouraging privat Investment, particulady by foreign investors. IFC also expect that it will play a
maor role in asistng in the development of capital markets through the creation of specialized financia
institutions.
20.          MIGA is cuntly preparing an insurance project to cover a major foreign investment
In the hydrocarbon sector in Tunisia. This project, the first MIGA projeLt in Tunisia, is planmed for
presentation to the MIGA Board in late FY93.
21.          Finally, FIAS prepared a report on Tunisia entided: "Foreign Investment Promotion'
in October 1991. The report was witten at the request of, and in cooperation with, the Tunisian Industry
Promotion Agency.  It covers:  () the present business dimate for foreign investors, and
(ii) recommendatons on the dcsign of a new investment promotion policy to diversity foreign investmnet
and eliminate the existing sepatation between totally export-oriented activities and those directed to the
local market.
C. Ena 
22.          Tunisia is relatively well insulated against certain types of external shocks. Oil price
movements have little net effect on the balance of payments because exports and imports of oil and oil
products roughly balance. Debt servicing is not sensitive to interest rate movements because over 70%
of its debt is at fixed intrest rates, something that will change ondy gadually given that the average
maturity of the debt is over 16 years. However, the country is susceptible to other exogenous shocks,
notably regional tensions, dmughts and downturns In the world economy, especially the EEC.
23.          'Me effects of regional tensions and droughts have been experienced repeatedly, most
recently with the Gulf crisis. In the case of regional tensions, toursm is hurt most; tourism receipts
declined by about US$260 million in 1991 (a 30% decline in real tenrs) during the Gulf crisis. A single
year of drought has an effect on the value added, balance of payments, and the budget. Thus in the
drought years of 1986 and 1988, the value added in agriculture dropped by an average of about 18%
(agricultural value added accounts for roughly 12% of GDP), and resulted in average additional imports
of cereals of around US$40 million. However, a series of droughts, say for three or more years, could
have much more serious longterm consequences by having cumulative effects on the balance of
payments, on income and employment in rur  areas, and on resevoirs and aquifers. Such a calamity
camot be altogether discounted, but its probability is small.
24.          Tunisias economic perfomce is closely linked to developments in Europe, particularly
now that Tunisia has reduced its protection and made the Dinar parlly convertible. About three-quarters
of the exports are destined there. Workers' remittances, tourism receipts and foreign direct investment
emanate largely from Europe, especially France. Therefore, developments in the European economy



- 7 -
specifically ad world economy generally ae now increasingly transmitted to ihe Tunisian economy
directly and rapidly. The recent slowdown in mufacued expors gowth (about 6% in real tm
during 1991-93, compared to about 14% durin 1986-90) Is explained to a large ent  by the weakness
of the European economy. The Tunisian private sector Is also concerned thtu the frmer communist
countries of Europe will be give market preence by Westem Europe, Jeopardizing the special stas
of Tunisia with the EEC.
25.          Tne Tunisian private sector and the Governmt re responding to the political and
economic developmens in two ways. Pist, the Government has initiated preliminary discussions with
the Europen Community for a free-tde agemen aimed at fller economic inegraion with Eupe.
Concaurey, efforts are underway to diverfy markets, especily to North America and Japan (see
para. 52).
26.          While, as mentioned, Tunisia i relatiey Immune from developments in international
petroleum market it is affected by chag  in the phosphates markets, its other major commodity export.
Tunisia exports roughly US$500 million (about 12% of merchandise exports) of rock phosphate and
phosphatic fertilizers. The depressed prices for these products (international prices of DAP and TSP in
1993 are some 35% below the 1980 level in nominal US$ terms) are causing a severe economic and
flnmcial problem for the mining and chemical industries in the country. Since the phosphate-related
activities are located In an economically depressed part of the country, it has also created a severe social
problem. To deal with these and eironmental problems, the Govenmen has requested Bank support
for technical and possibly financial assistance (see para. 43).
D. tioxermmenft Dvlomt Poliedes and -Bank Agft Sb ate
27.          Beyond 1993, the Goverment's objectives can be stated simply as those of sustining
GDP growth rates averaging at least 5% a year (see Table 2), while spreading the benefits to all the
population and husbanding the country's fraie naturl resources. The growth objective is attainable with
a reasonable degree of confldence, but it is also the minimum for reducing unemployment from its
estimated rate of 15% with a labor force growing annually at 2.9%. It presupposes an improvement in
economic efficiency manifested in a fall in the ICOR to 4.0 - 4.5, as compared to 6.7 in the early 1980s.
A higher growth rate, in the 7-10% per annum range, would be necessary to absorb the unemployed in
a more forceful way. This higher growth rae is not inconcehiable given favorable external economic and
political environment but it would be impmdent to assume it.
28.          With the projected improvement in efficiency, the Tunisian economy will be able to
achieve its growth targets with a non-interest current account close to balancing and a gradual
improvement in its external debt indicators. Intenational financial markets and foreign direct investment
will contribute a large and growing part to exten  inflows as financing from official sources becomes
lower than in recent years. In 1992, Tunisia introduced itself to the finacial markets, after a long
absence, with a syndicated loan, and the relatively favorable terms - LBOR + 1 1/8% for five years -
- augur well. The Government is exploring the possibility of obtaining a rating and is expected to
approach recognized rating agencies as soon as it has removed the one remaining major weakness in its
extermal debt management, the dispersion of debt data over several parts of the Government.



-8-
I Zblg: ECONOMIC TRENDS On %)
________________________              1993       1994      _   9        1996       97-2001
GDP Gowt Rales                         3.0         4.1         5.3        5.4         5.8
BXode Grwth Rates                      6.9         7.1        -2.1'       5.3         7.2
Of Which ManuMudnI                    9.9         8.5        8.9         9.0        10.0
Import.rowb Rat                        4.2         6.6        -1.9t       6.7         8.0
Consumption per Capits                 0.6         1.1        2.7         3.9         3.9
Inliation Rate                         5.7         5.5         5.5        5.5         5.5
Totl 1DDI/GDP                         S3.5        53.S        52.0       50.2        42.6
Total Det SenvieXGS                   20.0        17.6        16.4       15.8        1S.8
Total DOD/XGS                         119.4      1153        113.4      108.0        86.6
Goveomnent Defot/ODP                   -3.2       -2.3       .0.9        -1.5        -1.4
Cuaiet AoooutGDP                       -3.8       -3.4       -2.1        -2.1        -2.1
ResouoeBahnoeIODP                      -4.6       -4.3        -2.9       -3.0        -2.9
Gross Fied CapitalonitiolGDP          24.8        25.2       2S.6        25.6        25.6
Dire Foreit P lvment
(US$ mnioi) .)                       242.0       263.8       292.8      32S.0       444.5
at     The deoline Ipor mand mports in 1995 refect any indo prducdon of a now onl rfiey, esulng in a decline
in the export of crude ofl and Impots of refined prodcts.
29.          'De Govet's development objectives, as emnciated In the Eighth Five Year Plan
(1992-1996), esentally ewision completion of the change in the economic management paradigm stated
in the mid-1980s. Tne prmary focus of economic  nagment is epected to move from  stabilization
and adjustment to post-adjuent issues of restoring sustainable growth, Increasing competiton,
Wating private invesmet and better intgring the economy into the world markets, especially the
EEC. In this scenario, 1992-3 ae esLentaly viewed  transition years.
Ban Assidc &
30.           The Bans strategy reflects this shift in focus, and is built on five main pillars. The first
priority i to help the           I e nreaingly play the leading role in an outward-oriented economy.
Second, to help ensure that the PjiIkj *-public administration as well as public sector institutions
at large-adapts to the new environment and plays a more supportive, instead of controlling role, toward
the private sector. ThWid, to suppor T s long standing emphasis on the Wial sectors and poverty
alleon but with greater emphasis on the financial viability of the social prov. ion system. Fourth,
to support the prtcdon ad better management of the county's fragile na- dl resources and the
gnilrgnu, especially its scarce water resources. Finaly more atention will be given, at the request
of the Governmee, to the extemal economic in     n of Tunisia into the world markets. An over-
arching aspect of these five pillars of the Bank's strategy is that, unlike in the past when the primary
beneficiaries of Bank support were the Government and the public entities, in the future increasingly the
main beneficiary will be the private sector, particularly in industrial, agricultural and financial sectr
actives. Support In the social and ifstrucue seors will, however, condtiue to be channelled
through public entities, ldthough even here an increasingly larger role is foreseen for the private sector.



9 -
31.          In terms of lWn isuments, there will be a major shift away from adjustment lending.
During the last sv  years, adjustmet lending accounted for about onehird of the Bank's lending. No
new adjustet leng is foresen,  cept under vey speck 4rcunces (see paras. 56-57), with the
burden of Bank  ateWing caied by sector investment and project loans.
32.          To support the proposed lending straeg, a progrm of focussed E    is planned, which
is directly linked to the now operadons. The four 'flagships' of the planned ESW, which support four
of the five pillars of the Bak's strategy, are the Private Secoor Assessment, the Poverty Assessment, the
Public Sector Magement Study, and the Water Resoum Management Study.
33.          Aside from substaial technical assistance and insfitution-building components in several
projects, the Bank's strategy iolves fre-standing            financed to the extent possible
by grat funds-to address key issues such as privadzation, facilitating a free-tr2de agreement with the
European Community, speeding up Tunisia's access to international capital markets, etc.
34.          To continue the recent progress in aguliomanaentacountry portfolio performance
review (CPPR) Is scheduled for ery FY94. In addition to tackling issues specific to a few projects with
modest problems, the CPPR will focus on two county-wide areas selected to improve the quality of the
entire portfolio and to improve quality at entry of fitumre projects. The first involves putting in place
mechanisms to solve the remaning generic problems. For example, in response to the problem of
inadequate budgeting of counterpart funds, the CPPR would aim to set up a systematic annual review of
Finance Law provisions during the preparation cycle to ensure that counterpart funds are fully focusing
on 'problem' projects, with a view to restructuring or cancelling thiem if impediments cannot be removed
punctually. Second, systematc effort would be made, joindy by the Government and the Bank, to draw
lessons from the experience of previous projects in designing new ones. A good example of this is the
workshop held in Tunisia in July 1992 to reflect on regional development and poverty alleviation issues
of the Northwest Region, the least developed in Tunisia. The workshop was atended by representaives
of the Govemment (cental and local), communities and associations, NMOs and several donors. The
workshop, in which the Bank played an important role, resulted in the Identification of key constraints
and measures to deal with them In particular, the workshop fully endorsed the participatory approach
to the design and implementation of strategies and proj=s, the first of which will be the proposed
Nczthwest Mountainous Region Development Project (see para 48). Whenever appropriate, other new
projecu will also be subjected to the same discipline.
35.          The proposed assistace strategy in each of the five areas of primary focus is elaborated
on in the following parapbs and illustraed schematically in the matrix on the following page.



OBJECTIVES AND INSTRUMENTS OF COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY, FY93-FY97
O      BJLz                                     ExGOS  TO mut                                                        PUTOR QIIS
A. Development of an efficient             The mcroconom±c environmet has ben improvod                The Privete Sector Assessment (PSA) with M, partUcIpation WIl
and export-oriented private               thrug  the Bk-sutpported strtutraL  dJustsnt                review key constraints to privae sectr dfeat-v mnt. gS  on
sector.                                   process. 1roducer prices have been freed.                   finacial and capital markets, and anvireonintas Qad
Restritiaons on private caqetitiom  with publie            infrastructural aspects of tourLem vi4U folLow.
antaxpriaeo hawe been Uftad (notably with regard
to milk and agricultural input production and              Ibe industrial Finae and Rural Finnnce loons will provide lines
distribution). Prudential regulation of banking            of  rerdit to further strengthbn the booking system ed to Wrote
bha been improved,                                         enterprise restructuring in lne with naw policy enviroment.
Possible housing and eadestre lendins wll assist In the rnoval
of ewstraints en private low-cost bousinw   constructln.
_loyment ad traininv  and secondary edUation project wll
improve the quality of the lar force and lncrease the rol of
the private sector in education.
B. improve the mmagement of                In conection with the Public 8nterprise Reform             Tb Public Sector Hanagesent Study nd the PM wilL identify
publie secto  re surces.                  Loan (PM), a new IS law end a system of                     measures necessary to adapt civil administration to a more
performance contract. were adopted. Thirty nine            liberalized and decentralised enviraoment.
lEa have bean privatised and anotbhr 30 large.
profit-making IS. are scheduled for divestiture in         A public administration nodessisattmn project sd a possible
the near future,                                           second wmecipal development project wtil provide support for
eivil odoinistration reform nd for the strengthening of local
govnnt..u 
TA to reommend solution to the econamic end tfiancial prdble
of the publiely-caned phosphate lndustry.
C. Continued emphasis on social           Food subsidies targeted through self-selection              Social Protoction Study med Poverty Asse'aent to identify
sectors and the elimination of            mechenian. Social indicatore compatible with                lmprovements in social protection system mad to prepare a strategy
pockets of poverty,                       those of mucb wealthier counoties. Only 6.71 of             fr  elimination of reaining pockets of poverty and to further
population below poverty line.                             sat mnce the role of wmn in the sconow.
A possible soial sector pro3ect, and projects in bealth,
employment and training, rural roads project aimed at social
security reform, improving targeting and effiel ncy of social
services, and d9eling with the worst remaining pockets of poverty.
D. Better managment of natural            Ministry for the Enviroment created; bank-                  A Water Resources Fanatement Study will address major eross-
resources and the environment             supported National Enviromuental Action Plan                sectoral issues and an update of the NEAP.will help reflie the
(SUP) developed in ISS.                                    environment agenda.
Lending and ESW will address demand management issues.
Forestry II and possible projeets in sewerage, environmental
management and agriculture will addrscs major enviromental
problem.
B. Better integration of the              Tariffs have been reduced to an average of 2as.             TA in support of  nelysis of potential free trade sgrament with
ecomoy in world markets.                  As a8reed under EFRSL, quantitative restrictions            the EC, of policies in support of trade diversification and aceess
are being gradually reduced and will be                    to international capital markets.
eliminated, except for a short list of strategic
items (accounting for less then 51 of GDP) before
the end of 1994. Currency convertibility has beeon
introduced for current account and many capital
account transactions.



- 11 -
Ed=  Sector       nSi
36.          Despite the recent marked positve shift In Govrnment attitude toward the prvate sector
and measures to support that shift, a substantal agenda for private sector development remains. nhe pace
of the privatiton particularly needs to be speeded up, and the Govenment has recendy requested Bank
support to faflitathe process. The policy envionment and the regulatory framework needs to be
adapted to the demands of a more dynamic private sector. Instiutional strenthening needs to occur,
especially In the areas of the stock exchange, accounting and auditing, and certificadon and control of
quality and other standards. Finally, investment in physical infrastructure is needed to alleviate
continuing bottlenecks to private sector development.   Bottlenecks include relatively poor
*        telecommunications, transport, water and sewerage services, some of which are already affectng private
sector activides, especially tourim
*         37.          The above issues are being addressed In the forthcoming Private Sector Assessment,
which is expected to serve as the centerpiece for a broad-ranging review involving the Government, the
prhiate sector and other interested parties. Following from this study, an operation in support of private
sector development is planned to address the outstanding policy and institutional issues, and to facilitate
privadzation of state enterprises and creation of private companies in industry and services.
38.          Financing in some areas, e.g., agriculture, exports, and tourism, has been constrained
by interest rates below the market (though above inflation), but these are being gradually phased out.
The new prudentW regulations are laying bare one of the principal legacies of the earlier inadequacies
of banking regulation, namely problem portfolios of bans. Under the program supported by the EPRSL,
the Government Is ddssing he Issue by requiring that all banks be audited according to interntional
norms and that bans that do not meet the current prudendal regulations adopt action plans to bring them
into conformity in a reasonable time. Action plans will comprise a mix of recovery of loans,
provisioning, additional capital, as well as strethening of the management, organization and staff skills
of the banks. An Industr  Fmance Loan, curently under preparation, will address these issues as well
as provide long term finance to private industry. In addition to providing lines of credit, the proposed
loan will provide technical assistance to banks to set up financW  work-out units, and to private
engineering and management consultants to strengthen their capacities to design viable restructuring
programs for manufacturing eneprises.
39.         In agriculture there is need for new mechanisms, notably Insurance for rainfed crops, to
reduce lending risks and to increase normal banking in ra areas. The possibilities of calamity
insurance will be explored under a rural finance project, whicb may include a pilot insurance program.
40.          The emphasis on banks as a source of finance and insufficient attention to banking risk
fostered the tendency of enterprise owners to avoid the use of equity issues and to retain control, even
at the cost of being highly leveraged. Hence the offers of equity that are needed for the bourse to
develop, now that it has been reformed, are still lackig. Gradually a supply of private equity wIll appear
as regulatory pressur  make babn less indulgent to their clients, but a more immediate source of equity
wfll be privazation. ITese isues are expected to be addressed in the proposed Financial Markets Study.
Depending on the findings of this study, a second private sector development project, aimed at developing
a more robust and competidive financial sstem, including capital markets, may be prepared.



- 12 -
Public Administration and Public Sector Resorces
41.          During the coming years, the public administration In Tunisia will need to undergo
profod changes and acquie   new skills to adapt Iself to a more liberaized and decentrized
envirounment. An example is the chaning naturo of banking rguation, which must shift from enforcing
economic objectives to ensuig adherence to prudential norms. At the same time, most of the personnel
involved In economic control functions that are beg eimi     will need to be given other functions and
to be retined. In net terms the growth in the number of employees in public service should slow down,
which in Itself will be a challenge in view of the level of unemployment. An Instittional Development
Fund grant will assist the creation of a body of expertise in international trading arrangements, and the
improvement of customs and port procedures, both to facilitate trade and to ensure that indirect exporters
benefit from the same advantages a eportes and thus integrate exports more fully into domestic
production. But the main dialogue on adapting the administrative system to its new functions would be
based on the Public Setor Mangment Stdy. Thb study and the Ed=  Stor Assesment would
serve as building blocks for a public ad on moderation project, aimed at providing a strong
private sector-oriented framework for administrative reform, such as eliminating anti-competitive
administrative functions, strengthening regulatory and promotion functions, and assisting the acquisition
of newly needed public sector skills.
42.          Twko recent trends that are likely to endure, cautious decentralization of Government and
emphasis on regional development, require a strengthening of the management of govemment financial
rources. Ihese resources are well administered, as seen from the absence of chronic arrears in cash
payments or large unused allocadons. Moreover public investment does not include big loss-making
projects as they did in the last years of Bourguiba's presidency. But some ministries, such as the
Ministry of the Interior, which oversees local authorities, have only reenty started to apply economic
criteria in sectoral areas. Familiarizing them with economic analysis techniques and using them more
widely will take time. Ihe same is true of the local authorities themselves, who have never had the
responsibility of managing significant resources and who lack the institutions for that. A possible second
municipal development project would continue support for decentralization by strengthening the capacity
of local authoriies to manage resources and provide services. It is expected to draw heavily on the
lessons of experience from the first such operation, presented to the Board in early FY93.
43.          The phosphates sector poses specW problems, both because of the sheer size of Its debts
and because of the regional problems it raises. Tunisian ores are low grade and European markets are
depressed becams of enironment concerns over high fertilizer usage, causing substantial losses in the
sector over time. However, there are few alternative income sources in the Gafsa region, where the
mines are. The debts of the phosphate chemicals conglomerate in Gabes, the Groupe Chimique, may
account for as much as 8% of Tunisia's banking assets. Faced with such problems the Government has
requested the Bank's assistance in finding a solution to make the company competitive in the context of
a changing global phosphate industry.
Social Sector and the Alleviation of Pvr
44.          The longstanding emphasis on social sectors has been possibly Tunisia's greatest asset and
must be prerved. Ihe official estimate of the Incidence of absolute poverty of 6.7% is lower than in
most developing counies; a system of social protection covers almost every citizen; and education is
available to all. Becuse of such policies and the equal rights of women in almost all matters, the



- 13-
participation of women in the labor force Is relatively high and the population growth rate has been
declining fiast.
45.          However, there are issues that still need to be addressed. Despite great strides in
eliminating poverty, pockets of poverty remain, especially in the Northwest region of the country.
Moreover, the threat to mntaining this emphasis on social sectors is that the growing budgetary burden
of social benefits could force cuts in the quantity and, even worse, in the quality of social security
services. A large part of the reason is that benefits, notably in health care, are not closely linked to
contributions. Consequently, there is a high rate of evasion, while the incentive for the social security
fnds, which run most of the schemes, to pursue the collection of contributions is limited by the
knowledge that the state will cover deficits. Or, as with pension fuids, there is little incentive to put
cnributions and benefits on an actuaial basis. This lack of incentive was worsened by the obligation,
until 1990, to invest in low yielding Treasury bonds and low-cost housing, thus depriving the funds of
most of the income from their resources. A similar burden on the budget arises from laying off workers
in public enterprises, since there is no unemployment insurance and severance packages, which are
negotiated case by case, are unfunded. In view of the magnitude of the actions needed for public
enterprises and also the adjusunents to be made by private firms, a limited unemployment insurance
scheme would have two benefits: it would facilitate agreements with workers on redundancies and it
would provide some funding.
46.          At the request of the Government, these issues were addressed in the recently completed
Social Protection Study, bich also included the experience of other countries with these issues. This
study, complemented by others being prepared by the Government, would lead to a broad reform of the
social security system, a requirement under the ongoing EFRSL program. It would also form the basis
for a social sector project, which would extend and deepen the initial reform of the social security system,
improve targeting mechanisms and increase the private sector's role in providing social security services.
A health sector project would extend the reforms of hospital management introduced under the recent
Hospital Management Project.
47.          The authorities are alive to the importance of education and training for a modern export-
oriesed economy and are attempting to transfom an education system that was good at providing general
education, but did not respond well to the needs of enterprises. A reform of primary education has
largely been completed. Reforms of technical training and schemes for apprenticeships (which also aim
to relieve youth unemployment) are under way. An employment and training project would follow up
on the recent project for an Employment and Training Fund to improve employment opportunities
through training and better job finding processes. It will also address some of the policy issues related
to vocational training such as makdng the playing field level on the supply side and increasing the role
of the private sector in determining and carrying out training.
48.          A comprehensive fvry  Assessment Stu&y is to be completed during FY94. Coupled
with the results of other studies being undertaken by the Government, this study will enable the
Government to prepare a strategy for improving the conditions of low-income groups, particularly of
women who are often the heads of household in this income category, as weUl as to defTne specific areas
for future Bank assistance. A project that will help alleviate the worst pockets of poverty in rural Tunisia
is planned for the Northwest region of the country.



- 14-
Nahra Reour  and te Envirome
49.          Over the long run Tunisia's development will be determined by how well it protects its
naural res        and environment. By the year 2010, all the known fresh water resources in the country
will have been put to use; dmad will have to be met from higher efficiency In water use, recycling,
and, in the last resort, through desalination. The husbanding of water resources also raises several
envionmental issues, such as presevig Lake Ichkeul, a stopping point for birds that migrate between
Africa and Europe; proteng aquifers from depletion and pollution; and preventing encroachment of
unusable waters Into usable aquifers. Tunisia is also losing productive land through defbration,
ploughing of marginal lands, and maintenance of too much livestock. Sedimentation aggravated by such
erosion has caused 30% of the storage capacity of dams to be lost Pollution arising from agricultural,
household and industria waste, especially from the phosphate industry, treatens water supplies and
coastal areas, while industrial emissions in certain towns are serious enough to cause health problems.
Tourism is a growing idustry and will soon create pressures to weaken zoning laws that have so far
protected the coast
50.          The Goverment has been well aware of these issues and in many ways is ahead of most
developing country governments on enviromnental issues. It has set up the administrative apparatus for
productive.collaboration on these issues. A national environment protection agency (ANPE) is an
executing agency and, more recenty, a Ministry for the Environment has been created. The basic
analysis has been done in a comprehensive Bank study. From this study the Government prepared a
National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) that was the basis for a donors' meeting in December 1990.
This was the first such meedng on environmental issues to be initiated and organized by a developing
country and donors responded with substantial commitments. ITe NEAP oomprises pollution control
emergency measures; nationa and sectoral level measur, including insiuon building and polity
formulation; technical assistance; and investment projects. Tunisia has ratified the Montreal Protocol on
Ozone Depleting Substances and is receiving a grant for phasing out CFCs. It is participatng in the
Mediterranean Regional Seas Project of the GEP, as well as being actve in the MEIAP with an initial
study on hazardous waste.
51.          The Bank will continue to help the Government address the issues, which are complex
and sensitive. The authorities have asked for Bank assistance in updating the NEAP in light of
developments during the past three years. By virtue of this and other analytical work, its own lending,
its continuing strong involvement in water and soil issues, and its responsibilities with regard to the GEF,
ME1AP, and Japanese Grant Facility, the Bank will support the authorities' efforts to reconcile diverse
interests and meet a wide afray of donor concens. The updated NEAP is expected to provide the basis
for directing future donor support to national priority areas as well as for formulatig a possible Bank
envionmental management projectthat would address broader, cross-sectorpolicy and institutional issues.
By maintining its central role in the development of water resources, the Bank would contie to ensure
coordination among the Govemment and the donors, as well as to address important issues. For example,  1
the Water Resource Management Study will assist the Government in developing a medium- and long-
term water resources management strategy, focussing especially on demand management, water use
efficiency, institutional aspects and technical issues such as waste water reuse and the management of
aquifers. The Bank's proposed lending for forestry, agriculture, and the above-mentioned environmental
management project would support soil conservation efforts. The planned municipal development and
seweage projects would address waste disposal.



- 15-
ESxternal Ecno&= legato
52.          Tuisia, li  neighborWg Morocco, has initiated discussions with the European
CommunitY for a Trade Paresp Agreement A major part of the Agreement, which is unlikely to
be concluded before 1994 and would probably be implemented over several years, will concentrate on
establishing a free or new-free trade zone. Such an agreement promises significant medium-term benefits
for Tunisia, particularly in the form of greater foreign direct investment and financial flows. Tbe Bank
supports eforts towatd closer Integtion with the Community, and will respond to the Government's
request to coordinate technical assistance (as in Morocco) to analyze the implications of an agreement and
designing suitable accompanying policy measures. The Bank will also respond positively to the private
sector and the Government to act as a catalyst for closer relations with other economic parters, most
notably North America and Japan. This non-leading technical assistance is an important instrument in
the post-adjustment period.
IBRD Lendgng Level
53.          As is clear from the above, while Tunisia has made remarkable progress, its unfinished
economic and social agenda is sizeable. The country's project implementaton capabilities and absorptive
capacity are high. Thaks to the Government's prudent management of its debt, the country is also
creditworthy. All these factos point to a high level of Bank involvement. However, because of the long
involvement of the Bank In the country and the magnitude of adjustment lending during FY87-FY9i,
Bank exposure Is relatively high (see Table 3).
Table: asntk Exposure Indicaors
1986      1993     1994      1995     1996    2001
Debt Savice to BMnW
Total Debt ServIcing           16.0      17.4     20.0      21.5     19.8     13.5
Debt Service to Prenefr C _ed
Tota Debt Sirvioig             19.6      33.8     37.2      40.7     40.2    25.5
Debt Sevicing to Danu/EotU      4.5       3.5       3.5      3.S       3.1      1.9
54.          The Bank's lending level during FY93-PY97 is, therefore, a compromise between the
objectve of continuing to support a country whose performance justifies a higher level, and the need to
gradually reduce the Bans exposure. ITe lending level is, therefore, expected to average about
US$250 milion a year for 34 project annuafly. Lending at this level would entail encouraging Tunisia
to pursue steps toward increased recoure to financial markets, and hence the critical importance of the
Bank's technical assistance In this area. It would also involve a more proactive role by the Bank in
identifying cofinancing possibilities. Already a great deal of cofinancing of Bank projects and aid
coordination by other bilatera and nmltilateral sources occurs: the European countries, individually and
through the EEC (mainly in environmental projects, coflnancing of adjustment lending and other related
activities); Japan (mainly cofTnancing the last two strucural adjustment loans); USAID (collaborates
closely with the Bank on agricultural issues and private sector development); the ADB and the Arab
funds. However, cofinancing options need to be examined even more systematically in the future.



- 16-
55.          With the propoe level of lending and greater role of cofinancing and inteatonal
capital markets, the Bks exposuwe i expected to decline graally after 1995 (see Table 3). In trms
of sectoral composition of the lending, a major shift i expected, compared to the last six years (see
Table 4). lbe main change is that adjustment lending (tuctwr  and sectoral) which acoounted for
almost 64% during FY87-92, will be phased out. Roughly 45% of the planned lending program will be
in support of pdvate sector activities in agdcdture, Industry, finance and other service.  Basic
infrastructure, and environment wil account for about 38% while human resouce development wfll
receive about 16 % of the lending share. Clearly this classification is somewhat arbitray since several
projects in agriculture and basic infrastructure are targeted to the poor and, therefore, have significant
social seCtor components.
Iin:Chwnging Composition of Dank Lending, FY5-PY97
FM -FM2                       Y93-PY7
A4dustmen Leding                                      64                           _
Investmt Leading                                      36                          100
Agrioultur                                           1                           13
Industry, Fiance, PSD                                2                           30
Eey                                                  S                            _
Infasbtucte                                         10                           27
Environment                                          1                           11
HuMnB Resourc                                       17                           16
PublcSector Management                                                            3
TOTAL                                                100                          100
Downside Risk and Contingeny Plans
56.          Essentially there are two types of downside risks, requiring quite different responses from
the Bank: (i) exogenous shocks in the form of drought-induced agricultural downurns and adverse
external shocks on foreign exchange earnings (for a discussion of these, see paras. 22-25); and
(ii) 'endogenous' country risks in the form of slackening of the Government's commitment to continue
the economic and development agenda.
57.          With regard to the exogenous shocks, severe balance of payments problems brought about
by regional tensions and prolonged drought would argue for the resumption, on an exceptional basis, of
structural adjustment lending in conjunction with a possible new IMF program. Without such assistance,
the Government's medium-term program could be jeopardized. As far as the "endogenous risk' is
concerned, the commitment of the Government to the refonn progrm has been consistently
demonstrated. However, should a loss of Government commitment lead to weaker macroeconomic
performance, perhaps because of political unrest or inability to reach consensus, the Bank's lending
program would be reduced to about US$170 miiion a year for about two projects, primarily in the
infrastrueture, envionment and social secors, aimed at poverty alleviation. In the contx of the BaRs
ongoing EFRSL, the Bank will continue to monitor the macroeconomic performance indicators agreed
to with the Government under the FRSL. These indicators are not performance creria, but deviations
from forecast values have served in the past as a basis for disussion between the Tunisian authorities and
the Bank on corrective measures. The indicators that we will continue to monitor relate to the viability



- 17 -
of the balance of payment, manufcured export permace, private sector access to resources, and the
viability of the goverment budget. Specfic indicatos are contained in the documentation of the EPRSL
(Loa P-S6-TUN).
E. Somm
58.          Bak presence in Tunisia has truly made a difference not only (perhaps not even mainly)
au fianci rurce tms but also in the shaping of consensus on key economic and social issues. The
Ban's policy advice is actively sought, and the policy-makers have skillfully used the Bank and the IM
to overcome domesdc resistace to reform. The competence, credibility and stability of our counterpart
team, their openness to new approaches and innovation, and the genuine desire to work with the Bank
bas clearly been a critical success factor In a relationship that dates back to 1962.
*         59.           There are no major contentious issues in the relationship with the Tunisian authorities.
Ihere is fil agreement on the five pillars of the Government's development strae  (private sector
development; improved public sector managemet; poverty alleviation; better management of natural
resources and the environment; and iation of Tunisia into the world markets), and on the Bank's
assistance strategy and Instruments to support these objectives. Perhaps the only miror irritant in an
otherwise excellent relationship is the limit on the maximum size of the lending program. However, as
already indicated, this level is a compromise between the Bank's concerns with its exposure and support
to a country with demonstrated absorptive capacity for the Bank's financial and technical assistance. Tne
proposed Bank lending averaging about US$250 million per yea, would help the country in its transition
to a fully liberized, socially balanced, and private sector-led economy.  As indicated earlier,
privatization is one area where progress has been slower than anticipated, and is an area where the Bank
intends to monitor progress. Should progress in this area and other areas of reform (see para. 57) be
significanty slowed down or, worse still, reversed, the Bank will adjust downward the size of its lending
program. On the other hand, if the implementation of the economic reform remains on track and the
country is hurt by a severe exogenous shock (see paras. 56-57), the Bank would consider structural
adjustment lending on an exceptional basis. Under this scenario, the lending level would increase
accordingly for that fiscal year.
11. THE PROPOSED QRZBQIE
Link  aget the CouSy Stroatg Assistance Smtraeg
60.          In response to structura adjustment reforms implemented over the past several years, the
agricultural sector is becoming more flexible In responding to market opportunities. The problems of
resource-constrained rural areas, such as poverty, lack of job opportunities for rural youth, and general
problems of natural resource degradation continue to evade solutions of policy makers. The country
assistance strategy for the agricultural sector has identified a number of key challenges for addressing
these problems. Lending instruments are being added to the portfblio that will address these problems
and emphasize sound management of natral resources.
61.          More specifically, these strategic targets began to be built into the successful first Forestry
Development Project (Loan 2870-TUN), and the Government is strongly interested in continuing along
this path with the Bank. The Bank's assisan  is especially sought in consolidating and expanding the



- 18-
forestry sector. Ihe proposed Second Forestry Development Project fits well In the country assistance
strategy outlined in Part I above, and addresses three aspects of that strategy: 0) better mamagement of
Tunisia's natural resources and the environment; (1i) Improvement of the social conditions of the poor
populations dependent on foresty reources; and (ii) encouragement of a larger role for the private sectc 
through the promodon of investment, and involvement of local communities.
62.          Ite Tunan foresy s Jsta   has focused on incrasing wood production, fighting
erosion, conserving the nation's forest heritage, and Improving the soclo-economic conditions of
population in forest areas. Substaial effors are being made to increase the efficiency and value of wood
production, to prevent deforestation, to conserve natr  babitats and to inhibit uncontrolled hunting.
Tunisia's diverse flora and fauna, including some globally tratened species, are also benefitting from
an increasing number of national parks and reserves. In addition, effiors are being made to generate
income eaning opportunities for the forest population. The constraints hampering the fuil implementation
of this strategy are more institutional and social rather than technical. Special emphasis needs to be given
to the participation of local population in planning, executing, and operatng forestry development and
conservation programs, for example to reduce human and cattle pressure on forest rangelands and to
assist forest regeneration. The private sector also needs to be increasingly brought into the harvesting
and processing of forestry products. The Forestry Code of 1988 focuses on measures to promote forest
conservation, defines the national forest domain, specifies the rights of foresty users (about 800,000
people), promotes rangeland development and establishes rules for environment and wildlife protection.
Although substantial progress has been made in this strategy under the First Forestry Development
Project, more needs to be done to sustain the gains and make furher advances on the institutional front.
63.          In Tunisia, there are about 370,000 ha of natural forest and 290,000 ha of forest
plantations. The total value of production of the sub-sector is estimated at about US$110 million,
7 percent of the gross agriculture product or almost 1 percent of GDP. Industrial wood production has
risen significantly in recent years, but is only about 40 percent of the potentW and only 50 percent of
current demand. The deficit is met by imports worth about US$110 million per year. Available fuel
wood could meet demand regionally, but is not located where needed. Ihis results in unbalanced use
which in urn poses a threat to the environment. The forestry component of the Seventh Development
Plan (1987-1991) has mostly attained its physical goals. However, Tunisia still confronts forest loss in
some areas. The Government has embarked on an ambitious program (1990-2000) comprising
reforestation, anti-desertification measures in the arid South, fodder plantation, range management, and
soil and water conservation works. A part of this Program will be implemented under the Eighth
Development Plan (1992-1996).
64.          Pect Objves. While augmenting production to meet a growing demand for wood
products and addressing acute environmental pressures, the Project would promote sustainable integrated
development and management of the Tunisian forest resources with the active involvement of the forestry
population and the private sector. Specifically the Project would: (a) augment the environmental services
provided by forests, including reduction of soil erosion and increased water retention; (b) improve social
conditions of the poor populations dependent on forest; (c) intensify quality wood production when and
where this is sustainable; (d) develop forest rangelands te i6eiue grazing pressure on the forests; and (e)
preserve the country's nature and wildlife heritage.
65.          Project 2ecriptin. The Project has the following components: (a) Forest Mananement:
Preparation of management plans covering 85,000 ha across sites selected for environmental services and



1 19-
production potental, executdon of forest Infrructure (roads, firebreak, housing, observation towers),
aisted regeneaion of 19,200 ha of Aleppo pine and cork oak forest, and sylvicultural works (thinning)
over S2,000 ha of natr forest and of plantations of pine, cypress, and eucalyptus; O) f1=WJ=:
Etablishment of new planions (2,400 ha) in the National Forest Estate (NME), 4,100 ha of stream
bank plantations for riparian protection, 500 ha of plantations on private farmand, and establishment and
Improvement of nurseries; (c) Foret Pasture and Range Improvent reduction of graing pressure on
forest resources over about 14,000 ha, through the establishment of new prairies (1,550 ha), fodder
plantatons (7,1SO ha), rangeland improvement (2,350 ha), cactus plantations (1,5SO ha), and pasture
rebabilitation (1,400 ha); a training and technical assistance program would help implementing the
component; (d) Wlood Ewi1itation nd Yahe Enhancement Studies on the wood processing, secondary
forest products, and traing on wood exploitation and processing; (e) National Parks and Reserves:
Improving management and strengeing equipment of national parks and reserves and providing means
to control and protect wildlife; (M) E Rea    Project related applied research programs with
special emphasis on wood value enhancement and environmental impact of forest activities; and (g)
InstiutiowlW Development and Pilot Operations: Strengthening the Forestry Deparnment (DGF) and the
regional Government agencies (AF) and assing them in implementing the Project, including the setting
up and operation of intgrtd forest pilot operations with Non-Governmental Agencies (NGO) assistance.
66.          Poect-CL    aind-Financing. Over the six year implementation period (1994-1999), the
total cost of the Project is estimated at US$148.1 million with an esfimated foreign exchange component
of US$53.9 million or 36 percent of the total Project cost. The cost esfimate includes taxes and duies,
toting US$25.4 million or 17.2 percent of total Project cost. The loan would cover the foreign
exchange component of the Project investment cost, excluding the firewood study financed by the Banque
Africaine de D6veloppement, (US$50.9 million), and a part of the local investment costs (US$18.1
mi-llion) corresponding to the mechanized soil preparation for the plantation component of the Project.
The balance of finds required would be financed by Government and Project beneficiaries. Participation
of Project beneficiaries, estimated at US$4.2 million equivalent, corresponds to the cost of maintaining
prairies, pastures, plantations on private agricultural land, and windbreaks established under the Project,
and to the repayment of part of investment costs for these plantations and windbreaks. The Bank loan
would cover 46.6 pect of Project costs (56.2 percent of Projects costs net of taxes). A breakdown of
the costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement,
disbursements categories, and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key
project processing events and the Saus of Bank Group Operations in Tunisia are given in Schedules C
and D respectively. A map is also attached, as is the Staff Appraisal report No 11618-TUN, dated
March 29, 1993.
67.          Acio  agcad. Government agreement has been obtained on the following main
actions/issues: (a) approval of the decree foreseen in the Forestry Code (PC) referring to the conditions
for granting authorizations to exercise the right to use the National Forest Estate (NFE); (b) approval of
the decrees also foreseen in the FC referring to the constitution, organization, by-laws, and operation of
the Forestry Associations of Collective Interest (AFIC), and to the execution of works by the AFICs;
(c) provision of adequate investment incentives to the private sector in the forestry sector, and preparation
and implementation of a plan of action to increase and enhance the role of the private sector in forestry
development; (d) approvl of the decree foreseen in the FC referring to the conditions for authorizing the
temporary occupation of the NFE for sylvo-pastoral development; (e) the execution of plantation or
regeneration programs that require closing to ranging would be subject to prior information, consultation,
participation and agreement of the interested populations. As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed



-20-
loan, Government would: (a) submit to Its Chamber of Deputies proposed legislation necessary to ensure
the establishment and operation of a system of financial assistance aimed to develop the country's sylvo-
pastoral resourcs, encouage the private sector participadon in actvities of exiancement of forest and
pasture value and improve the social and economic conditions of the forestry population; (b) reorganize
the ProJect Man ent Unit (PMU) by establishing five units, and providing additional staff to
strengthen i; and (c) finalize Identification of areas for the 10 Inegrated rural development pilot
opetions.
68.          Emir nmn. The proposed project has been reviewed in accordance with the provisions
of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, -Environmental Assessment0 and placed in envionmental
screening category B. It does not require preparatiop of a full environmental assessment, although
environmental analysis is required. The Project would contribute to environmental conservation through
regeneration of indigenous forest and expansion of forest cover, improved protection and management
of forest resourcs, reduction of erosIon by wind and water, improved biodiversity conservation, and
better control of wildlife and of hunting practices.
69.          Benefits. Project plantations would protect delicate soils from erosion and loss of
productivity and reduce silt in rivers flowing from the project area, thereby helping to reduce premature
sedimentation of the hydrological infrastructure. Project plantations would also help prevent continued
deserdfication, improve the country's micro-climate, and act as carbon sink for CO2 emissions. On the
social side, the project would generate employment and incomes for the poorest secdons of the population
living in the forest areas, an important pat of which would benefit women. Also, pilot operations would
identify and promote the role of women in forest management with the help and involvement of local
NGOs. In addition to employment, quantifiable benefits of the project include increased and higher
quality wood production and foreign exchange savings. The internal economic rate of return for the
Project as a whole has been estimated at about 13 percent. This rate is satisfactory, and it is even more
so given the strong positive, but non-quantfiable, environmental impact of the Pruject.
70.          Risks. No major or unusual technical risks threaten the success of the Project. The
Project objective of getting the private sector Increasingly involved in forest improvement might be
compromised, however, by the possible reluctance of entrepreneurs to participate in a programn that better
exploits forestry resources and enhances the value of wood production. The Project would emphasize
training, demonstration programs and especially applied research on the enhancement of the wood's
value, all of which would help to reduce this risk. Similarly, sustainabDlity of forestry development
programs depends on the receptiveness and active participation of people living in the forests. In the
Project, any investment program in forestry development (plantations, regeneration, rangeland) would
be preceded with consultation, participation, and agreement of the interested populations in those
development programs and therefore it would diminish this risk. In addition, the Project would give
furither incentive for private participation by seeldng the full application of the Forestry Code.



- 21 -
71.                        . I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and reommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
April 16, 1993



*22 -
Local   Forgn   Towt
-ciss rilo)
Vdides and eqipmt                           2.0        2.8     4.8
Platations snd sylicultoual worbs          57.1       32.6    89.7
Constuctions and civi wrs                   2.4        2.5     4.9
Traning, tectica assistance and pilot project  5.9     4.0     9.9
Inrmental operat  costs                     3.4        1.9     5.3
Total Ban Costs                         70.8       43.8   114.6
Physical wnnncies                     7.1        4.4    11.5
Pri  coingencies                     16.3        5.7   22.0
Toal ProJect Costs                      94.2 Ia    53.9   148.1
la _nldn USS2S.4 millon of um and dti
Eladul                                                    __
Local  Foreign   Tow)
-Us$ mUSllon-
World Bank                                 18.1   50.9    69.0
Affican Developmet Bank                      -      0.7      0.7
Boneficiaries                               4.2      -       4.2
Governmet                                  46.5    2.3      48.8
Net project Costs                        68.8   53.9    122.7
Taxes and Duoies                         25.4      -      25.4
Total Ptojectosts                        94.2   53.9    148.1



23                                    ISk - Io
Pag l of 2
PROCURENENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ milioa equivaln)
friuumn Mdthod          *       Fbl
PwjeclE*nent                                    ICR      LCB   LS/A   Odher  N.B.F Cat
1. Works
1.1 Land clearing and soil praation           42.63           13.12                 55.75
*                                            (38.65)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&  Alo)          (4&)73)
1.2 Planting, tending                         4.40   20.25   18.04   2.39 /a        45.08
.0       .8   ('J."       (-)         (6.83)
1.3 Sylvicultural works                               15.00   3.70                   18.70
1.4 Buildings and minor worko, roads and flrbk        5.69   0.40   0.09/b           6.18
P               (O."          0.04 .
1.5 Intgrd  Pilot Prjects                                             7.27 /c        7.27
(7.           (7.27
2. Goods                                         2.46    0.60                           3.06
2.1 Vehicle  trctors and implments            (1.73)  (942)                          (2.14)
2.2 Machines and equipment                     2.06    0.45                          2.51
(1.4)  (O."                           (1.7)
3. Consutant                                                              0.79          0.79
3.1 Training                                                          (979)          (.79)
3.2 Technical  a_, studies                                             3.39   0.69   4.08
(3       (-)  (33
4. Incremental Staff and Opwaet  Costs                                    4.66          4.66
(-)          C-)
TMuJ                                       S1.SS   41.99  35.26    18.59   0.69 148.08
(4235  (aM     (S.78)  (11.49    (-)  (69.0
Note:   Figurs in pareseat ethe rpectveamounts financod by the Daok loan. N.B.F.- NatBl -Rnwed Work
and Goods dAud be p_ctd In acoance wih World tBan      dW    naonter-IM    god MA
OCetsA  rWasnu,  D.C. May 1992) and Seca Aoeld be procre in acconce wth World Bank,
GuddeUna : Use of C_oa   by World Rank Bwro   and by World Bank at Exeuting Agency
(Waingfon, D.C. Aaugswt 1981)
/a Mainaining rangland, paues and prWaides would be t direct rpnsibility of beneficiaries;
/b To be executed by DC with STE  (SocUt Tu4nske  deJtcicit et da Gta.):
/c Special contracbs to be signed with N s.



-24-
Schul B
Page 2 of 2
Dhsbui_nut Cateoes
Caiey                          Amount of  % efsrpntw  to
kn alocat      befinane
(Us$ Mml o)
1. Civil ww*, budings, toads, fi_bradm               3.2      50 %
2. Meanlad sil prparation for _eorttion              36.2      100 %
3. Forestry works Inlding mal soil                   13.5      20 % of local and 100% of
prepsfmtln planting, tinnig, and tAndn and                   foreign eXPenuttu
exclaig mechzld soil ppai  for
reformdation
4. Equipment, vecls and matedals                     4.0       100 % of foreg eedtures,
100 % of local expenditum
(ex-fatory coet), and 70 % of
local  pedites for item
prcud locally;
S. Consultats' sevices id tiing                       4.8      100 %
6. Pfilot operion                                    7.3       100 %
Tota                                          69.0
Dsurseen Schdul
(US$ million)
3RD Fiscat Year
1994    195  1996  1997  1998  1999   20          2001  2002
Annal                 1.0      S.0   8.31   13.8  12.4  13.8   11.0    2.8   1.4
Cuulatie              1.0      6.9   15.2  29.0  41.4  55.2   66.2   69.0  69.0



-25S
Schedule c
REPtlI C OF  l
imeable etof key pocessing events
(a)    Time taken to prepare                     14 months
(b)    Prepared by                               Government and FAO/CP
(c)    First Bank mission                        May 1991
(d)    Appraisal mission departr                 November 30, 1992
(e)    Negodations                               March 16-19, 1993
(t)    Planned date of efectiveness              September 30, 1993



i;~~ l8$8S88 fg                                                   g
@,i         fias            }}}}}lif0s'#iil 
38     §         ii s   X X XX f    l §s§ } 
X   t %%t ZZ}S %%   %  %     % % % B % %      3  
I g         I  E   llllhlllliIrnlllilllh§l            Ii i



- 27 -
dsosvelappmelam
_2dS1
YAK   0      7lu     Tedlsd                               lft   1a!
ISM  Sodesftane              .                       ao hho 
1W     dwsd                                          1.     0       .
1637   COMETI UAhM Ia.B7  Dw bgasnln bnm-                   0.4 00
lOW beoW desamElet      Tanm                     La&Pbre84  8.3    74.6
m-rd
t ftrioFAkdhmbh             Tmendlsee               1040    W        4W.
low    Aftp$A  PhoMaeadWS              gm.t9     m    2At
* ~    ~       ~      -_ @
Dam mat hh. eUputs
lo  O       OEM W Owf
dTOnd elOMMOO011 ^ 
soitWdd                             --RMN   14t      LIS  its
dh~ _ribn                                  14.0           14J0
Om not bbxl pdb_S



Tunisia: key Nacroeconemic Indicators
1988    1989   1990    1991   1992    1993    1994   194S   196    1997   1998    1999   2000   2001
......................................................................................................... .............................................................................................................., 
GOP Growth                        0.1t   3.7%   7.6X   3.9%   8.0X    3.0%   4.tX    5.3%   5,4%   S.4"    5.6X    S.7%   S.9X    5.9S
ODY Growth                       -1.4"    3.3X    7.8X    4.21   6.5X    2.9%   4.2%    7.1%   6.0%   5.7%   5.7%    S.7%   6.9%   6.0%
SbY/pita Growth                  -3.7%    0.9%   S.6%    2.11   4.4%   0.9%   2.1%   5.0%   3.9X    3.7X    3.6"    3.61   4.8%   4.0%
Consaption/Capita Growth         -2.6X    1.5X   4.7%    1.8X    4.1t   0.61    1.1%   2.7%   3.9%   3.7X    3.5%   3.5%   4.8X    3.9X
0P Deflator Growth                8.SX    7.3X    5.7%   6.8%    5.8%   5.7%   5.5%   5.S5       5.SX    5.5%    5.5%    S.5%    S.S%    5.5%
Dmstic Absorption Growth         10.2%    7.7%    5.7X    6.5X    7.0X    S.9X    5%   38    S.O%   5.2%   5.4X    S.SX    4.5X    5.3
Total Debt Service (mMll.US S) 1058.4  1103.8  1419.2  1374.2  1549.6  1494.2  1442.3  1433.7 1529.3 I79.3  2012.9  2139.9  2289.3  2375.8
Total Debt Service/X             21.9%   21.9%   23.9%   24.0%   22.9%   20.0%   17.6   16.4     S.8    16.7   16.8%   16.0% 15.4   14.3%
Total Debt Servlce/G0P           10.5%  10.8X  11.3%  10.4        9.8%    9.0%    8.2X    7.5%    7.3%    7.9X    8.1%    7.9X    7.7%    7.3$
Total DOD/GDP                    66.9%   68.2X  61.6X  62.9%   53.3X  53.5%   53.5%  52.0%   50.2%   47.6  44.9%   42.3%   40.1%   37.9%
Total DOD/ XGS                  139.9X 137.61  130.0%X144.8X  124.4%  119.4%  115.3%  113.4%  108.0%  100.5%  92.9%  85.7%   80.1%   74.1%
Gross Investmnt/0P               19.4%   22.6   26.4%   23.3%   25.9%  24.8X  25.2%   25.6   25.6%   25.5%   2S.6    25.61   25.6  25.7%
Gross Domestic Sevngsp/GD        19.8   18.6   19.1%  18.4%   20.1%  20.1%   21.0%   22.6   22.6   22.6X  22.6   22.7%   22.7X   22.8
Gross Natioal Svings/GDP         20.4   19.3%   21.1%   18.9%   21.2%   21.0%   21.8X  23.5X  23.5%   23.4   23.5%   23.6   23.5%   23.6%
Marginal Dometic Saving SY       -3.OX   3.3X   6.3X  34.2X   14.6   19.6   24.5%   32.2%   31.1X  32.9%   31.3%   28.6%   22.7   22.8%
Private Investment/GOP            5.3 t 18.1%   21.0%   17.7%  22.5X   9.8    20.7%   21.1%   21.1%  21.0X 21.6   21.6   21.6  21.7%
Narginal prfvate Saving IY       16.4    41.9X  12.8X  13.9%   24.8%  23.0%  23.3%   23.6   23.5X   23.2%   23.2%   23.SX   23.7X   23.5%
Private Saving/OP                14.9%   17.   17.0%   16.7X   1.7X    18.2X  18.61   19.1%   19.6      19.9%   20.2%  20.6   20.9X   21.2X
Publfe Investment/UP   1/         3.61    3.9%    4.9X    5.1%    5.0%    4.7%    5.0%    5OX   5.0%    5.OX   5X   5.0%    5.OX   5.0%
Public Savings/GoP    /           4.9X    1.0%    2.1%    1.7%    2.4X    2.0%    2.3X    3.5%    3.1%    2.7%    2.4%    2.2X    1.8%    1.6%
Ratfo of Pubtfc/Private invest  23.5X  21.61   23.3X  28.5%  22.2%  23.8X  24.1%   23.7%   23.7X   23.8%   23.2%   23.1%   23.1%   23.1%
ICOR SY                          7.8    7.8    6.1       4.5     4.1     3.8    4.0    4.4    4.2        4.7    4.3      4.2    4.1      4.t
Governeent Revnnueu/6P           30.0%   29.6   27.5%   26.1%   27.0%   27.4   27.0%   27.3X  27.9%   28.2%   28.7%   28.9%   29.0%   29.1X
Goverwment Expendi ture/GODP     33.6   33.4%   31.3%  30.1%  29.6   30.6%   29.3%   28.2%   29.4%   29.7%   30.2%   30.3%   30.3%  30.4
Government Deficit/DP            3.61   3.8X    3.8%   4.0%    2.61    3.2X    2.3%    0.9%    1.5%    1.4%    1.5%    1.3%    1.3%    1.3%
Exports Growth 2V               21.4%    5.0%    1.8X  -3.8X  13.1X    6.9%    7.1%  -2.1%    5.3X    6.2%    6.8%    7.1%    7.4%    7.7%
Exports/GDP                     41.9X   44.0%  41.8X  38.6   38.0%   40.1%   41.8%   41.3%  42.0%   43.0%  44.2%  45.3X 46.2X   47.4%
Imports Growth  2/              16.1%   4.61   8.9%   -8.3%   12.6%    4.2%    6.6   -1.9X    6.7X    6.7X    7.1%    6.9%   10.0%    8.0%
Ilports/GOP                     41.5%  48.0    49.0%  43.5%   43.8X  44.8%        .0% 44.2%   45.0%  46.0%   47.1X   48.2X  49.1  S0.3X
Current Account Deficit (USS)   96.5  -331.5  -660.6  .579.0  -743.6  -629.6  -601.0  -391.8  -435.0  -47.2  -520.0  555.8 -624.3  685.8
Current Account Deficit/U0P      -1.0%    3.3X   5.3%    4.4%   4.7%    3.8%    3.4X   2.1%    2.1%    2.1%   2.1%    2.1%    2.1%    2.1%
Net of Interest CAD/GDP          5.0%    0.9X   -1.7X   -1.1X   -1.4%   -0.7%  -0.4%    0.8%   0.7%   0.7%   0.5%    0.4%    0.3%    O.2X
Terms of Trade (1980.100)       86.1   85.5   85.0   84.5   82.1   82.6   83.2   85.8   86.9   87.6   88.0   88.1   90.3   90.8
................ .................................._ . .......... _............... .................................. ...........*....
1/ Public Sector is defined as Centrat 6overncent.
21 The declin, In 1995 to due to entry into productfon of a new oil refinery. Exports of crude oil and ifports of refined produtt dwtcfne.



Tunisia: Batance of Pawents: In millions of US Dollars
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
TOTAL EXPORTS GNFS              4480.9 5228.2 5095.1 5985.7 6694.4 7386.3 7887.1 8749.5 9770.5 10943.3 12274.2 13713.9 15449.3
GOODS FOB                      MO.6 3516.6 3709.6 4034.5 4457.8 4925.8 5209.3 5836.6 6581.4 7444.6 8435.8 9502.8 10814.8
NFS                            1550.3 1711.6 1385.5 1951.2 ?236.6 2460.5 2677.8 2912.9 3189.1 3498.7 3838.5 4211.2 4634.5
TOTAL IMPORTS GNFS              4881.8 6131.4 5732.6 6894.2 7468.9 8141.6 8448.1 9368.8 10430.9 11671.7 13053.3 14575.9 16384.0
GOODS FOB                      4079.2 5153.5 4898.6 5923.3 6383.1 6936.5 7165.3 7961.4 8882.9 9964.7 11169.8 12497.6 14019.4
NFS                            802.6  977.9  834.1  970.9 1065.8 1205.1 1282.8 1407.4 1548.0 1707.0 1883.5 2078.2 2364.6
RESWRCE BALANCE                 -400.9 -903.2 -637.6 -908.5 -774.5 -755.3 -561.0 -619.4 -660.4 -728.4 -779.0 -861.9 -934.7
NET FACTOR INCOME               -484.8 -465.6 -620.9 -559.3 -562.2 -580.8 -596.0 -612.4  -636.3 -655.2 -676.0 -698.7 -725.9
TOTAL FACTOR SERV. REV.          75.5  104.3   61.9  135.3  144.4  157.1  175.8  203.9  235.3  259.8  281.4  303.8  331.4
TOTAL FACTOR SERV. PAYMENTS     560.3  569.9  682.8  694.7  706.6  737.9  771.8  816.2  871.6  915.0  957.4 1002.5 1057.2
INTEREST PAYlENTS             426.9  444.0  439.8  518.7  511.1  531.6  553.9  584.2  624.3  651.5  677.2  705.1  742.2
NET CURR.TRANSFERS              554.2  708.2  679.5  724.2  707.1  735.0  765.2  796.7  829.5  863.6  899.2  936.2  974.8
CURRENT TRANSFERS REV.          566.1  729.8  700.6  74.8  728.9  758.1  789.4  821.9  855.9  891.2  928.0  966.3 1006.2
NET WORKER REMITTANCES         482.5  591.7  562.8  624.8  629.9  654.8  681.0  708.3  736.7  766.2  796.9  828.8  862.0
CURRENT TRANSFERS PAY.           11.9  21.6   21.1   22.6   21.8   23.1   24.2   25.2   26.4   27.6   28.8   30.1   31.5
CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE         -331.5 -660.6 -579.0 -743.6 -629.6 -601.0 -391.8 -435.0 -467.2 -520.0 -555.8 -624.3 -685.8
LONG TERN CAPITAL INFLOW        401.4  47.7  569.7  606.3  820.9  831.2  831.4  905.6  788.0  769.9  809.3  962.9  950.4
OFFICIAL GRANTS                  73.7   80.8   32.4  68.1   77.0   78.6   79.4   79.4   79.4   79.4   79.4   79.4   79.4
NDFI                            144.2  185.2  164.0  166.9  242.0  263.8  292.8  325.0  364.0  400.4  440.5  484.5  533.0
NET LT LOANS (DRS)              193.4  208.6  378.3  371.2  501.9  488.7  459.2  511.1  364.5  323.1  289.4  399.0  338.0
DISBURSEMENT                    830.3 1035.4 1142.1 1350.0 1449.8 1369.4 1295.0 1372.1 1430.2 1571.1  1671.8 1911.3 1913.9
AMORTIZATION                   636.9  826.9  763.8  978.8  947.9  880.7  835.8  860.9 1065.7 1248.0 1382.4 1512.4 1575.8
OTHER NET LT INFLOWS (MON-GUARANTEE -10.0   -7.0  -5.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  -10.0  -20.0  -33.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL OTHER NET                  27.4  109.9  -93.5  177.6  -31.6   43.9   17.2   57.2   67.8   79.9   89.1   97.9  117.1
OTHER CAPITAL NEI               -13.7 .149.7 -127.7  410.6  -65.6    0.0    0.2  -1.8  -0.6   -0.3   -0.2   -0.6  -0.2
NET SHORT TERN DEBT             41.1  259.6   34.2 -233.1   34.0   43.9   17.0   59.0  68.3   80.2   89.4  98.5  117.3
CHNAGE IN NET FOREIGN RESERVES  -97.2   83.0  102.7  .40.3 -159.7 -274.0 -456.8 -527.7 -388.5 -329.8 -342.6 -436.4 -381.7
IMF CHNNGE IN RESERVES          0.0 -111.3   77.1   32.7  -5.2    0.0  -14.0  -44.1  -50.3  -50.3  -50.3  -41.8  -27.8
OTHER CHANGE                   -97.2  194.3   25.6  -73.0 -154.5 -274.0 -442.8 -483.6 -338.2 -279.5 -292.3 -394.6 -353.9
................. ..........................................,.......   ,...............................



Tunisia: Balance of Payments: In millions of US Dottars
...........................................................................................................................................
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
...........................................................................................................................I................
SHARES OF GDP (CURRENT USS)
................................... ........................................ 
RESOURCE BALANCE/GDP                     3.9%    7.2%    4.8%    5.8%    4.6%    4.3%    2.9X   3.0%    2.9%    2.9X    2.9%    2.9%    2.9%
TOTAL INTEREST                           4.2%    3.5X 3.3%    3.3X  3.1%    3.0X   2.9%    2.8%    2.8%    2.6%    2.5X    2.4%    2.3%
CURRENT ACC.DEF/GDP                      3.3%    5.3%    4.4%    4.7%    3.8X   3.4%    2.1%    2.1%    2.1%    2.1%    2.1%   2.1%   2.1%
LONG TERM CAPITAL INFLOW                 3.9%    3.7%    4.3%    3.8%    4.9%    4.7%    4.4%    4.4%    3.5%    3.1X    3.0%    3.2%    2.9%
NET CREDIT FROM IMF                      0.0%   -0.9%    0.6%    0.2%    0.0%    0.0%   -0.1%   -0.2%   -0.2%   -0.2% -0.2%   -0.1%   -0.1%
MEMORANDUM ITEM:
......................................................... 
GOP (in millions USS)                10177.0 12512.8 13188.4 15755.7 16688.7 17682.3 19093.2 20814.8 22697.6 24779.5 27086.6 29659.1 3256.9
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES
...................................
GROSS RESERVES (IFS)                  1036.9   866.8   856.0   896.3  1056.0  1330.0  1786.8  2314.5  2703.1  3032.9  3375.6  3812.0  4193.7
Gross Reserves(months imports)           2.5      1.7      1.8     1.6      1.7     2.0      2.5      3.0     3.1      3.1     3.1      3.1     3.1
EXCHANGE RATES (DINARS/USS)
........... ........................
NOMINAL EXCHANGE RATE                 0.9493  0.8783  0.9246  0.8840  0.9090  0.9430  0.9697  0.9891  1.0089  1.0290  1.0496  1.0706  1.0886
REAL EFFECTIVE EXCHANGE RATE           103.2   100.0   103.0   105.0   106.0   106.1   106.2   106.3   106.3   106.4   106.5   106.7   106.8
(1990-100)
............... ^.................................................................................................................................



Tunisia: Priort  Poverty Indicators
moos S_grm*                       SeW
MO3   15-20    rec SAU70                     AiF         Afe
IndJat                                   alma,.                                                         kamg Vw  h
POVERTY
upmperoaatylh.                          locaMr.               63          87        27S
ib    witu                jEfjcp.                             ..         27           7 
Lowpovatylae                            lclacuw.              31          43         139          -                      .
}Hldoowiba                              %Gfp                             18 is        6
ON?pareapita                              USS                230         710       I.500       1.940      1,610       3.820
SHORT TERM INCOM1E 2bIC&TORS
LWdUbanwagdt                             oc    .               ..          - .
Nasallernu                                                                             *'ftad-
c eum  ji dex                           19*7-0o0              27          40         132
Food                                       U                  .           ..        136          ..         ..
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Publioetnreoiabmjcadcalmalcmi           %afGDP                 -           .          6           ..         ..
hPmay                                %sdloolagsppop           91          97         115         97         100
Ma                                                           116        116         123        105         106
Fma!.                                                        65          78         107         89          98
lnfrtmdlit                           tbou livebidts          145        101         38          60          40         33
tider 5 mont                               U                  -           -         46          79          53         40
Irmndzambe
Mean"                                 %lasgup                 ..         ..          82         87          70
DPTr                                                          -                     93          88          74
Cilld ms tdku Wtla(WA )                                                   i t 21      10          .           .
Toial                                     Sat 51                         58         67          64          67         69
Pemalealas                               rag                1.02       1.02        1.03        1.04       1.08        1.11
To eetalhrato                        birtper-k.-mau           7.0        5.9         3.5         5.3        3.5         2.6
Mateamtalilyt                        100,000riebiats           _           _         127          _           _
Popultion growth rate                      Infant mortality rate                     Primay erolment
(gm)of livbkll)                              (p_r u)
6+-                                     250                                        120+T
5                            ~~~~~~~200                                  100
4                                                                                   8o
3                                                                                   60
100
2                                                                                   40
1                                        so20
0i    01|fg-4                                                                       0
mid60s    mid709       mrs                a2id60s   mid 7a       wre                mid60s   mid7s        nm
Tunlal
Iwaideum



Tunisia: Resources And Expenditures
Mem S wroQl extA4
25390      1S520      rew-- WMIEe    -L                   hJ81,,
Unkqf             yean        ven      estote    A Nort eFaLf-
cmtar                                                         age        ago        (a")       Afric      isen         a'p
HUMAN REURS
Popula   (-99husands                                         4,630      5,611         237     244,123     773,803    6327
AVedqndeney   o                            ratio o            0.99       0.90        0.71        0.87        0.71       0.63
tbxn                                    a%fpop.               39.5       47.6        55.0        54.5        53.9       72.9
Populati growth# rate                    annai %               2.2        2.1         2.0*        3.2         1.7        1.1
Usban                                      t                  39         3.8         3.3         4.5         3.1         2.0
labor force (18454)                      tousands            1,254      1,608       2,671      66,839     302,448    243.141
Auloture                              %oflaborfbcib            49          38           ..
Jnduatzy                                    *                  21          31
Fm!.                                                            9          16         2S          IS          32          30
Fanaper 100
Udban                                    rnuxm                93         101           ..
Rual                                       a                 103          99           ..
NATURAL RISOURCES
At"thu s. Ikon                                                164         164         164      11,015      23,990     380,44
D>3lity                                px12 oesq. bJn         28.0       34.0        48.0        21.0        31.0       16.0
A4ya3lRd 11nd                %otbld area           44.0        49.1        49.2        29.8       41.8        43.9
(MansonagrkstLndm     annwal%               03          1.5        *0.2        0.1         0.0         0.1
A4pilid bmd undw nhption                    %                  1.2        1.6         3.5        28.9        12.6        8.3
ForedBandwoodland                       ghmo at km              4           5           6        391        5,396      7,705
Dafetuatian (nt)                         annual%               1.6        1.4         1.6          ..          - 
INCOME
Houeod huc.
Shbareaftop2O%cofl    ols               %ofiam                 ..         42           ..
Shr ofboltom40%ofhousbwdW                                      .          15           _           _
Sbare ofboUcm2O%ofh    licld                                   ..          6           ..          - 
Pood                                     %ofGDP                 .           _        26.5           -          .
Staples                                    U                   *-          -         4.9           -          .           -
Maest fib,mm:, d_wa                        ^                   _           _         9.6           _          _
ciiinn *                             thoulrietoles            235         337       1,439      37,762      44,418     35,976
Fooda owedso                                                    - _        59        479        2,228       4.047        366
197941-100            107         130         116         119         101        108
P erc_  14gba       5.0        11.0       22.0       136.0        94.2       120.0
lo r i  s6afaDr      19.4       185         15.8        13.0          ..        8.9
Bodwng                                   %efGDP                 _           ..        9.4           _          .
Averl ms "uKsebolaD                 penWsWpettgbsad S 6
Urban                                                          5           6    __
FinedhwvoRtsnn howuing                   %ofGDP                 _           _         5.1
Fuldamdipwr                              %GfGDP                             _         2.7           _                      -
Earegomns ercaplW                      kgafoiequiv.           170         325         520       1,137       1;249      1,701
Houiodswitehctrcl
RunD                                                           -           -           -           -          -
TENISuNt     q         G00              e%ofGDP-                                      5.1           _          _           _
ftsedfirp  bneattrampatephoi*                                   _           _         3.1           _          _           _
Toddroadhngk                               ki                   _.          _      29,183           _          _           _
XGnvOM IN HUMAN C&MAL
Pqmhalaonperpb3id9an                      peces                                     1           196_
PVw_      fpkrv ci_                                                       938        300            _           . 
Popgukmwiprn
Ieulatioaperhoqpitalbed                                         -         400         516        635         509
AMctastoadowater                         %opOp.                                      68.0        82.4          -           _
Unh                                                            _        93.0       100.0        96.4          _           _
Ral                                                            .           -        31.0        663           _
OIn1i9lShyretapia thA W(UDdWr-)          %ofeas                 -           _         63           58          .
Eima
0.. aralbeagatio
Secoday                              %ofsh1dgspop.             16          21         44           60         56           _
Female                                     *                   9          15         39           51          -           _
fupnil4uadwa pdnaary                  pupls per                56          40         28          26          25           _
Pupil4ear  tio: secnday                                                                 _         21           -           _
Ppq   eddng vad4                        %ofcaldaft              ..         88         75          90           .           _
RepedratRd:dmsY                       %oftaalavoll             27          19         20           11          -
C9ULV                                %ofpop. (a8e 15+)         76          62         35          45           _
Famac                               %  f&nm (ae 13+)           ..         ..          44          58          -
News Wa *"Mi                           parhu. p                17          34         38          36           -           _
Source Wld Bank htanlams     Teonmics Deaten Apll 1993
* 1.7 is the latest official estimate for population growth rate



IBRD 24535
.  _                                                  5~~~EDITRANA  Gulf of    l  
T U  N  I S I A                      MEDITERRANEANt    Tunis
SECOND FORESTRY                                              Tnan                                                        37.
DEVELOPMENT                                                  't ',-en
PROJECT
*   *   h                      E     \    j   /  '    "  t  -  '   4"'  ei    o~~~~~~~~~~Nabeul
Bioclimatic Zones
- <Tffi_     -        - ) - Gulf of Hommamet
_ 3634
SAHARIAN                                         __
=-S; Keifuen 6> M ONAS TIR
E71 ARID
"n & tv *O- MAi4 tchdlo
,       SEMI - ARID
SUB - HUMID                            t         ,       O3j               SFAX
L     $D                  /~slo  SFAX    q/o><
PM        H  U UMID                                                                              ' Kerkonah
W       Salt Lakes                                                                                                 34*
Governorate
Copitals
Governorote                _ 13
Boundories
*Tataout
1'1
-< t 5F' - 
Nationat Capital
International                                                                                             323
Boundaries
0   25  50  75
KILOMETERS
314                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31t
Ts a has bobeen oreoted 
by Th. Woad Boak's -staff
exuiul for the convenience
of  des  and is for the
iernl use of The Wodd Sank
Grop.he drnadinalions used
and    boundaries shown
on is o  not , on t-
pa of  Wodhed  iGa
cy j don -fld 14ml w;
Shhofu any ww ihtly or  -
endorsemetorw accptaceW '                      e
wuh boundadis.                                                                    lo                 11
JANUARY 1993



MEDITERRANEAN 
SEA                        ,          < 
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3r-
~~~~~~~~~~ZER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3i
35,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
<  edSloANA r et>7                                                  Gulf of
X t A / ' '%-§ t? <4tr 7, J ntdha°  \  Hammamet
l      C                 GFSi>
r   ¢_gRed  M6tian                                       I  '-                  KILOMETERS
.-'-- TOZEUR   ./,                                               /
i'Chc.#eIGAo5\                                    <s                   Gulf of Gabes
34  |    ~~TOZEURi,-CRoft Cl \                    Ped Fej .ai
NCBA                                                        \g _=  _   _   _   5   >GASES A A              W
½7XI -:    y  -~Chott el Jerid7--  GBELLI 
\   ,9---r  ----/ a 
JS                                <                  ; * , B4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOEIEOEI
\         ~TU NI S IA                               -.    ,~ MD-NI                          -
,  SECONDFORESTRYDEVELOPMENT PROJECT                            t            ,>~MN
Fo>rest Cover and Project Activities                 ,                TATAOUNINE -
rs   nIsAeta                                                       TA TAOUAIiNE       3 (               a
Main Proieet Actiitoes              B
ManaJgennent Pians             Sat.   Lakeis                                            (
o   Ragenaotiorn            -: Rivera                                           
z  MtininSi              ~~~Main Roads
Piontotions     O  ~~~Cities r nd TownSl,        9,_ 
* Gowernoratb Capitals                   N^Yrnd2~wI
77Oak                           National Capital                                     AarorwT  1ASet_
tgAieppo Pine              --Governorate Boundaries                                              \ 
Esparto Grass                                                                  A.GR|
32    z  ~Other ForesUfScrub                                                         32  A L,  G  R-    LI18Y A      _
---------                                       Guldf  of G es               N
I   ht"   t       .7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   .  s                   .M PE    N



