Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11618-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 16, 1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 1993)
Currency Unit     =  Tunisian Dinar (D)
US$ 1.00          =  D 0.9
D 1.00            =  US$1.11
WEIGIITS AND MIEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFIC  -      Forestry Association of Collective Interest (Association Forestiere d'Int6ret Collectif)
AFVA -       Agricultural Extension and Training Agency (Agence de la Vulgarisation et de la
Formation Agricoles)
CFPR  -      Professional Training Center of Remel (Centre de Formation Professionnelle de
Remel)
CRDA -       Regional Agricultural Development Commission (Commissariat Regional de
Developpement Agricole)
CRIP  -      Center of Pedagogic Research and Engineering (Centre de Recherche et d'lng6nierie
Pedagogique)
CTFS   -     Monitoring Technical Committee (Comit6 Technique de Suivi)
DGF  -       Directorate General of Forests (Direction G6n6rale des Forets)
DGFE -       Directorate General of Financing and Promotion (Direction G6n6rale du Financement
et des Encouragements)
DREF -       Directorate of Forest Exploitation (R6gie d'Exploitation Forestiere)
FC    -      Forestry Code (Code Forestier)
FCC   -      Forestry Coordination Committee (Comit6 de Coordination Forestiere)
FSP   -      Sylvo-Pastoral Fund (Fonds Sylvo-Pastoral)
INRF  -      National Institute of Forestry Research (Institut National de Recherche Forestiere)
IRESA -      Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher Education (Institution de Recherche et
de l'Enseignement Superieur Agricoles)
MFPE -       Ministry of Professional Training and Employment (Ministere de la Formation
Professionnelle et de l'Emploi)
MOA  -       Ministry of Agriculture (Ministere de l'Agriculture)
MPRD -       Ministry of Planning and Regional Development (Ministere du Plan et du
D6veloppement Regional)
NFE   -      National Forest Estate (Domaine Forestier de l'Etat)
NGO  -       Non-Governmental Agency (Organisation Non-Gouvernementale)
OEP   -      Livestock and Pasture Agency (Office de l'Elevage et du Paturage)
PMU  -       Project Mlanagement Unit (Bureau de Gestion du Projet)
PDFI -       First Forestry Development Project (Premier Project de Developpement Forestier)
PDF2  -      Second Forestry Development Project (Deuxieme Project de D6veloppement Forestier)
GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan Summara
Borrower:                  Republic of Tunisia
Amount:                    US$69 million equivalent
Terms:                      17 years, including 5 years of grace, based on level repayment of
principle
Project Description:       To address growing demand for wood products in combination with
acute environmental pressures, the Project promotes sustainable
development and management of the Tunisian forests with active
participation of forestry populations. To this end, the Project would
include: (a) execution of infrastructure (firebreaks, housing, roads,
observation towers), preparation of management plans covering 85,000
ha across sites selected for environmental services and production
potential, sylvicultural works for cork oak (5,000 ha) and of Aleppo pine
(14,200 ha) regeneration, and thinning operations over 2,300 ha of cork
oak coppices, 20,600 ha of young stands of natural aleppo pine, 7,900 ha
of eucalyptus coppices, and 21,200 ha of pine plantation;
(b) establishment of plantations (25,400 ha) on National Forest Estate,
4, 100 ha of stream banks plantations for riparian protection, 500 ha of
plantations on farmland, and establishment and improvement of
nurseries; (c) establishment of prairies (1,550 ha), shrub plantations
(7,150 ha), improved natural rangeland (2,350 ha), cactus plantations
(1,550 ha), and rehabilitation of existing pastures (1,400 ha); a training
and technical assistance program to help implement the component;
(d) studies on fuel wood, wood processing, wood minor forest products,
and provision of training programs in wood exploitation, treatment, and
sawing; (e) strengthening the equipment of national parks and reserves
and providing means to control and protect wildlife; (f) supporting
the implementation of a research program focussing on testing forest bio-
systems; (g) strengthening forest related institutions at central and
regional levels to assist them in implementing the Project, including the
carrying out of socio-economic studies and setting up integrated forest
pilot operations with Non-Governmental agencies (NGOs) assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Costs
Local       Foreign   Total
(US$ million)-------
Vehicles and equipment                           2.0         2.8        4.8
Plantations and sylvicultural works             57.1         32.6      89.7
Constructions and civil works                    2.4         2.5        4.9
Training, technical assistance and pilot projects  5.9       4.0        9.9
Incremental operating costs                      3.4          1.9       5.3
Total Base Costs                             70.8        43.8      114.6
Physical contingencies                    7.1         4.4       11.5
Price contingencies                       16.3        5.7       22.0
Total Project Costs                          94.2 /a     53.9      148.1
/s Including US$25.4 million of taxes and duties
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign   Total
_----US$ million-
World Bank                                    18.1        50.9      69.0
African Development Bank                       -           0.7      0.7
Beneficiaries                                  4.2          -        4.2
Government                                    46.5         2.3      48.8
Net project Costs                           68.8        53.9     122.7
Taxes and Duties                            25.4          -       25.4
Total Project Costs                         94.2        53.9    148.1
Estimated Disbursement
(USS million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Annual            0.7      3.4    11.1    13.8    11.0    11.1    13.8    2.7        1.4
Cumulative         0.7     4.1     15.2    29.0    40.0    51.1    64.9    67.6    69.0
Economic Rate of Return:    13 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 11618-TUN
Maps Ng.:                  IBRD  24535
IBRD 24536



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
Table of Conet
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION  ..........................................                              1
H.  THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR ...................                                              2
A.    Forestry inthe Economy .       .................................               2
B.   Forest Resources .......................................   3
C.    Forest, Environment, and Nature Protection  .....................    4
D.    Forest Management and Exploitation ........          ..................    5
E.    Research  ...........................................                          6
F.     Processing Forestry Products ..........        .....................    6
G.    Management and Institutional Framework .......................    7
H.    Development Objectives and Strategies .......         ..................    9
-.    Investments in the Sub-sector ...........        ....................    10
J.     Constraints Relevant to the Project .1...........................   11
Ill.    BANK LENDING IN AGRICULTURE AND PAST PERFORMANCE  ... ......   12
A.    Past Lending in Agriculture ................................    12
B.    The Forestry Development Project (Loan 2870-TUN) ................   13
C.    Lessons Learned .       .......................................    13
IV. THE PROJECT    ..14
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .14
B. Concept and Objectives .14
C. Components .14
D. Detailed Features .15
E. Status of Design .18
F. Cost .18
G. Financing .20
H. Procurement .20
1. Disbursement .23
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    ..25
A. Organization, Management .25
B.    Execution of Works; Purchase of Goods; Studies and Traiinng .26
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation .......................                             27
D. Accounts and Audit .27
Thbis report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Tunisia in December
1992, composed of Messrs. Carlos G6is (Task Manager), F. Wencelius, H. Stier and Ms.
E. Kennedy (Bank), Messrs. El Adab, J. Gauthier, J. Marion, and B. Fabregues (Consultants)



Table of contents cont'd
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ..........  28
A.      Production  ..........................................                                        28
B.      Markets  ............................................                                         28
C.   Prices .               ............................................  28
D.      Impact on Government Budget and Cost Recovery ..................    29
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   ............                        ..         .................    30
A.      Benefits and Beneficiaries  .................................    30
B.      Economic Analysis  .....................................    31
C. Project Impact ........                                                                            32
D.      Risk and Sensitivity Analysis ...............................    33
E.      Sustainability .........................................    34
F.      Special Emphasis Programs ................................    35
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....                                           ........  35
In-text Tables
Table 2.1: Wood Availability and Demand  ...........................                                    3
Table 2.2: Forestry Development Objectives  ..........................                                10
Table 2.3: Investments in the Subsector  .............................                                10
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary  .................................                                    19
Table 4.2: Price Contingencies ...................................    20
Table 4.3: Project Financing  ....................................    20
Table 4.4: Summary of Project Procurement Arrangements  .................    22
Table 4.5: Disbursement Schedule .................................    23
Table 4.6: Disbursement Categories ................................    24
Table 6.1: Financial Prices for Selected Project Output ....................    29
Table 6.2: Impact of Government Budget ............................    29
Table 7.1: Economic Returns ................                   .   ....................    31
Table 7.2: Sensitility Analysis  ...................................    34
Supporting Tables
Table 1: Project Components by Year ..............................    37
Table 2: Project Cost Summary ..................................    38
Table 3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  ... .....................    39
Table 4: Project Activities by Governorate .40
Table 5: Calculation of Stumpage Values for Pine Sawnwood .41
Table 6: Calculation of Stumpage Values for Pine Sawnwood .42
Table 7: Calculation of Stumpage Values for Pine Chipwood .43
Table 8: Calculation of Stumpage Values for Poplar Sawnwood .44
Table 9: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.                                   45
Table 10: Supervision Plan                   ..46



1. Implementation Schedule   .............................   47
2. Organization Chart ..............................  48
Maps:        IBRD 24536 - Forest Cover and Project Activities
IRBD 24535 - Bioclimatic Zones
Annexes in the Implementation Volume
Annex 1: Cost Tables
Annex 2: Forest Management
Annex 3: Plantations
Annex 4: Forest Pasture and Range Improvement
Annex 5: Wood Exploitation and Value Enhancement
Annex 6: Nature Conservation
Annex 7: Forestry Research
Annex 8: Institutional Development
Annex 9: Financial and Economical Analysis
Annex 10: Project Monitoring






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01         In Tunisia, there are about 370,000 ha of natural forest and 290,000 ha of forest plantations.
The total value of production of the sub-sector is estimated at about US$110 million, 7 percent of the gross
agriculture product or 1 percent of GNP. Along with increasing production, the Tunisian forestry strategy
has supported development objectives of fighting erosion, conserving the nation's forest heritage, and
improving the socio-economic conditions of population in forest areas. The production of industrial wood
has increased significantly in recent years, but is only about 40 percent of the potential and only 50 percent
of current demand. The deficit is met by imports worth about US$1 10 million. Available fuel wood could
meet demand regionally, but is not located where needed, which results in unbalanced use and threat to the
environment. The Forestry Code (1988) focusses on measures to promote forest conservation, defines the
national forest domain, specifies the rights of forestry users (about 800,000 people), promotes rangeland
development and establishes rules for environment and wildlife protection. It is being implemented, but
its impact on forest management is not yet significant.  Indeed, some decrees necessary to the
implementation of key Code provisions have still not been passed. Tunisia's diverse flora and fauna,
including some globally threatened species, are benefitting from an increasing number of national parks and
reserves. Efforts are being made to conserve natural habitats and to prevent deforestation and uncontrolled
hunting. The forestry component of the 7th Development Plan (1987-1991) has mostly attained its physical
goals; however, Tunisia still confronts forest loss in some areas. Government has embarked on an
ambitious program (1990-2000) comprising reforestation, anti-desertification measures in the arid South,
fodder plantation, range management, and soil and water conservation works. The 8th Development Plan
(1992-1996) will finance a part of this program. The constraints hampering the development of the sector
are more institutional and social rather than technical. Particular focus needs to be given to the participation
of local population in planning, executing, and operating forestry development programs, for example to
reduce human and cattle pressure on forest rangelands and to assist forest regeneration
1.02         In Tunisia, the only loan dealing exclusively with the forestry sector is the ongoing Forestry
Development Project (PDFI). This project aims to establish the basis for the comprehensive conservation,
development and use of Tunisia's forest resources and provides the technical and institutional basis for a
larger operation in the future. It is being implemented satisfactorily. However, steps initiated with the
PDFI should be pursued and consolidated in particular concerning the integrated forestry development and
active participation of the population. Also, measures to enhance the value of the Tunisian wood should
be intensified and expanded.
1.03         The country assistance strategy identifies natural resource management and the environment
as key development issues for Tunisia and on which the Bank will play a leadership role in helping the
Government through lending, analytical work, and donor coordination. In view of the success of the PDFI,
Government is strongly interested in continuing its relationship with the Bank and to benefit from its
assistance in consolidating and expanding the sector, increasing the role of the private sector, strengthening
users' associations, ensuring and strengthening the use of sound principles of environmental protection and
conservation of natural resources.



1.04          In the light of the above, the Bank and the Government requested the FAO/CP to assist the
Directorate General of Forests (DGF) in identifying and preparing the second Forestry Development Project
(PDF2). The identification report (no. 77/91 CP-TUN) was issued on July 2, 1991. An FAO/CP
preparation mission visited Tunisia in March 1992. Its final report (no. 114/92 CP-TUN) was issued on
August 28, 1992 with the participation and subsequent review by the DGF. Government formally requested
Bank financing of the PDF2 in March 1992 and has allocated funds to the Project in the 8th Development
Plan. In October 1992, the Bank considered the Project ready for appraisal which took place in December
1992.
II. THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
A. Forestry in the Economy'
2.01          The national forest estate in Tunisia covers 900,000 ha, and comprises 368,400 ha of natural
forest, 260,000 ha of plantations, and 271,600 ha of scrubs, esparto grass, and grazing land. In addition,
there are about 30,000 ha of plantations on private or collective land, 1,683,000 ha of collective esparto
grass and grazing land, and 1,232,000 ha of private scrubs and grazing land. Forest occupies about
4 percent of the total country area (8 percent if unproductive areas in the south are excluded).
2.02          The total value of wood and wood products in 1991 is estimated to be D 100 million
(US$110 million), equivalent to about 7 percent and I percent of agricultural and total production,
respectively. This production consists of over 3 million m3 of wood, 92 percent of which is fuel wood,
about 400-500 million forage units, 50,000 tons of esparto grass, and revenues from hunting and game of
about D 7.5 million. Annual production of roundwood for industrial use has grown rapidly, doubling to
242,000 m3 between 1987 and 1991.
2.03          Domestic demand for wood and wood products (Table 2.1) is dominated by fuel wood,
which accounts for 87 percent of the total demand of 7.3 million m3. Remaining demand consists of
agricultural and mining timber (140,000 m3), chip wood (75,000 i3), and sawn wood (740,000 m3). Since
most fuel wood is used directly in rural areas without entering formal markets, data on fuel wood supply
and demand are imprecise. But it is estimated that sustainable yield of fuel wood from State forests, scrub,
village wood lots, and tree crop prunings would only cover 44 percent of demand, implying a substantial
unregulated decapitalization of forest resources. With four fifths of rural household energy use supplied
by fuel wood, and with rural population continuing to grow, an accurate assessment of the fuelwood
situation is critical. An ongoing forest inventory will clarify the resource base upon completion in 1994,
and in the meantime, the Project will include a study of fuelwood supply and demand in Tunisia, with
financing from the African Development Bank (para. 4.16).
1/    This report discusses the forestry subsector only.  The Tunisian agricultural sector, its economic
importance, performance, constraints, and policy reforms needed to reach sector objectives, are described
in: (a) Agriculture Pricing, Marketing and Incentive Policies for Structural Change (Report No. 7640-TUN
of 2/23/89); (b) Agricultural Expenditure Review (No. 951 I-TUN of 5/91); (c) Second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 3078) President's Report (No. P-5001-TUN) of 5/1/89); and (d) Agriculture
Sector Assistance Strategy Brief (No. 11579-TUN).



Table 2.1: Estimates of Wood Availability and Demand
(expressed in m3 of round wood equivalent)
Fuel Wood          Agricultural         Chip        Sawm           Total
Wood        Wood
Demand                 6 300 000           140 000           75 000       740 000      7 255 000
Availability
National Forest         113 000           65 000            70 000        72 000        320 000
Scrubs                  650 000                                                         650 000
Fruit Trees           2 010 000           20 000             5 000         5 000      2 040 000
Total Available         2 774 000           85 000            75 000       77 000       3 010 000
Surplus (Deficit)     (3 727 000)          (55 000)               0       (663 000)    (4 245 000)
2.04           Tunisia's forest resources make a significant indirect contribution to the economy, although
this is not easily quantified. Most of the 800,000 people who live in or around forests are poor and
dependent to varying degrees upon forestry, for employment, fuel wood, and grazing and other forest
products. They also benefit from forest roads and related services in otherwise isolated rural areas. Forests
also protect watersheds, providing benefits through the reduction of soil erosion and sedimentation of
hydraulic infrastructure, regulation of water runoff, wildlife habitat and provision of recreation.
2.05           Domestic growth in demand for wood and wood products continues to outpace the recent
improvements in production, resulting in import growth of 20 percent in volume, and from D 60 million
to D 96 million between 1988 and 1990, or roughly 2 percent of the total value of merchandise imports.
Imports are mostly of agricultural, mining, and sawn wood, for which local production only covers about
18 percent of domestic needs. Total demand for wood products is expected to continue to grow, as will
imports unless Tunisia can improve management and exploitation of available resources. It is estimated that
about 333,000 m3 of wood could potentially be exploited every year compared to a total of about
243,000 m3 harvested in 1991 and that larger quantities of high value sawn timber (which represents
87 percent of the total value of imports) could be produced if forestry services were provided with adequate
means. The proposed Project will finance studies to identify existing supplies of the various types of wood
and actions needed to be taken to optimize or valorize their production.
B. Forest Resources
2.06           In the northern and central Governorates, forests occupy high elevations.  In these
elevations, forests cover over 40 percent of the areas with population density (40 to 120 inhabitants per
km2) exceeding the national average of 36 inhabitants per km2. This population cultivates clearings and
their livestock graze in the forest.
2.07           Two groups of natural forest exist in Tunisia. One is located in the northern Governorates
(Jendouba, Beja, and Bizerte) on acid, clayey soils, humid or sub-humid climate with an annual rainfall
between 550 mm and 1,500 mm. It comprises all cork oak forest (80,000 ha), of which some 25,000 ha
are mixed with zeen oak, the zeen oak forest (10,000 ha), and the natural maritime pine forest (10,000 ha).
The second group is formed by Aleppo pine forest (200,000 ha) and by forest stands of thuya, holm oak,
and several other species (68,000 ha). It occupies calcareous and clayey-calcareous soils with surface
calcareous crust, and marls. The annual precipitation is between 250 mm and 550 mm. In addition to these
hard conditions, excessive deforestation of river banks threatens the aleppo pine forest which is further
affected by excessive water runoff and leaching of fine soil elements. This second group comprises the
Governorates of Kairouan, Zaghouan, Siliana, le Kef, and Kasserine.



- 4 -
2.08          In comparison with other Mediterranean countries, Tunisia has made a tremendous effort
of afforestation. Forest plantations, mainly in the national forestry estate, cover about 44 percent of the
total forest cover; they have focussed equally on production (wood and fodder), and on protection. Wood
production has been essentially concentrated on the northern humid and sub-humid areas. The species
selected are pinus and eucalyptus. Protection efforts refer to plantations on reservoir water basins, green
belts of urbanized zones, and wind breaks for agricultural perimeters. Favored species are pinus, acacia
and eucalyptus.
2.09          Except for zeen oak forest and some stands on very deep soils,forest stands are old with
trees short trees (6 to 12 m). Diameters average 20 cm to 40 cm at 1,30 m of height. The standing volume
of aleppo pine forest averages less than 40 m3/ha and the average annual growth rate is estimated at
0.5 m3/ha.year. Natural regeneration of these old stands has proven to be difficult even when assisted and
no clear justification for this has yet been found.
2.10          Esparto grass occupies about 433,100 ha in the governorate of Kasserine, Gafsa, Sidi
Bouzid, Kairouan and Gabes. Some 52 percent of this area is collectively owned. Esparto grass is used
as fodder, for handcrafting, and to produce paper paste. Due to population and livestock pressure, there
is an annual decrease of the total area of esparto grass of about 2 to 3 percent. Its exploitation and
management is the responsibility of the DGF. Management plans are essentially based on closing certain
areas to exploitation in accordance with traditional practice and local experience and with the objective of
preserving the resources.
2.11          Fruit trees, and in particular olive trees, also contribute significantly to the national forestry
resources. In fact thinning and pruning these trees produce about 2,010,000 m' of wood annually. This
represents a sizeable portion of national fuel wood needs.
2.12          Other forestry products are also a source of income and welfare for the population living
in the forest. Among these products, myrtle, rosemary, caper are already exploited. In addition, pine nuts,
Bruyere roots, mushrooms, carob, bark, honey and wax as well as medical plants offer potential for income.
Game, for both local and foreign hunting, is also a notable asset. Unfortunately, these resources are not
sufficiently known. In view of the value they might have in contributing to the socio-economic situation
of the forest users, the Project finances a study to examine developing those potential sources of income
(para. 4.16).
C. Forest, Environment and Nature Protection
2.13          Biodiversity in forests and natural areas of Tunisia is highly significant both nationally and
internationally. Tunisia has three main bio-geographical zones-i.e., humid and sub-humid in the north,
semi-arid and arid in the center, and Saharian in the south. The few remaining wildlands are the habitat
of about 5,500 species of plants and diversified wildlife including 75 species of mammals and 400 species
of birds. These riches are under increasing threat; in particular, several species of mammals have already
disappeared (e.g., Oryx and Addax) and others are disappearing (e.g., Barbary stag and diverse gazelle
species). In addition to species diversity, Tunisia also has unique and fragile humid ecosystems, such as
those of Lake Ichkeul which is the most important waterfowl wintering site in North Africa. A system of
protected areas has been developed recently which includes Six National Parks covering 40,000 ha and
several natural reserves including game reserves; two additional National Parks covering 150,000 ha are
being proposed. This system of protected areas faces the following problems: (i) it does not yet cover the
whole range of the country's biodiversity; and (ii) it faces increasing financial difficulties which affect
infrastructure maintenance and development together with protection, educational and recreational activities.
2.14          Besides assisting in protecting biodiversity, natural forest cover and planted forests have an
important role in soil and water conservation. Forests protect soils from erosion, which is a very important
problem in Tunisia, and regulate water runoff and infiltration. Erosion threatens about 3 million ha of



-5 -
which about half is already badly eroded. The most detrimental effects of erosion and excessive water
runoff in Tunisia are siltation of reservoirs which can affect dramatically their capacity; destruction of
infrastructure and threat to human life by torrents, earthslides and floods; and degradation of agriculture
land, with subsequent loss of crop productivity, and total loss of an estimated 10,000 ha of agriculture land.
In order to cope with this problem, the Ministry of Agriculture is carrying out an important soil and water
conservation program including integrated watershed management, promotion of soil conservation techniques
on farmland, and torrent control and water course management. Afforestation has only been a small part
of this program so far.
2.15          The major stresses to forests and natural vegetation is grazing and deforestation for
development of agricultural land. Tunisia has lost about a third of its forests over the last 60 years and
suffers ongoing and steady degradation of remaining Aleppo pine forest and scrub forest (garrigues, and
maquis). Forest fires in Tunisia are not as serious as in other Mediterranean countries; they have affected
about 13,000 ha in the 1980s, which is less than 0.3 percent of total forest area, and have been kept under
control thanks to dedicated forestry staff and efficient cooperation by people living in the forests. However,
forest fires represent a potential growing stress to forests which needs careful attention.
D. Forest Management and Exploitation
2.16          Management of forests in Tunisia focusses on natural forests with the highest potential and
on plantations. Since the early 1960s rather sophisticated management plans have been developed, mainly
by consultants under contracts with the DGF, on about 320,000 ha, or slightly more than one third of the
state-owned forest land. These plans deal with about 75 percent (275,000 ha) of natural forests, but only
about 20 percent (45,000 ha) of the existing plantations; little or no planning deals with lower value natural
forest cover, such as garrigue, maquis, and esparto grass areas. Also, there remains an important gap
between planning and actual implementation. Most of the planned natural regeneration has been postponed
by insufficient financial resources, inadequate harvesting capacity, the administration's inability to protect
regenerated stands from grazing, and technical uncertainties for some species such as cork oak. This has
resulted in aged stands with an estimated harvest backlog of about 500,000 m3. Most planned thinnings in
young stands have also not been implemented, because of poor funding, lack of staff motivation, and
technical uncertainties; this will affect future growth and health of these stands.
2.17          The conceptual capacity of the forestry administration regarding forest management has
improved recently, with a shift from past emphasis on technical aspects towards a broader approach to
integrated and participative management of all forest resources. This trend should be expanded and
supported, both at the central level and in the field where forestry staff should be organized to better cope
with forest management priorities. Since World War II, a significant effort has been made by Government
to develop infrastructure related to forest management.  However, housing for forest guards is still
insufficient; and the road network-which is satisfactory for forests in the north-leaves the most threatened
southern Aleppstateo pine forests with poor access. Even though forest fires control has been acceptable
thanks to dedicated forestry staff and the cooperation of forest dwellers, more equipment and infrastructure
are needed to prevent and combat large fires.
2.18          Exploitation of wood in state-owned forests is the responsibility of the Regie d'Exploitation
Foresticre (DREF) which is the only entity, within the Forestry Administration, that is authorized to market
forest products. Currently the private sector harvests, about 60 percent of forests in Tunisia to sell as
standing wood. DREF is harvesting the balance of 40 percent on force account, but aims to reduce this
share to about 20 percent in the near future. It also plans to operate only in the most difficult areas and
conditions. Both standing wood and wood harvested by DREF are sold by auction which ensures that prices
reflect market value of wood; total sales reached D2,650,000 in 1991. There are about 50 wood harvesting
entrepreneurs who actually buy from DREF and often sub-contract harvesting to others. Wood is generally
harvested by traditional methods and with poor equipment. This results in significant waste of forest



- 6 -
resources. Exploitation of cork has remained steady over the past three decades, since increased individual
yields are balanced with increased mortality in the mostly aging stands. This exploitation, under the sole
responsibility of DREF, is not very efficient; collection techniques and marketing procedures should be
improved; private entrepreneurship should be promoted. Other non-wood forest products are harvested by
local people under specific authorization given by the Forestry Administration against payment of taxes.
E. Research
2.19          Forest research used to have an important role in Tunisian forestry; this role has weakened,
however, since the late 1970s because of organizational and financial difficulties. Forest research is the
responsibility of the Institut National de la Recherche Forestiere (INRF) which is structured in five
departments: forest and range ecology, sylviculture and forest production, biometry and forest economics,
soil and water conservation, and forest environment and nature protection. Research infrastructures-i.e.,
laboratories, arboreta, field research stations, and experimental forests-are well developed under the central
station in Tunis and 4 regional centers. During the 1960s and the 1970s, INRF has focussed on solving
the problems of the humid and sub-humid zones. Since the late 1970s, a decrease of staff and progressive
isolation of INRF from other partners in the forestry sector have caused delays in research programs and
field activities. In spite of a recent effort to strengthen the staff of INRF, forest research activities still face
the following main problems: (i) many scientific positions are not yet filled; (ii) research programs are
mostly designed by researchers with little partnership with public and private end users of research
activities; research programs deal with a wide spectrum of topics and do not necessarily reflect sector
priorities; and (iii) present budgetary allocations are insufficient. INRF programs desperately need to be
focussed on sector priorities and to be supported by sufficient human and financial resources.
F. Processing Forestry Products
2.20          Available yield of round wood for industrial use in Tunisia is evaluated at 333,000 m3
annually. Since the PDFI was initiated, wood harvesting has increased twofold to reach 243,000 m3 in
1991. Some 46 percent of it is fuelwood, 22 percent is utility wood and most of the rest is used to supply
the particle board mills. The logs of quality for sawnwood are currently transformed into chip wood
because of inadequate access roads and a lack of appropriate skidding and hauling equipment.
2.21          Nine sawmills which rely mainly on logs imported from Ivory Coast for their production,
produce only 10 percent of the country's needs of lumber. The sawmills operate at less than 50 percent
of their capacity, and are underequipped and underfinanced. In 1992, the country's four particle board mills
operated at 80 percent of capacity.  Their entire production is sold locally, mostly to furniture
manufacturers. Demand for boards is ever increasing but local facilities have been able to satisfy the market
without imports. The country's one veneer plant is closing down but there are six plywood plants operating
at less than 45 percent of capacity. They use imported veneers to manufacture plywood or as faces for
locally produced boards. The pulp and paper mill in Kasserine produces 15,000 tons of alfa pulp annually
and in 1991, it exported about one half of its production. Current plans are to increase the pulp capacity
of the mill to 24,000 tons annually. The country's industrial capacity for panels is adequate. Production
costs are high and not competitive to permit export. The Project would study the cost of harvesting sawlogs
and the feasibility of improving existing sawmills to accept these logs. In the Project, emphasis would be
given to training of the forest industry labor force.
2.22          Tunisian cork oak forest-which is about 4 percent of world cork oak forest-, provides
8,000 to 10,000 tons of cork annually. The production is sold by the DREF to two privately owned plants
which transform one third of the production. In addition, one state-owned enterprise is responsible for the
rest of the production. This state owned enterprise is planning to privatize shortly. Exports of cork
products amounted to US$1,300,000 equivalent in 1992. Non-wood forest products make an important
contribution to the revenues of local populations. The country has three briar pipes factories and two
distillation plants which produce 120 tons of essential oils annually. In addition, harvesting rights for



- 7 -
capers, figs and myrtle amounted to some D50,000 in 1991. Bee keepers use 35,000 beehives to produce
200 tons of honey and 50 tons of wax annually. It is believed that Tunisia uses only 5 percent of its
potential of non-wood forest products as compared to 25 percent in other Mediterranean countries. The
Project will finance a study of this sector of forest utilization in order to direct its economic development.
G. Management and Institutional Framework
Forestry Institutions at Central Level
2.23          The Directorate General of Forests (DGF), within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is
the technical department in charge of managing the National Forest Estate (NFE) and the public, private
and collective forest and grazing lands under forestry regime. It also assists, promotes and monitors private
forestry development and manages the national parks and reserves. It is particularly in charge of (1) forest
protection, conservation and surveillance (in accordance with the Forestry Code), (2) definition of the
forestry and pasture strategy, (3) preparation and implementation of forestry projects, and (4) control,
guidance and monitoring activities carried out by outside forestry-related agents and regional forestry
departments.
2.24          The DGF was reorganized in 1990 (decree 90-670 of April 25, 1990). It comprises an
inspection department in charge of the general control of DGF activities and two operational
directorates-Sylvo-pastoral Development (DDSP) and Forest Conservation (DCF). The DDSP is sub-
divided in the Development Division (plantations, pastoralism, and desertification control) and the
Management Division (inventory, studies and forestry economy). The DCF comprises the Protection
Division and the Hunting and National Parks Division. The main innovative features of the new DGF
organization were to concentrate in the DDSP all services in charge of projects and the creation of inventory
and forestry economy services. This demonstrates Government's commitment to improve the management
and exploitation of the national forest.
2.25          Of a total of some 500 technical staff in the sector, the DGF has about 55 technicians and
about 49 professionals with a forestry education degree. The department remains mainly as an agency for
police and surveillance and has only recently made its first steps towards planning and management. To
better fulfil these tasks, the DGF needs to diversify the qualifications of its personnel.
2.26          In addition to the DGF, responsibility for soil erosion control and water catchment
protection is vested in a Directorate of Soil and Water Conservation (DCES). For the exploitation of forest
products, namely logging and timber sales, and in accordance with the Forestry Code (FC), the DGF relies
on the Directorate of Forest Exploitation (DREF).
2.27          Forestry research (para. 2.19) is undertaken in Tunisia by the National Institute for Forestry
Research (INRF) with headquarters in Tunis and four regional agencies. The INRF also operates 41
arboretum, six research centers and two pilot forests of Aleppo pine, cork, and zeen oak. From 1957 to
1976, forest research set up its infrastructure and addressed problems related to reforestation for production
in the humid and sub-humid areas of the country. Between 1976 and 1982, research activities slowed down
considerably because of lack of funding and staff. Subsequently, particularly after 1987, INRF has been
revitalized with new recruitment but it is still far from being able to respond adequately to the needs of the
sector. Other agencies like the University, the Tabarka Sylvo-Pastoral Institute, and the Institute for Arid
Regions, play a minor role in forestry research.
Forest Institutions at Regional Level
2.28          At the regional level, DGF activities are coordinated by the provincial forestry services,
arrondissements forestiers (AF). There is one AF per Governorate with the exception of Bizerte and
Jendouba where there are two. There are altogether 24 AF in Tunisia. They are administratively under



- 8 -
the Regional Commission for Agriculture Development (CRDA) of the relevant Governorate which were
recently restructured and provided with large administrative and financial autonomy. This means that AFs
technically depend on the DGF and administratively on the Governorate through the CRDA. With an
increasing workload resulting from the implementation of national and regional programs, AFs lack
adequate qualified staff. In addition, the area under the control and management of forest agents (forest
units) often exceeds their capacity to protect and administer. Government should review the situation and
by December 31, 1994, establish for each AF, in accordance with its particular physical characteristics,
maximum sizes for forest units. Assurances to this effect have been obtained at negotiations
Institutional Implications of the Role of the Private Sector in Forest Management
2.29          The promulgation of the new Forestry Code (FC) approved by the law n. 88-20 of April
13, 1988 coincides with the effectiveness of the PDFI. Its basic principles focus on the important role of
the forest in the socio-economic promotion of population living in the forest and which are still the less
favored in Tunisia. The role of the DGF has been re-enforced to assist in organizing this population and
in giving them the responsibility of managing forest exploitation by themselves. In spite of these noble
principles, the DGF agents still keep a "police and autocratic" attitude when developing forest resources.
A reconciliation with the forest population is needed. This can be achieved by the possibility given to the
forest users by the FC to get together, form voluntary associations (AFIC), and become full partners in
implementing protective and development programs for exploitation of forest resources. The relevant
dispositions of the FC (Art. 43 and 44), however, cannot fully be executed until the implementation decrees
are passed. The ongoing population census operations is a prior condition for the establishment of these
AFICs. In addition, ongoing contacts and collaboration with NGOs are being sought in order to better
define the objectives and operating procedures of the AFICs. The Project foresees the establishment and
implementation of 10 pilot integrated operations aimed at defining the appropriate basis for the promulgation
of implementation decrees referring to the AFICs, and testing how population, the DGF and the NGOs can
work together in exploiting forestry resources in a sustainable way. Assurances have been obtained at
negotiations that Government would take measures to ensure the conclusion, not later than June 30, 1994
of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank in respect of the pilot operations, such arrangements to include the
participation and consultation with forestry population concerned, NGOs and the DGF. For the decrees
regarding the execution of works by the AFICs, (Art 43 of the FC), constitution, organization, by-laws and
operation of the AFICs (Art.44 of the FC), assurances have been obtained at negotiations that these decrees
would be approved by December 31, 1997, or such later date as shall be agreed to by the Borrower and
the Bank, following the recommendations of the mid-term Project review.
2.30          The FC defines the rights and obligations of forest users. It is innovative in the sense that
it gives users the possibility of exploiting resources in the National Forest Estate (NFE) through integrating
the population living in the NFE into forest activities. The decree foreseen in Art. 38 of the FC refers to
the conditions for granting authorizations to exercise the right to use the NFE. This decree has not yet been
passed but it is not an impediment to the forestry development programs. These rights are currently enjoyed
on an ad hoc basis under the supervision and control of the AFs. However, for better organization of the
population and its integration in the sylvo-pastoral development within the framework of the AFICs, the
approval of this decree is necessary to give precision to the conditions for granting these authorizations.
Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that this decree would be approved not later than December
31, 1996.
2.31          The balanced and sustainable development and exploitation of the sylvo-pastoral resources
are in the national interest.  Therefore the FC foresees measures to promote and encourage this
development. The objective is to increase the private sector participation and to improve the socio-economic
conditions of the forest population. Its Art. 70 creates the Sylvo-Pastoral Fund (FSP); the operating
procedures should be fixed by decree. Art. 72 states that the nature of the actions eligible to Government
aid under the FSP and the conditions and procedures to provide this aid should also be fixed by decree.
None of this legislation has yet been approved. The FSP is an essential tool for the development of the



-9-
forestry sector and it expands similar measures already taken for agricultural development.  It will
contribute substantially to the integration of the forest population and to the participation of the private
sector in the development of the forestry resources. However, the promulgation of these decrees foreseen
in the Articles 70 and 72 of the FC must be preceded by a slight amendment of Article 70 of the FC. This
amendment would define the origin of the FSP funds and who would manage it. This procedure is
necessarily long, since it requires approval by the Chamber of Deputies. In addition, in view of the
ongoing preparation of a Unified Investment Code, it is possible that this Code would incorporate provisions
which would fulfill the same objectives as the FSP and therefore the above amendment or publication of
the FSP decrees would not be necessary. What is important and urgent is to create the legal basis for
financial assistance to the forestry sector in line with the objectives established for the FSP. Assurances
have been obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would submit to its Chamber of Deputies legislation
to ensure the establishment and operation of a system of financial assistance along the lines of the FSP
before loan effectiveness and that the Borrower would take all necessary measures to ensure the prompt
establishment and operation, in accordance with suitable policies and procedures, of the said system of
financial assistance. To complement the FSP and within a coherent policy of promoting the sector, the
advantages foreseen in the Agricultural and Fisheries Investment Code should be extended to the forestry
activities and in particular to support forestry entrepreneurs. The decree no. 90-1252 of August 1, 1990
which modifies the list of the activities which are eligible to the benefits provided by the Agricultural and
Fisheries Investment Code could be completed to extend the existing advantages to entrepreneurs in the
forestry sector. As mentioned above, a Unified Investment Code is under preparation. The promulgation
of this Code with a draft satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of third tranche release of the Economic and
Financial Reforms Support Loan (loan 3424-TUN). This Code would provide adequate incentives to the
private sector for related service activities in the forestry sector. The timely promulgation of this Code
would preclude the need to amend the decree no. 90-1252 of August 1, 1990. Assurances have been
obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would take the necessary measures to provide those adequate
incentives, including the prompt publication of decrees, not later than December 31, 1994.
2.32         In a supportive relationship between the forestry Administration and the private sector, it
would be possible to promote and expand private investment in the NFE as foreseen in Art.75 and 76 of
the FC. In fact Art. 75 gives private entrepreneurs the legal basis to occupy temporarily the NFE for sylvo-
pastoral development purposes. The Director General of the DGF is entitled to give these occupancy
authorizations but the decree foreseen in Art. 76 of the FC which would fix the conditions for granting these
authorizations has not yet been passed. The uncertain and undefined character of the current situation
should be eliminated and assurances have been obtained at negotiations that the decree foreseen in Art. 76
of the FC would be approved by December 31, 1995. However, this is only one of the aspects to
materialize the Government policy to increasing involvement of the private sector in forestry development.
The basis has been established in the FC but they have not yet been appropriately implemented. It is time
that a plan of action be established and implemented to motivate and enhance the role of the private sector
in the forestry development. In view of the importance of fuel wood demand and the direct implication of
the private sector in its exploitation, this plan would take into account fuel wood as a major component.
Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that, not later than December 31, 1995, the PMU would
prepare such a plan of action satisfactory to the Bank and Government would implement it thereafter.
H. Development Objectives and Strategies
2.33          The recently updated country assistance strategy identifies natural resource management and
the environment as key development issues for Tunisia and on which the Bank will play a leadership role
in helping the Government through lending, analytical work, and donor coordination. In particular, the
country assistance strategy, building on the Bank-supported National Environment Action Plan (1990),
recognizes prevention of deforestation, soil erosion and watershed degradation of hydrological resources
as critical needs, and the role of improved forest management and conservation in addressing them.



- 10 -
2.34          During the decade 1962-1971, priority was given to management of existing forests, to
reforestation and to training of staff. Following the 1969 and 1973 floods, development programs focussed
on water and soil conservation. Legislation published in 1974 put all collective rangeland under the forestry
national estate. This led Government to especially address the creation of pastoral reserves and the
improvement of range management. The social issue resulting from the presence of a population of some
800,000 people in the forest has traditionally been addressed only through programs to reduce
unemployment. This has hampered an appropriate management of the forestry resources. The Forestry
Code of 1988 gives particular importance to the human factor and promotes the association of the forest
users in the management and operation of the forestry programs. This is a new policy approach based on
an integrated model of protection and production, aimed at improving the socio-economic conditions and
revenues of the forest users.
2.35          The forestry component of the 7th Development Plan (1987-1991) appears to have been
relatively successful in attaining physical goals. It achieved or surpassed eight of the fifteen goals set. In
a number of cases, goals were very substantially exceeded (forestry plantation, forestry roads construction
and maintenance, and parasite control).  The poorest levels of implementation were for firebreak
construction and forestry boundary marking.
2.36          Government has embarked on an ambitious ten-year (1990-2000) program  comprising
reforestation, anti-desertification measures in the arid South, fodder plantation, range management, and soil
and water conservation works. The objectives of this program and its comparison with those fixed for the
8th Development Plan (1992-1996) are indicated in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2: Forestry Development Objectives
10 year program          8th Plan
1990-2000            1992-1996
(ha)
Reforestation                        320,000               90,000
Forest Regeneration                   54,000               35,000
Fodder Plantation                    400,000              100,000
Range Management                    2,200,000             300,000
I. Investments in the Sub-sector
2.37          Total public investments of the forestry and of the soil and water conservation subsector
and their comparison with the agriculture sector are indicated in Table 2.3.
Table 2.3: Investments in the Subsector
(million D)
Period          1962-1971    1972-1976   1977-1981    1982-1986      1987-1991     1992-1996
4th Plan    5th Plan     6th Plan      7th Plan      8th Plan
Forest and SWC    68.8  25.3    22.3  9.5    43.8 7.5    100.0 6.5   146.6 8.1     483.4 17.5
Agriculture      272.0        235.1       584.0         1360.0       1799.0        2755.9
SWC- Soil and Water Conservation



- 11 -
This table shows that, after a period of important efforts (1962-1974) during which the percentage of
investments in the subsector was about 25 percent of the entire agriculture sector, this percentage dropped
sharply about 6 percent. The reason for this decline was that Government considered that the forestry
operations carried out under the Plans had been ineffective. Certainly, production of wood had not kept
pace with the increasing demand; the added responsibility since 1974 of the DGF in protection of
watersheds and of the vast rangelands of the country without a significant increase of staff and a reduced
budget, contributed to this apparent poor performance.
2.38          In view of the satisfactory performance of the subsector during the 7th Plan (para. 2.35),
Government became more ambitious in setting goals for the current Plan. It is likely that some of the
proposed goals might be very difficult to achieve but the Plan shows Government's determination to
support forestry programs and to protect national resources.
J. Constraints Relevant to the Project
2.39          The major constraints to developing the forestry sector are the following:
(a)    Social: The development of the forestry sector is hampered by the relatively high density
of population. This continues to be a serious constraint, in spite of efforts to provide
employment for forest users in Government programs. Livestock production is an
important traditional activity in the forestry national estate. The resource pressure caused
by livestock affects reforestation and regeneration programs. The integration of fodder
crops in the agriculture exploitations to meet the livestock food requirements needs to be
pursued to alleviate this pressure on the forest. In addition, increasing population leads
to forest clearing for agriculture production for self consumption and for firewood.
Temporary work provided by Government programs is only a partial solution. Besides,
these programs tend to be concentrated on areas where the social problems exist and not
necessarily where the forestry development should be done. The Project would address
this constraint through promoting and implementing the participating approach in forest
management.  It will seek population involvement in designing sylvo-pastoral
development programs (para. 5.06); it will promote the legal basis for their organization
in associations (para. 2.29) and for financial support and incentives (para. 2.30); and it
will test in the field procedures and methods in pilot operations with NGO's assistance
(para. 4.21).
(b)    Forest Management:  The implementation of the existing forest management and
conservation plans are hampered by the lack of staff and equipment and also by
insufficient funding. In addition, some plans need to be updated and new ones prepared.
The Project would address this issue through financing the preparation of new
management plans (para. 4.06) and by strengthening the DGF (para. 4.21).
(c)    Utilization of Forest Resources: Neither the DREF nor the private sector are equipped
to develop the maximum value of the wood; in addition, technology is lacking for
processing wood products, and financial incentives are insufficient for small
entrepreneurs. This leads to a low volume of exploitation and to poor product quality.
Little has been done so far to develop the economic role of non-wood forest products.
The Project would address this issue by financing studies to identify constraints and
recommend improvement in the fuel wood, sawn wood, and industrial wood sectors
(para. 4.16). The Project would also finance training programs (paras. 4.17, 4.18) and
applied research themes (para. 4.20) aimed at improving the value of wood and non-
wood resources, and will promote the legal basis for financial support and incentives to
entrepreneurs (para. 2.31).



- 12 -
III. BANK LENDING IN AGRICULTURE AND PAST PERFORMANCE
A. Past Lending in Agriculture
3.01          Bank group lending to Tunisia began in 1967. To date, 101 loans and credits have been
made, supported by US$4.4 billion Bank and IDA funds, net of cancellations. In agriculture, 16 projects
have been completed and five are being implemented, totalling US$573.4 million of Bank group lending.
These include: two Fisheries projects, the First and Second Fisheries Projects (FY72 and 80), both
completed; seven irrigation projects, of which four are completed-Irrigation Rehabilitation (FY75), Sidi
Salem Multipurpose Irrigation (FY78), Southern Irrigation (FY79), Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation
Development (FY82), and Central Tunisia Irrigation (FY83)-and two are ongoing projects-Irrigation
Management Improvement (FY86) and Gabes Irrigation (FY86); four agricultural credit projects (FY72,
77, 81 and 88), all completed), three area development projects, Cooperative Farm (FY67), Northwest
Rural Development (FY82) and Northwest Agricultural Production (FY85); a Grain Storage and
Distribution Proiect (FY82, completed); two Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans (FY87 and 89) one
of which has been satisfactorily completed; and an ongoing Forestry Development (FY88) and
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (FY91).  The Technical Assistance Project (FY83,
completed) included an agriculture component. The Bank is also supervising the IFAD financed Sidi
Bouzid Irrigation Proiect (FY84).
3.02          Performance of Bank-financed projects in agriculture has generally been satisfactory. The
PCRs of the Irrigation Projects show that the economic rates of return of the projects are generally higher
than at appraisal mainly due to the higher value of production and better use of existing land and
infrastructure resulting from more reliable water supply. However, the establishment of water users'
associations to take over the responsibility for O&M of irrigation schemes needs to be pursued more
vigorously and proper monitoring and evaluation are important but often inadequate. The closing date
of the Irrigation Management Improvement Project was recently extended by two years to make up for
delays caused by a one year delay in loan effectiveness followed later by management problems, and in
1989 by the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture which had an important impact on the
institutional component of the Project (the functions of the irrigation development agencies were merged
with those of the CRDA in the field to create a unique structure at Governorate level called CRDA). The
Project is, however, progressing well under new management since 1991. In contrast to the First Credit
Project, the Second Credit Project provided investment credit to small/medium farmers who, up to 1976,
had limited access to institutional credit.  The PCRs of the First Three Credit Projects note that
disbursements were affected by competition with Government credit schemes offering loans at lower
interest rates, subsidized and by lack of profitability of agricultural operations. The PCR of the Fourth
Credit Project underscores the need to continue institutional and financial improvements at the National
Agricultural Bank (BNA) level through increased interest rates, the phasing-out of Government-subsidized
credit schemes, recovery discipline and BNA reorganization on a decentralized basis to allow it to reach
a larger number of farmers and gradually assume full responsibility for all credit decisions without
Government interference.
3.03          Under the area development projects, the Cooperative Farm  Project illustrated the
difficulty of bringing or holding independent farmers together under any system of collective management
(cooperatives) to which they give up some rights to land in return for inadequate economic incentives.
The Northwest Rural Development Proiect mainly achieved its targets in construction of infrastructure.
However, less than satisfactory progress was made under the nature conservation and agricultural
production components. This was mainly due to organizational deficiencies, staff shortages, land tenure
and use patterns, and lack of producer group promotion. The lessons of this project, particularly
concerning the need for a participatory approach to involve the beneficiaries in sub-project selection,
execution and maintenance, will be incorporated in the follow-on Development of the Mountainous North-
West Region Project and in the proposed Forestry II Project (organization of AFICs). Only about 40



- 13 -
percent ($5.8 m.) of the originally approved loan amount of the Northwest Agricultural Production
Project was disbursed when the loan closed in May 1992. The Project suffered from a top-down
management structure and frequent turnover of management and other staff. Experience with the Project
has also shown that for extension programs to work and be sustainable, they need to be well-designed
and tailored to the needs of the various categories of farmers who should actively participate in
demonstrations of new technologies and training programs. The Agricultural Research and Extension
Project has used the lessons of this Project to carry out a nationwide reorganization of research and
extension services. The ASAL-I Loan was completed successfully and fully disbursed in October 1989.
The second tranche of the ASAL-II was released in February 1993.
B. The Forestrv Development Project - Loan 2870-TUN
3.04         The first Forestry Development Project (PDFI) (FY88 Loan 2870-TUN for US$20 m.)
is currently under implementation and scheduled to close on December 31, 1995. The main objectives
of the PDFI are to increase fuelwood and industrial wood production to meet domestic needs, to improve
forest grasslands and range management and to preserve the environment. The Project components
include thinning of some 5,000 ha of conifer plantations and exploitation of some 21,000 ha of natural
forest together with a corresponding regeneration program, establishment of some 10,000 ha of fast
growing plantations, improvement of integrated forest management of two degraded natural forests
(6,000 ha), improvement of some 3,400 ha of pasture and rangeland adjacent to forest regeneration,
preparation of a national inventory and development plan for forest resources, provision of technical
assistance, training, and equipment to forestry-related departments, improvement of seed collection and
forest nurseries, and distribution of selected trees; and provision of nature conservation measures.
3.05         The Project is designed as a pilot operation which would provide the basis for a larger
investment program in forestry. By the end of 1992, the physical implementation of the Project was
being completed with 84 percent of total investments costs committed and it is achieving its objectives
for the exploitation, regeneration, plantation and pasture improvement components. The nature protection
component is progressing well; however, its impact is difficult to evaluate. Research is implementing
its program, but results readily applicable in the field are still missing. The forestry roads component
has not yet been fully executed but it is expected to make up for delays after implementing a recently
agreed solution, based on technical assistance followed by small regional contracts awarded after local
competitive bidding. Completion of the forest inventory and Forest Development Plan have been delayed
by two years to June 1994 due to difficulties with the consultant contract and with procurement of
specialized equipment. The project has led to increased wood production, strengthened the DGF and the
regional Forestry Departments (AF) and initiated the involvement of population in the rangeland
operations associated with forest regeneration and plantations.
C. Lessons Learned
3.06         The PDF1, as the first forestry operation financed by the Bank in Tunisia, has been a
testing ground to provide the technical and institutional basis for a larger operation in the future, and is
being implemented satisfactorily. Execution techniques and methods have been tested, costs firmed up,
price distortions and monopolistic situations have been eliminated, and implementation agencies and
population have started to develop new awareness of the need for an environmentally sound exploitation
of forest resources. However, steps initiated with the FDP should be pursued and consolidated, in
particular concerning integrated forestry development and active participation of the population. Also,
measures to enhance the value of Tunisian wood should be intensified and expanded. The difficulties
experienced during the execution of the soil preparation for new plantations and of the rangeland
development, the understanding of procurement procedures, the deep involvement of all sectors directly
or indirectly participating in the forestry development through the Forestry Coordination Committee
(FCC), and the experience gained by the Project Management Unit (PMU) are assets and lessons which
have been incorporated in the design of the proposed Second Forestry Development Project (PDF2).



- 14 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.01          The recently updated country assistance strategy identifies natural resource management
and the environment as key development issues for Tunisia and on which the Bank will play a leadership
role in helping the Government through lending, analytical work, and donor coordination. In particular,
the country assistance strategy, building on the Bank-supported National Environment Action Plan (1990),
recognizes prevention of deforestation, soil erosion and watershed degradation of hydrological resources
as critical needs, and the role of improved forest management and conservation in addressing them. In
view of the success of the first Forestry Development Project (loan 2870-TUN), Government is strongly
interested in continuing to build up a fruitful relationship with the Bank and to benefit from the Bank's
assistance in consolidation and expansion of the sector, increasing the role of the private sector,
strengthening users' associations, ensuring and strengthening the use of sound principles of environment
protection and conservation of the natural resources. The Bank brings its experience in other Maghreb
countries to the difficult endeavor of building popular participation in sector development such as through
forest users' associations.
B. Concept and Objectives
4.02          In 1990 Government embarked in an ambitious forestry development program  of
reforestation, forest regeneration and rangeland management. It has also been decided that this program
would be implemented with active participation of the users of the forestry resources. Since 1988, the
FDP has initiated actions to attaining the targets of the program. By the time the FDP is completed in
1993-1994, it will have made an important contribution to the development of the sector and for a better
management of the exploitation of Tunisian forestry resources. However, the expansion and consolidation
of the initiated activities should follow to ensure and increase the implementation rythm of the program
and to contribute to the sustainability of the investments already made. The Project would take a slice
of the 1990-2000 program; Government has earmarked the Project as part of the 8th Development Plan.
4.03          While augmenting production to meet a growing demand for wood products and
addressing acute environmental pressures, the Project would promote sustainable integrated development
and management of the Tunisian forest resources with an active involvement of the forestry population
and the private sector. Specifically the Project would: (a) augment the environmental services provided
by forests, including reduction of soil erosion and increased water retention; (b) improve social conditions
of the poor population dependent on the forest; (c) intensify quality wood production when and where
this is sustainable; (d) develop forest rangelands to relieve grazing pressure on the forests; and
(e) preserve the country's nature and wildlife heritage.
C. Components
4.04          The Project would have seven components:
(a)    Forest Management: Preparation of management plans covering 85,000 ha across sites
selected for environmental services and production potential, execution of forest
infrastructure (roads, firebreaks, housing, observation towers), assisted regeneration of
19,200 ha of Aleppo pine and cork oak forest, and sylvicultural works (thinning) over
52,000 ha of natural forest and plantations of pine, cypress, and eucalyptus;
(b)    Plantations: Establishment of new plantations (25,400 ha) in the National Forest Estate
(NFE), 4,100 ha of stream bank plantations for riparian protection, 500 ha of plantations
on private farmland, and establishment of nurseries;
(c)    Forest Pasture and Ranee Improvement:  Reduction of grazing pressure on forest
resources over about 14,000 ha, through the establishment of new prairies (1,550 ha),



- 15 -
fodder plantations (7,150 ha), rangeland improvement (2,350 ha), cactus plantations
(1,550 ha), and pasture rehabilitation (1,400 ha); a training and technical assistance
program would help implementing the component;
(d)    Wood Exploitation and Value Enhancement: Studies on the wood processing, secondary
forest products, and training in wood exploitation and processing;
(e)    National Parks and Reserves: Improving management and strengthening equipment of
national parks and reserves and providing means to control and protect wildlife;
(f)    Forestry Research: Project related applied research programs;
(g)    Institutional Development and Pilot Operations: Strengthening the Forestry Department
(DGF) and the regional Government agencies (AF) and assist them in implementing the
Project, including the setting up and operation of integrated forest pilot operations with
Non-Governmental Agencies (NGO) assistance.
Three of the above components, Forest Management Plantations, Forest Pasture and Range Improvement
are closely inter-related and are in reality part of a single, integrated component-forestry development.
They have been split into separate components for clarity of presentation and to facilitate identification
of activities during Project implementation.
D. Detailed Features
Forest Management
4.05          In the framework of the gradual execution of forestry management programs, the Project
would finance preparation of new management plans, execution of forestry infrastructure, and
sylvicultural works in young plantations and natural forest.
4.06          Forest Management Plans: These plans would cover 85,000 ha. They would comprise
9,000 ha in cork oak natural forest and 35,000 ha already defined in plantations located in the AF of
Ariana, Beja, Bizerte, Jendouba, Nabeul and Zaghouan. The balance of 41,000 ha would be identified
during the Project implementation period. These new plans would be improved, compared to the
existing plans. They would develop a broader approach to integrated sylvopastoral management, take
social problems into account explicitly and be both simplified on the technical side and more operational.
They would be prepared with the assistance of consultants but with close monitoring and participation
of the DGF.
4.07          Forestry Infrastructure: The component comprises the construction of 100 km and the
rehabilitation of 700 km of forestry roads, the opening of 240 km of firebreaks, the construction of 8 and
the rehabilitation of 30 houses for foresters, the construction of 25 observation towers, and the supply
of communication equipment and water tanks. The project would also include payment for incremental
recurrent costs for maintaining roads, fire breaks, constructions, and operation of equipment.
4.08          Sylvicultural Works: The component deals with both forest regeneration and thinning
of natural forest stands and plantations. Regeneration works would include (i) a 5,000 ha program for
cork oak, including mainly coppicing but also pilot seeding and plantation, in the AFs of Beja, Ain-
Drahan, Bizerte, and Jendouba; and (ii) assisted regeneration of 14,200 ha of Aleppo pine in the AFs
of Beja, le Kef, Kasserine, Siliana, and Zaghouan. Thinning operations would deal with (i) 2,300 ha of
cork oak coppices in the AFs of Ain Draham and Jendouba, and 20,600 ha of young stands of natural
Aleppo pine in the AFs of Le Kef, Kasserine, Kairouan, Zaghouan, and Siliana; (ii) 7,900 ha of
eucalyptus coppices in the AFs of Ariana, Ben-Arous, Beja, Ain-Draham, Nabeul, and Bizerte, and
21,200 ha of pine plantations in the AFs of Ariana, Ben-Arous, Beja, Ain Draham, Nabeul Bizerte, and
Siliana.



- 16 -
Plantations
4.09          The component would include the plantation of about 25,400 ha of pine, eucalyptus, and
acacia in the National Forestry Estate (NFE), 4,100 ha of poplar, eucalyptus, and acacia along stream
banks, 500 ha in agricultural lands, and 500 ha of wind breaks in irrigated perimeters.
4. 10         Plantations in the NFE. This program would comprise 8,200 ha of plantations in humid
and sub-humid zones mainly for production of wood and non-wood products, and 17,250 ha of
plantations in the semi-arid zones, mainly to rehabilitate degraded natural forest cover and enhance
environment protection functions of the NFE. In the selection of plantations sites, priority has been given
to those areas which would have a greater positive impact on environmental protection, in particular on
soil erosion. Works would only start after a detailed ecological and social analysis of each site is carried
out with the involvement of local population (para. 5.06). Species would include 70 percent of pines,
mainly the native Aleppo pine, and 30 percent broadleaved species, mainly Eucalyptus. About 75 percent
of these plantations would be established after mechanized soil preparation, when soil and topography
permit, to ensure adequate water supply to young seedlings, and optimal survival and smooth initial
growth of young stands. The other 25 percent would be established after manual soil preparation on steep
slopes and/or more fragile soil conditions. Mechanized techniques were tested during the PDFI and
manual techniques have been developed since the early 1960s. Plantations would be established in the
12 AFs according to Table 4.
4.11          Plantations along stream banks. In view of the success of this program in the PDFI, the
Project would finance 4,100 ha equivalent of line plantations along stream banks in the AFs of Beja,
Kairouan, Jendouba, Ain Draham, and Nabeul. The areas would vary between 450 ha and 1,300 ha per
AF.
4.12          Plantations in Private Land. In the framework of incentives to the private sector to
participate in forest plantation and exploitation, the Project would finance pilot and demonstration
plantations including about 500 ha of poplar on private agricultural land, over several AFs, and about
500 ha of windbreaks in irrigated perimeters in the AFs Ariana and Nabeul.
4.13          Nurseries. In addition to financing the improvement of 40 existing nurseries operating
with traditional methodologies, the Project would finance the introduction and testing of new and
improved technologies for the production of seedlings in two pilot nurseries. It would include provision
for the purchase and installation of equipment and materials (containers, irrigation systems, shades,
pumps, tractors). This program would be implemented in close collaboration and with the assistance of
the INRF in the context of the research component (Annex 7).
Forest Pasture and Range Improvement
4.14          The Project would finance the improvement of about 14,000 ha of rangeland. This
program aims to compensate temporary loss of grazing land by local population resulting from
regeneration and plantation activities of the project; each element of this program will be designed as part
of the above mentioned management plans and/or ecological and social analysis (para. 4.10). Pasture
and range improvement would include: (i) about 550 ha of permanent prairies in humid and sub-humid
zones of the AFs of Beja, Ain Draham, Le Kef, Zaghouan, Bizerte, and Siliana; (ii) about 1,000 ha of
permanent prairies in the semi-arid zone of the AFs of Beja, Le Kef, Kasserine, Kairouan, Bizerte, and
Siliana; (iii) about 350 ha of improved pastures in the humid and semi-humid zones of the AFs of
Jendouba and Siliana; (iv) about 2,000 ha of improved pastures in the semi-arid zones of the AFs of
Jendouba, Le Kef, and Siliana; (v) about 1,550 ha of cactus plantations in the semi-arid zones of the AFs
of Le Kef, Siliana, and Kasserine; (vi) about 1,250 ha of acacia plantations in humid and semi-humid
zones of the AFs of Ben Arous, Beja, Jendouba, Kasserine, Nabeul, Zaghouan, Bizerte, and Siliana; (vii)
about 5,900 ha of acacia plantations in the semi-arid zones of the AFs of Ariana, Beja, Jendouba, Le Kef,



- 17 -
Kasserine, Kairouan, Nabeul, Zaghouan, Bizerte, and Siliana; (viii) about 1,400 ha of rehabilitation of
pastures in the semi-arid zones of the AFs of Le Kef. The techniques and compensation criteria used are
indicated in Annex 4.
4.15          The Project would also provide for a training program including study tours, training
courses abroad, local training, and technical assistance to assist local training, and for specialized
technical short term consultants.
Wood Exploitation and Value Enhancement
4.16          Existing information on the demand and availability of fuelwood is neither consistent nor
reliable. However, fuelwood is the largest consumed forest product and its illegal exploitation may be
very detrimental to the environment. The sawn wood sector is responsible for an important volume of
imports. An improved exploitation of the Tunisian resources could replace part of these imported wood.
The local industry of plywood and particle board meets internal consumption, but it utilizes not only the
available chip wood but other wood which could be better valued as sawn wood. Finally, value
enhancement of the secondary forest products may contribute to the socio-economic progress of the
population living inside or in the forest borders and make them better understand the role of the forest
, therefore helping to preserve natural resources. Studies carried out under the PDF1 are of specialized
nature and do not give an overall perspective of the issues at national level. To clarify the situation and
propose a plan of action to correct distortions, the Project would support the preparation of studies
covering fuel, sawn, and industrial wood, and secondary products of the forest. Terms of reference for
these studies are contained in Annex 5.
4.17          In order to improve wood exploitation, the Project would expand training provided under
the PDF1 and would finance a comprehensive program on improved exploitation techniques. This
training would also take place in the Professional Training Center of Remel (CFPR). The Project would
finance technical assistance to help the CFPR to set up and monitor the program, and the purchase of
demonstration equipment (terms of reference for this assistance are indicated in Annex 5). The program
would aim to train about 750 forest workers of the private sector. It would also include training of the
CFPR staff (12 MM). Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that the CFPR would ensure
preparation and implementation of the training programs no later than December 31, 1994.
4.18          In the framework of improving the way wood is processed, the Project would focus on
improving secondary forest industries, such as those related to sawing, drying, and particle boards. The
forestry industry is not yet included in the Tunisian professional training program. However, the Center
of Pedagogic Resources and Engineering (CRIP) of the Ministry of Professional Training and
Employment (MFPE) is capable and ready to provide this training. The Project would finance a program
for training in secondary industries including the services of a consultant to identify and set up a training
program in the CRIP (terms of reference for this assistance are also indicated in Annex 5). On a starting
phase the Project would finance the rehabilitation of a small sawing plant already existing in CFPR to
complement the training program on exploitation.
National Parks and Reserves
4.19          This component would include: (i) materials and equipment to complete the equipment
of the National Parks of Bou-Hedma, Chambi, El Feidja, and Sidi Toui (5 four-wheel drive vehicles,
5 tractors, two trucks, 21 motorcycles, fences, electrification, and miscellaneous equipment); (ii) training
of staff (training courses abroad, study tours, technical assistance); and (iii) operation and maintenance
costs of vehicles and equipment.



- 18 -
Forestry Research
4.20          In order to identify technical solutions to be used in the Project but essentially as
background information for the preparation of the future Socio-Economic Development Plans, the Project
proposes eleven research themes (Annex 7). These themes would deal namely with improvement of
Tunisian wood, ecological demands of forest species, growth and yield tables, thinning systems for pine
plantations, artificial regeneration and intensified management of cork oak, forest protection, and
environment impact of forest development. The INRF would carry out the necessary research activities
for these themes which would require financing additional investment and operating costs including:
(i) materials and equipment (laboratory equipment for wood technology, a neutron probe, camping
equipment, and four vehicles); (ii) recruitment of specialized services of consultants; (iii) training (study
tours, documentation and technical assistance); and (iv) operating costs of vehicles and equipment. One
of these themes is related to new technologies on nurseries (para. 4.13). Assurances have been obtained
at negotiations that beginning 1994 the INRF would implement the research program foreseen and
detailed in Annex 7 and prepare semi-annual progress reports in respect thereof.
Institutional Development and Pilot Operations
4.21          Re-enforcing the institutional assistance provided under the PDFI, and in order to
implement a larger scale Project, the DGF and the regional agencies (CRDA/AF) need additional
strengthening through the provision of staff, vehicles and equipment, training, and increased annual
operating budget allocations. The Project would include: (i) 19 additional technical staff (7 engineer,
economist, agro-forester, sociologist, accountant and personnel manager, for the PMU and 12 engineers
for the AFs; (ii) training of about 100 agents, of which 20 representatives of the population (training
courses abroad, study tours, local training) for a total of 50 m-m ; (iii) technical assistance (12 in-m)
based on short term consultants in extension, sociology, and monitoring techniques; (iv) vehicles and
equipment (6 light vehicles, 31 four-wheel drive vehicles, computers; (v) implementation of about 10 pilot
operations of integrated rural development to consolidate the role and the socio-economic situation of the
forest users' associations; these pilot operations which would be implemented in close collaboration with
NGOs would emphasize sub-programs on women's development and would determine practical basis for
the promulgation of the AFIC legal instruments; and (vii) related operating costs of vehicles and
equipment.
E. Status of Design
4.22          With the exception of the integrated pilot operations and the pilot plantations on private
land, areas for Project works have been identified. All but the plantations on private land are located in
the NFE and availability of required land is assured. Standard architectural plans and specifications are
available for most of Project buildings and constructions. With the execution of the PDFI, the DGF has
become familiar and knowledgeable about Bank procedures for execution of works, supply of goods and
recruitment of consultants. Reference tender documents have been prepared and approved by the Bank
for the PDFI and they can be used for the Project. The precise location of the 10 integrated pilot
operations has not yet been done.  During negotiations assurances have been obtained that this
identification would be completed prior to loan effectiveness.
F. Costs
4.23          Over the six year implementation period (1994-1999), the total cost of the Project is
estimated at US$148.1 million (D125.9 million) with an estimated foreign exchange component of
US$53.9 million (D45.9 million) or 36 percent of the total Project cost. The cost estimate includes taxes
and duties, totaling US$25.4 million (D21.6 million) or 17.2 percent of total Project cost. Costs are
summarized in Table 4.1 and shown by year in Table I and by summary account in Table 2.



- 19 -
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary
(D nillion)                (USS nidlion)
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    % For.             %
Exc.    Base Costs
A. FOREST MANAGEMENT
Equipment                                                   0.2       0.2       0.4      0.3       0.2      0.5         43          0
Forest Works                                                11.9      2.1      14.0      14.0      2.5      16.5        15          14
Constructions                                                1.8      1.7       3.5      2.1       2.0       4.1        51          4
Studies                                                      0.7      0.2       0.9      0.9       0.2       1.1        20           1
Recurrent Costs                                             0.2       0.1       0.3      0.3       0.1       0.4        53          0
Subtotal                                                 14.8      4.3      19.1      17.4      5.1      22.5        23          20
B. PLANTATIONS                                                                                                                           0
Vehicles and Equipment                                      0.2       0.4       0.6      0.2       0.5       0.7        70           1
Plantations                                                 30.6      21.7     52.3      36.0     25.5      61.5        42          54
Constructions                                                0.2      0.3       0.5      0.2       0.4       0.6        45           1
Maintenance                                                 0.1       0.1       0.2      0.1       0.1       0.2        72          0
Subtotal                                                 31.1      22.5     53.6      36.6      26.5     63.1        42          55
C. PASTURE AND RANGE IMPROVEMENT                                                                                                          0
Plantations                                                 5.8       4.1       9.9      6.8       4.8      11.6        41          10
Train.. Techn. Assist.                                       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         68          0
Maintenance                                                  1.3      0.2       1.5      1.6       0.2      1.8         10          2
Subtotal                                                  7.2      4.2      11.4      8.5       4.9      13.4        37          12
D. WOOD EXPLOITATION AND VALUE ENHANCEMENT                                                                                               0
Vehicles and Equipment                                      0.2       0.2       0.4      0.3       0.2      0.5         64          0
Train., Techn. Assist.                                       0.1      1.1       1.2      0.1       1.3       1.4        92           1
Re.curTent Costs                                            0.1       0.1       0.2      0.1       0.1      0.2         62          0
Subtotal                                                  0.4      1.4       1.8      0.5       1.6       2.1        76           2
E. NATIONAL PARKS AND RESERVES                                                                                                           0
Vehicles and Equipment                                      0.3       0.3       0.6      0.3       0.4      0.7         54           1
Constructions                                                0.1      0.0       0.1      0.1       0.0      0.1         20          0
Tram., Techn. Assist.                                        0.0      0.1       0.1      0.0       0.1      0.1        100          0
Recurrent Costs                                             0.2       0.3      0.5       0.2       0.4      0.6         54          1
Subtotal                                                  0.6      0.7       1.3      0.7       0.8       1.5        53           1
F. FORESTRY RESEARCH                                                                                                                     0
Vehicles and Equipment                                      0.5       0.2       0.7      0.6       0.2      0.8         29          1
Train.. Techln. Assist.                                      0.0      0.9       0.9      0.0       1.1       1.1       100          1
Subtotal                                                  0.2      1.4       1.6      0.3       1.6       1.9        85          2
G. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PILOT OPERATIONS                                                                                        0
Vehicles and Equipment                                      0.8       0.6       1.4      0.9       0.7       1.6        41          1
Train.. Te.hn. Assist.                                      0.1       0.2       0.3      0.2       0.2      0.4         67          0
Pilot Operations                                            4.1       1.0      5.1       4.8       1.2      6.0         20          5
Staff DGF                                                   0.4       0.0       0.4      0.5       0.0      0.5         0           0
Staff AF                                                    0.2       0.0       0.2      0.2       0.0      0.2         0           0
OtherOperatingCosta                                          0.3      0.9       1.2      0.3       1.1       1.4        31           1
Subtotal                                                  5.9      2.7       8.6      6.9       3.2      10.1        31          9
Total BASE LINE COSTS                                            60.2     37.2      97.4      70.9     43.8      114.7       3S         100
Physical Contingencies                                      6.0       3.7       9.7      7.1       4.4      11.5        38          10
Price Contingencies                                         13.8      4.9      18.7      16.2      5.8      22.0        26          19
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              80.0     45.8      125.8    94.2      53.9    148.1         36         129
4.24                 Base costs expressed  in  January  1993  prices were derived  from   similar contracts either
procured under the PDF1 or more recently signed, from market surveys, and best assessment of actual costs
for works executed under force account by the DGF, DREF and other Government agencies. Physical
contingencies have been allowed in general at the rate of 10 percent. Price contingencies have been
calculated on the basis of the annual projected inflation rates applied to local and foreign costs, including
physical contingencies as shown in Table 4.2.



- 20 -
Table 4.2: Price Contingencies
(percent)
1993    1994    199S    1996    1997       1998      1999
Local costs              5.6     4.1      6.7      4.5     4.8      5.0       5.1
Foreign costs            3.8     1.9      2.7      3.4     3.6      3.6       3.6
Source: World Bank (Operational Directive 6.50 for foreign contingencies, Country Operations for local)
G. Financing
4.25          A Bank loan of US$69 million to the Government of Tunisia is proposed to finance the
foreign exchange component of the Project investment costs (excluding the cost of the firewood study
financed by the African Development Bank) and the local investment costs corresponding to the mechanized
soil preparation for the plantation component of the Project. The balance of funds required would be
financed by Government and Project beneficiaries. Participation of Project beneficiaries, estimated at
US$4.2 million equivalent, corresponds to the cost of maintaining prairies, pastures, plantations in private
agricultural land, and windbreaks established under the Project, and to the repayment of part of investment
costs for these plantations and windbreaks. The Bank loan would cover 46.6 percent of Project costs (56.2
percent of Projects costs net of taxes and duties). Project costs would be shared in the amounts and
proportions shown in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Project Financing
Local     Foreign       Total     % of Net
US$ M Equivalent        Project Costs
World Bank                 18.1       50.9         69.0         56.2
African Development Bank      -       0.7           0.7          0.6
Beneficiaries               4.2        -            4.2          3.4
Govermment                 46.5        2.3         48.8         39.8
Net project Costs        68.8       53.9        122.7        100.0
Taxes and Duties         25.4         -          25.4         20.7
Total Project Costs      94.2       53.9        148.1        120.7
4.26           The proposed Bank loan would be for 17 years, including 5 years of grace.  The
Government would earmark the loan proceeds to DGF through its annual budget to finance proposed project
activities. In addition, to ensure the timely availability of funds to finance labor costs for activities carried
out by force account, beginning with FY94 and before the end of each FY, Government should provide
funds out of its own resources through regional revolving funds to cover at least the anticipated annual
Project expenditures to finance such activities. Assurances to this effect have been obtained at negotiations.
H. Procurement
4.27          Table 4.4 summarizes the Project elements and their estimated costs and proposed methods
of procurement.
4.28          Mechanized clearing and soil preparation for forest plantations and range improvement
(US$43.81 million) would be procured by ICB on a slice-and-package basis estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$1 million or more, to provide the opportunity for small domestic contractors to participate. It is



- 21 -
estimated that some of the contracts for soil preparation would include planting (US$4.40 million). ICB
would also be used for the purchase of vehicles, tractors and implements (US$2.46 million), for machines
and equipment (US$1.06 million) and for miscellaneous equipment (US$1.00 million). Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference of 15 percent of CIF bid price of the imported
goods or the actual custom duties and import taxes whichever is lower. Planting not included in the
contracts for soil preparation costing US$1 million equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregated
amount of US$20.25 million, sylvicultural works (thinning, regeneration) (US$15.00), roads, firebreaks
(US$3.89 million), buildings and minor works (US$1.80 million) are dispersed and in remote locations.
They are not expected to interest the international community of bidders and they would be procured by
LCB acceptable to the Bank. The major international manufacturers of equipment are well represented in
Tunisia and LCB is an adequate procedure for procuring minor machinery, tools, and miscellaneous
equipment. Vehicles, machines, and equipment costing US$200,000 equivalent or less per contract would
also be procured by LCB, provided the aggregate cost of all vehicles and equipment so awarded would not
exceed US$1.00 million equivalent. Sylvicultural works costing less than US$100,000 per contract up to
an aggregated amount of US$3.70 million, roads and firebreaks costing US$100,000 or less to an
aggregated amount of US$0.40 million located in remote areas, and tending operations included in the
plantations component would preferably be executed by local shopping (LS). Also, manual clearing and
soil preparation, soil preparation for plantations along banks of streams, on private land, or for windbreaks
costing US$100,000 or less per contract up to an aggregated amount of US$13.12 million, would be
procured preferably by LS. These operations do not interest traditionally established contractors of works.
However, LS procured regionally by the AFs could serve as an additional means to involve the private
sector in the forest development. FA would only be used instead of LS with prior approval of the Bank
as a last resource when no response could be obtained under LS. Both DGF and CRDA/AF are
experienced in executing works and constructions on Force Account. Accounting control of the execution
of these works under standard Government procedures are acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports
prepared during the implementation of the PDFI show that these procedures are in compliance with the
Bank SOE procedures requirements. It is anticipated that FA might be used for about 10 percent of this
optional LS/FA procedure or US$3.00 million. Training (US$0.82 million) would be obtained by direct
arrangement with organizations known to provide training on the required themes. Consultants for the
preparation of studies (US$2.87 million) and for technical assistance (US$0.73 million) would be selected
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Electrification connecting works to the eco-museum (US$0.09 million)
would be executed by the Societe Tunisienne d'Electricite et du Gaz (STEG) through Direct Contracting;
STEG is the public company solely authorized to execute rural electrification works. Tending and
maintaining rangeland, pastures, and prairies (US$3.50 million) will be the direct responsibility of
beneficiaries therefore procurement is inapplicable. The 10 integrated pilot projects (US$7.46 million) are
expected to be procured with the assistance of NGO under special contract arrangements acceptable to the
Bank.
4.29         The DGF through the Project Management Unit (PMU) is the principal agency responsible
for carrying out Project ICB and LCB procurement procedures. During the implementation of the PDF I,
the DGF staff was trained and became familiar with Bank procedures and with the method to implement
Work Bank Guidelines for the purchase of goods, execution of works, and recruitment of consultants.
Reference bidding documents and invitation letters have been prepared by the PMU and approved by the
Bank. Under the PDFI, training was also provided to regional staff to supervise field works. Therefore,
no particular training in procurement is anticipated for the Project, besides the assistance to be provided by
Bank supervision missions. The regional agencies, CRDA/AF will particularly be dealing with LS/FA for
sylvicultural works, tending, and other minor works which they are sufficiently familiar with and which they
also executed satisfactorily during the PDFI.
4.30         A Country Procurement Assessment Report is being prepared but has not yet been
completed. Although Tunisian ICB and LCB procedures are generally acceptable to the Bank, there are



- 22 -
Table 4.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                    Total
Project Element
ICB      LCB      LSIFA     Other    N.B.F
Cost
1. Works
1. 1 Land clearing and soil preparation     42.63              13.12                       55.75
(38.65)            (2.10)                     (40.75)
1.2 Planting                                 4.40     20.25                                24.65
(0.88)    (4.05)                               (3.94)
1.3 Tending                                                    18.04      2.39 /a          24.43
(4.09)     (-)             (2.88)
1.4 Sylvicultural Works                               15.00     3.70                        18.70
(3.00)    (0.74)                     (2.99)
1.5 Buildings and minor works                          1.80               0.09 /b           1.89
(0.90)            (0.04)             (0.94)
1.6 Roads and firebreaks                               3.89     0.40                        4.29
(1.94)    (0.20)                     (2.14)
1.7 Integrated Pilot Projects                                             7.27 /c           7.27
(7.27)            (7.27)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles, trctors and implements         2.46      0.60                                 3.06
(1.72)    (0.42)                              (2.14)
2.2 Machines and equipment                   1.06      0.20                                 1.26
0. 74)    (0.14)                               (0.88)
2.3 Miscellaneous equipment                  1.00      0.25                                 1.25
(0.68)    (0.20)                              (0.88)
3 Consultants
3.1 Training in Tunisia                                                   0.42              0.42
(0.44)           (0.42)
3.2 Training abroad                                                       0.37              0.37
(0.37)            (0.37)
3.3 Technical assistance                                                  0.71              0.71
(0.71)           (0.71)
3.4 Studies                                                               2.68     0.69     3.37
(2.68)    (-)    (2.68)
4. Incremental Staff and Operating Costs                                    4.66              4.66
()               ()
Total                                    52.75    41.99    34.06      18.59     0.69   148.08
(39.39)   010.71)   (7.41)   (11.49)     (-)   (69.00)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan. N.B.F: Not Bank-Financed
Works and Goods should be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD and
IDA Credits (Washington, D.C., May 1992) and Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank,
Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington,
D.C., August 1981)
/a Maintaining rangeland, pastures and prairies would be the direct responsibility of beneficiaries;
/b To be executed by DC with STEG (Societe Tunisienne d'Electricite et du Gaz);
/c Special contracts to be signed with NGOs.
some aspects which are inconsistent with Bank policy and/or could be improved to ensure better
competition. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that procurement under the Project would be
carried out following procedures acceptable to the Bank, namely, bid opening should be public and no
particular preference should be given to the public sector companies.



- 23 -
4.31         The Project Implementation Schedule is indicated in Chart 1, from which the Estimated
Disbursement Schedule (see Table 4.5) has been derived.
4.32         During project supervision, Bank-financed works contracts above a threshold of US$2.0
million equivalent and consultants contracts above US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's
prior review procedures. The review process will cover 83 percent of the total works contracts value
procured by ICB and LCB (92 percent ICB,; 68 percent LCB). The review would also cover 85 percent
of the consultants contracts. Goods contracts or packages above US$350,000 equivalent would also be
subject to, prior review, covering about 44 percent of the total value of Bank-financed goods. These
percentages are considered satisfactory, since PMU staff gained enough experience and there are reference
bidding documents and letters of invitation to consultants already approved during the implementation of
the PDFI.
4.33         Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    prompt reporting of contract award information by borrower;
(b)    comprehensive semi-annual reports to the Bank by the borrower indicating
(i)   revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including best
estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies:
(ii)   revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award, and completion time for individual contracts;
(iii)  compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement; and
(iv)   a completion report by the borrower within six months of loan's closing date.
I. Disbursement
4.34         In accordance with the Bank standard disbursement profiles, the proposed Bank loan of
US$69 million is expected to be disbursed over nine fiscal years. The detailed schedule of disbursement
is given in Table 3 and summarized in Table 4.5 below:
Table 4.5: Disbursement Schedule                           4
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Disbursements
Annual            0.7     3.4    11.1    13.8    11.0    11.1    13.8    2.7        1.4
Cumulative        0.7     4.1    15.2    29.0    40.0    51.1    64.9    67.6    69.0
4.35         Disbursements would be made after receipt of full documentation, except for goods, civil
works executed by force account, and services provided under contracts valued below US$100,000
equivalent, for which disbursements would be made against certified statement of expenditures (SOE). The
SOE would be certified by the Project implementation agency incurring the expenditure. Supporting
documentation would be retained by the implementation agency and would be made available for inspection
during Bank supervision missions and by external auditors. Disbursement categories, amounts allocated
and share of expenditures to be financed would be as indicated in Table 4.6.
4.36         To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the Project, the Bank would deposit
after loan effectiveness an initial sum up to US$4 million to set up a revolving fund to finance eligible



- 24 -
expenditures corresponding to the Bank's share of four months' project needs. Bank funds would be
deposited in US dollars in a special account at the Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT) and would be channelled
as needed to the Project. Government counterpart funds would be secured through appropriate budget
allocations.
4.37          The Bank would replenish the revolving fund as requested upon receipt of satisfactory
evidence that expenditures made from it were eligible for financing out of the fund. A replenishment
request would normally be sent to the Bank when 50 percent of the revolving fund has been disbursed, i.e.,
about every two to three months. Should any disbursement made from the special account not be acceptable
to the Bank, Government would be required to deposit the corresponding ineligible amount into the special
account, or if the Bank so requests, refund to the Bank an amount equal to the amount not eligible.
Table 4.6: Disbursemnent Categories
Category                        Amount of    % of expenditure to
loan allocated    befinanced
(US$ million)
1. Civil works, buildings, roads, firebreaks            3.2     50 %
2. Forestry Works related to mechanized soil preparation
for reforestation                                    36.2     100 %
3. Forestry works, including manual soil preparation,   13.5    20 % of local and 100% of foreign
planting, thinning, and tending and excluding mechanized      expenditures
soil preparation for reforestation
4. Equipment, vehicles and materials                    4.0     100 % of foreign expenditures,
100 % of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 70 % of local
expenditures for items procured
locally;
5. Consultants' services and training                   4.8      100 %
6. Pilot operations                                     7.3      100 %
Total                                           69.0
4.38          No further deposits into the special account would be made by the Bank when the total
unwithdrawn amount of the part of the loan that is expected to be disbursed at loan closure would be equal
to US$8 million. If it is determined that any amount outstanding in the special account is not required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Govermment would refund to the Bank such amount
outstanding in the special account.



- 25 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization. Management
5.01         The Project Management Unit (PMU) which was established under the PDFI would be
strengthened and its position in the DGF reinforced by having the primary responsibility for the
coordination, management and monitoring of the Project (Chart 2). The Director General of the DGF
would be the national director of the Project and he would delegate executive functions to the Director of
the PMU. The PMU would be directly dependent from the Director General of the DGF and would have
function relationship with the other DGF departments and, at the regional level, with the AFs which would
be involved in the Project implementation.
5.02         The PMU would have five units (Annex 8): (i) Accounting and Financial Management Unit
(AFU) to follow the financial execution of the Project, keep its accounts, and monitor the execution of
contracts; the AFU would be strengthened with three technical staff, a financial expert, an accountant, and
an administrative officer; (ii) Concept, Programming, and Promotion Unit (CPPU) in charge of preparing
Project annual budgets, supervising extension activities, monitoring the use of the Sylvo- Pastoral Fund
(FSP) and promoting forest users' associations activities and the private sector in general; it would be
provided with a communications specialist, and an agro-economist; the CPPU would function under the
responsibility of the Chief of the Forestry Economy Division of the DGF; (iii) Management and Exploitation
Unit (MEU) to implement the Project forest management component; the MEU would function under the
responsibility of Chief of the Studies and Management Monitoring Division of the DGF; (iv) the
Reforestation and Rangeland Unit (RRU) to implement the Project forest pasture and range improvement
component; the RRU which would function under the responsibility of the Chief of the Reforestation
Division of the DGF, would be strengthened with an agro-forester and a range specialist; (v) the
Environment Unit (EU) to implement the Project nature conservation component; the EU would be under
the responsibility of the Chief of the National Parks Division of the DGF. The Director of the PMU would
coordinate the activities of these five units an would establish the liaison with the other departments of DGF
and AFs in the field. During negotiations assurances have been obtained that the setting up of these five
units within the PMU and the provision of the 7 staff to strengthen its new five units would be completed
prior to loan effectiveness.
5.03         The Forestry Coordination Committee (FCC), currently in operation for the PDFI, would
be consolidated and enlarged. It would include representatives of the Ministry of Environment and
Territorial Planning, Ministry of Planning, Ministry of International Cooperation, the private sector involved
in forestry-related activities, and the Union Tunisienne de lI 'ndustrie, du Commerce, et de I 'Artsanat. The
FCC would meet once a year to review, coordinate, and monitor the annual programs of forestry
development in the country and in particular their relationship with the Project. Assurances to this
consolidation and expansion before December 31, 1994 have been obtained at negotiations. The experience
of the PDFI has shown that the FCC is not the right forum to discuss and get guidance on common
technical matters. Therefore, the Project would set up a Technical Monitoring Committee (TMC), before
December 31, 1994, with representation of the DGF/PMU, the CRDA/AF, the DREF, and the INRF to
examine, on a quarterly basis or when requested by the Director General of the DGF, technical issues
related to the Project implementation and give practical guidelines. Assurances to this effect have been
obtained at negotiations.
5.04         Whereas PMU has the mandate at the central level to plan, coordinate, manage, and monitor
the Project implementation, the physical execution is essentially the responsibility of the regional agencies
CRDA/AF. The Chief of each AF involved in the Project assisted by technical staff would supervise and
monitor their execution of the project components in his Governorate. The CRDA/AF would be
strengthened with staff (12 foresters) and the Project would finance a training program, vehicles and other
equipment (para. 4.21) to assist them in implementing the Project.



- 26 -
5.05         All Project activities would be implemented under the responsibility and the coordination
of the DGF, either directly, or through the AFs. However, research would be implemented by the INRF
and training under the Wood Exploitation and Value Enhancement component by the CFPR (para. 4.17)
and by the CRIP (para. 4.18). The DGF, in particular through the PMU, would be in charge of planning,
management, and monitoring Project implementation, whereas the AFs would execute in the field under the
technical supervision and guidance of the DGF. The strengthening in manpower, training and equipment
and the provision of technical assistance financed under the Project (paras. 4.15, 4.17, 4.18, 4.20, and 4.2 1)
would assist the DGF, AFs, the INRF, the CFPR and the CRIP in implementing Project programs.
5.06         The operation and management of the sylvo-pastoral programs included in the Pasture and
Range Improvement component would be the task of the users through their village associations before the
AFICs are formally established. However, the success of this operation and the sustainability of the
investments involved is dependent on the open participation of those users. Therefore, they would be
informed and requested to participate in the design and establishment of the areas in compensation for the
closing to ranging due to plantation or regeneration programs. Assurances that the execution of these
programs would be dependent on prior information, consultation, participation, and agreement of the
population have been obtained at negotiations. Further, the pilot operations of integrated rural development
(para. 4.21) would give an additional contribution to clarify and advise on the role of the future AFICs in
the operation and management of more complex sylvo-pastoral systems.
B. Execution of Works; Purchase of Goods: Studies and Training
5.07         Execution of works included in the Forestry Infrastructure sub-component would be the
responsibility of the AFs either through LCB of by LS/FA (para. 4.28). The PMU would centralize the
preparation of bidding documents and procurement processing, when necessary. The PDF I has provided
the know-how and technical specifications exist to ensure that the PMU is in conditions to fulfil this task.
The AFs have the expertise required to ensure adequate supervision of the execution by contract and the
capacity to do it by for force account for small jobs in case that LS procedure would have no response.
Sylvicultural Works would be the responsibility of the AF and executed essentially by LCB; however LS,
piece work, or force account would also be used; these last procedures have been traditionally practiced.
Techniques and recommendations for the execution of these works are included in Annex 2. All large
clearing and soil preparation works for Plantations in the NFE would be procured by the PMU and their
execution would be followed and supervised by the AFs. The PDFI has provided them with training and
experience in this field. All other works related to Manual Plantations. Plantations along stream banks and
in Private Land would also be executed by the AFs concerned by local shopping or force account as
traditionally is being done. Plantation techniques which reflect the lessons learnt in the PDFI are indicated
in Annex 3. Minor works in Nurseries would also be executed by AFs by LS/FA. All soil preparation and
clearing required by the Forest Pasture and Range Improvement component would be subject to ICB
procured by the PMU and supervised by the AFs concerned. The AFs would execute by LS/FA all the
remaining aspects of the Plantations and Range Improvement components, e.g., seeding, planting, tending.
It is expected that forest users through their village associations or individually, when the program is located
in private or collective land, would collaborate in these works. The pilot operations (para. 4.21) would
assist in defining the modalities of this participation.
5.08         Purchase of Goods would be essentially the responsibility of the PMU which would prepare
purchasing annual programs and would deal with all the necessary procurement arrangements. Packages
would be prepared to group similar equipment and materials so that bidding would become attractive to
international competitors. Minor equipment, materials, and goods could be purchased directly by the AFs
in accordance with annual programs previously approved by the PMU.  Bidding documents and
specifications prepared during the PDF1 and approved by the Bank already exist in the DGF.



- 27 -
5.09          Studies comprising the preparation of letters of invitation, terms of reference and other
documentation required for the recruitment of consultant services to carry out studies (forest management
plans, wood processing) would be coordinated and implemented by the PMU which would also be
responsible to deal with the recruitment of short term consultants required by some training activities
(demonstration and pilot operations, nurseries, etc.). Organization of training including workshops, study
tours and courses would also rest with the PMU, after agreement on annual programs to be discussed within
the framework of the TMC (para. 5.03) and implemented by selected training institutions. The FAO Trust
Fund set up during the PDF I to implement the package of short term consultants and training programs has
proved to be a satisfactory solution which could be followed in the Project.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.10          The physical and financial monitoring of the Project would be the responsibility of the PMU
and would be based on data collected and supplied by other departments of DGF, by the AFs at regional
level, and by INRF, CRIP and CFPR for their part of the Project execution. Two semi-annual reports
would be prepared by the PMU. Particular attention would be given to monitoring procurement operations
(para. 4.33) including execution of contracts, control of force account works and loan disbursements.
Studies of the impact and evaluation of the Pilot Operations for Integrated Rural Development would also
rest with the PMU. The training and the experience obtained in these fields by the PMU during the
implementation of the PDFI would assist in setting up a similar system for the Project. The Direction
G&enrale du Financement et des Encouragements (DGFE) of the Ministry of Agriculture would prepare the
project completion report within six months of the loan closing date. Because of the nature of the Project's
emphasis on social and institutional issues, the Government and the Bank would carry out a mid-term review
of the Project implementation and prepare a report not later than May 31, 1997. Annex 10 contains
guidelines for Project monitoring and evaluation.
5.11         Bank supervision input into key activities is indicated in Table 10-Supervision Plan. This
is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement, correspondence,
etc., estimated at two staff-weeks in FY94, three staff-weeks thereafter till FY99, when it is not expected
that more than two staff-weeks be needed. For the total Project implementation period, supervision needs
are estimated at fifty-seven staff-weeks. The main lines of this supervision plan were discussed with the
Borrower. In addition to the semi-annual reports, and prior to the arrival of Bank supervision missions,
the PMU would prepare notes on Project progress and the main issues to be discussed during the mission.
The PMU would also be in charge of coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions, and for
providing information required. Mission briefings on arrival and wrap-up meetings will normally be held
with the participation of representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Planning, and International
Cooperation. Before departure, the Bank mission will leave in the field an Aide-Memoire with its
conclusions and recommendations.
D. Accounts and Audit
5.12          The entities responsible for Project execution (DGF/PMU, AFs, INRF, and CFPR) will
establish and maintain separate project-related accounts. Responsibility for consolidation at the central office
(DGF) will rest with the PMU and it will begin with Project implementation. Such accounts shall be
maintained in accordance with sound and internationally recognized accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to the Bank. The PMU will provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the
financial performance of the Project. An auditors's opinion and report satisfactory to the Bank on such
statements will be provided within nine months of the close of the fiscal year. The auditor's report will
include a statement on the reliability of statement of expenditures as a basis for loan disbursements, on the
Special Account, and on the compliance with financial covenants. The foregoing Project accounting,
financial reporting, and auditing arrangements should provide adequate and timely information to the Bank



- 28 -
for supervision of the Project. Assurances to this effect have been obtained at negotiations. The accounts
of the PDF I and the respective audit reports have been prepared by the Contr6le Ge&'ral des Finances of
the Ministry of Finance in a satisfactory manner and usually on time.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A.Production
6.01          The annual yield of wood from the part of the natural forests and existing plantations that
is dealt with under the forest management component would increase from about 180,000 m3 to 250,000 m3
as a result of the project. Most of this increase would come from thinning of pine plantations whose share
in the production would grow from about 5 percent to one third. The quality and value of this production
would also improve significantly in the long term since the respective share of sawlogs and fuel wood would
change from about 10 percent and 35 percent to 20 percent and 25 percent, while the share of logs for other
industrial or traditional uses would remain the same. Under the reforestation component in the NFE, annual
yield for pine would range, according to climatic zones, from 2 to 6 m3/ha with mechanized soil preparation
and from I to 3 m3/ha with manual soil preparation; similarly, annual yield for eucalyptus plantations would
respectively range from 4 to 8 m3/ha and from 2 to 4 m3/ha. Plantations on river banks would have an
average annual yield of 15 m3/ha.  Total reforestation under the project would establish an annual
production capacity of about 170,000 m3 of which 30 percent would be sawlogs, 60 percent logs for other
industrial or traditional uses, and 10 percent fuelwood. Total output from the project would be 8.5 M m3
of wood to which could be added about 2,000 tons of Aleppo-pine seeds and nearly 4,000 tons of pine
almonds.
B. Markets
6.02          As most forest products in Tunisia are in short supply, no difficulty is foreseen in marketing
the project forest output. Incremental production of sawnwood will substitute for imports. The chipwood
market is rapidly growing and project output would not be sufficient to keep up with population growth.
Forage production under the project would substitute for production foregone due to project reforestation
and forest management operations and although there would be some incremental production as the treated
forest areas are again opened to livestock, this would represent less than one percent of the country's
livestock feed requirements and would pose no problem in finding a market. Minor forest products (e.g.,
pine almonds and Aleppo-pine seeds) have a ready market and incremental fuelwood output would be
negligible relative to the overall national deficit.
C. Prices
6.03          The 1992 prices used for the purpose of this report are listed in Table 6.1 below. Wood
prices are based on the relatively stable auction prices for two major wood categories, namely pine and
eucalyptus chipwood. Fuelwood prices are estimated average actual market prices. Prices for other project
wood outputs, not currently frequently traded, have been based on estimated price mark-ups to chipwoods
given the quality differences. Prices for minor forest products are estimated market prices. The forage unit
(FU) value has been derived from the value of barley, the feed for which it substitutes.



- 29 -
Table 6.1: Financial Prices for Selected Project Output
Output                                      Unit           Price (D)
Chipwood
pine                                       ml             9.8
eucalypt                                   m3             6.8
poplar                                     m3             6.8
Sawlogs
pine (construction)                        m3            49.0
(carpentry)                            m3             64.0
eucalypt                                   m3            34.0
poplar                                     m3            54.0
m3             5.0
Fuelwood
Pine almonds                                 kg            40.0
Aleppo pine seeds                            kg             5.0
Forage                                       FU             0.14
Note: Wood volumes are in roundwood under bark equivalents.
D. Impact on Government Budget and Cost Recoverv
6.04          The overall budgetary impact of the project during the investment period is shown in
Table 6.2. The revenues are from the forest management activities which provide immediate benefits.
Table 6.2: Inpact on Govermnent Budget
(D Million)
1994    1995    1996    1997   1998    1999       Total
Project Costs        7.5    26.8   22.4    23.0   24.1    22.1         125.8
of which taxes      1.3     4.6     3.8      4.0    4.1      3.8      21.6
Net Project Costs    6.2    22.2    18.6    19.0   20.0    18.3        104.3
Project Revenues     1.1      1.7     1.7     1.8     1.9    2.0        10.2
Net cost to budget   5.1    20.5    16.9    17.2    18.1    16.3        94.1
6.05          Most project works are carried out on state land where cost recovery is not normally an
issue. Nevertheless the reforestation component for production purposes (in the sub-humid zone) has a net
present financial value (discounted at 10 percent, considered to be the opportunity cost of capital in real
terms) of D3.8 million (cost recovery of 133 percent). The forest management component has a cost
recovery of 250 percent with a net present value of D9.4 million. Cost recovery on plantations for
protection purposes is 33 percent. For pilot plantations on private lands (IRR = 13 percent) and windbreaks
(IRR=7 percent) the financial returns are not sufficient (and much lower than social benefits - Table 7.1)
to attract private investors given the long maturity (15 years) and risks involved. The FSP (para 2.31)
provides for a 50 percent government subsidy for the establishment of such plantations, which is considered
adequate to interst the private sector, but which rate could be adjusted if necessary as experience is gained.
Finally, substitute ranges are improved under the project at Government cost but the herdsmen are
responsible for their maintenance and protection.



- 30 -
VII. BENEFITS AND .JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Benericiaries
Production and Foreign Exchange Savings
7.01          Although much of Project benefits are environmental, benefits also encompass important
and more easily measurable increased forest production and productivity, income generation for poor
communities, and more efficient public administration of forest resources. Over the life of the project it
would provide an increased wood supply of 8.5 M m3. This, along with an upgraded average quality (from
fuelwood to utility wood and from utility wood to sawnwood) through better forest management and better
extraction technology, will provide raw materials to local industry and substitute for growing imports. Over
the 50 year life of the project's productive plantations, 3.8 M m3 of sawlogs produced would substitute for
imports of the order of Dl B and 3.9 M m3 of chipwood would save some DO.2 B in chipboard imports.
Environmental Benefits
7.02           The project will generate important environmental benefits but these are not easy to
quantify. Tunisia's few remaining forests provide the enabling climatic and physical environment for the
country's farming activities. It is well known that from having been the granary of the Roman empire,
deforestation and removal of the vegetative cover followed by erosion, desertification and a deterioration
in the microclimate have seriously reduced the North African region's, and Tunisia's, agricultural
production potential, which is now compensated for by heavy artificial irrigation and input use. Not only
does erosion and soil loss occur on the denuded and degenerated formerly forest-coverd hills but their crests
and slopes no more serve to retain precious water and gradually feed it to downstream agricultural areas
but they now act as runways to accelerate water run-off creating floods and causing erosion in fertile lands
down-stream. As a result 10,000 ha (0.2 percent) of agricutural land are lost each year. Project plantations
will help protect delicate agricultural soils in the humid and semi-arid zones from erosion, flooding and loss
of productivity. Sedimentation rates in North Africa may reach up to 40 m3 per ha and year and a reduced
soil loss of only half of that due to project plantations would lead to annual reductions of 0.6 M m3 of silt
in rivers leaving the project areas. By so doing sedimentation of the hydrological infrastructure will be
reduced, giving a longer economic life to a large capital stock. Project plantations will also help prevent
continued desertification and improve the country's micro-climate and land productivity. Degradation of
forest resources resulting from the ever increasing pressure of traditional livestock grazing will be alleviated
through working with herders' groups to establish and improve management of alternative feed resources.
Intensive management will improve the vitality of existing forests and help regenerate "noble" natural oak
and pine forests which are gradually aging and decaying due to heavy livestock grazing of new sprouts.
Project plantations will also help in the fight against the "green-house effect" and act as a carbon "sink" for
some additional 40,000 tons of carbon a year with a total carbon storage capacity at maturity of some
0.4 M tons. Project support for the expanding system of national parks and reserves, and for strengthening
administration of hunting regulations, will improve Tunisia's management of its heritage of flora and fauna.
Employment Creation and other Benefits
7.03          On the social side, the project will generate employment and income in the poor
communities that neighbor forests. An estimated 6 million work-days of direct employment will be created
during project implementation. This corresponds to some 4 000 full time jobs during this period. Some
50,000 work-days will be required each year to maintain project plantations. Job creation is also expected
from greater utilization of existing capacity in wood transformation and processing industries. The value
of minor forest products harvested in project plantations corresponds to the income from about 2,500 full
time jobs during the project period, mostly for women. Improved sector administration is expected to result



- 31 -
from several initiatives. Project reliance on increased participation by local communities and forest users,
with a special emphasis on women, will provide benefits to these groups and achieve broader administrative
efficiencies through improved design and implementation of project interventions. Increased reliance on
the private sector for provision of contractual services in forest management are expected to result in
increasing efficiency and reduced costs. Finally, the Project will support research on fuelwood, sawn- and
industrial wood, and secondary forest products, and the results will permit improvements in forest
management and administration.
B. Econoniic Analysis
7.04            The overall economic rate of return of the Project based on quantifiable benefits (wood and
minor forest produce) is estimated at about 13 percent. This rate is satisfactory. It is even more so, given
the strong positive, but non-quantifiable, environmental impact of the Project. Individual rates of return
of the 18 forest plantation and sylvo-pastoral models (87 percent of project costs) have been calculated and
are shown Table 7.1. The total reforestation component has an acceptable net present value at the
opportunity cost of capital (OCC) but as may be seen the measurable benefits (wood output, minor forest
produce) from the purely environmental plantations for protection purposes (in the semi-arid areas) only
permit a much lower, but positive, discount rate for such plantations. This would seem reasonable because
of the unsustainable present exploitation of these forests and the need to maintain a forest cover for future
generations.
Table 7.1: Project Economic Returns
Aciivity                                       ERR              NPV    Switching value at 10 percent
percent          D M   benefits (percent) costs (percent)
Forest management                               50+              26.4            -82             462
Reforestation                                   11.0              5.0            -16              20
Humid, mechanized                              13.6              4.4            -47              87
Humid, manual                                  13.1              1.9            -45              81
semi-arid sup, mechanized "'                    7.9             -3.1             75              -43
manual                        2.6             -1.1            1239            -92
semi-arid inf, mechanized "                     2.9             -3.6            3541            -97
manual                        0.3             -1.2            1599           -106
River banks                                    18.3              5.3            -63              174
Private lands                                  19.4              2.2            -76              208
wind breaks                                    13.8              0.2            -50              100
Range improvement                               12.0             0.8             -10              11
prairies, sub-humid '                           18.1             0.2             -25             35
semi-arid                              17.4              0.2            -24              31
cactus, semi-arid                              11.1               *              -7               7
range improvement, humid                       39.1              0.1            -53              112
semi-arid                     30.6              0.4            -43              76
forage shrubs, sub-humid                        8.8             -0. 1             7              -7
semi-arid                          9.3             -0.2              5              -5
TOTAL PROJECT                                   13.0             20.0            -28              39
/a These sub-activities have particularly high and difficult to quantify environmental benefits (see para 7.05).
7.05            Although the economic benefits of the purely environmental plantations cannot be measured
with precision, a simulation will indicate the minimum benefits necessary to justify such investments on
economic grounds. On the premise in paragraph 7.02 that the forests in Tunisia (3.8 M ha) provide the



- 32 -
enabling environment for Tunisia's agricultural production (on 5.3 M ha), the average agricultural value
added thus enabled per ha of forest may be calculated (D 2,800). On this basis the amount of the avoidance
of yield loss due to project plantations (because of erosion, flooding and reduced soil moisture and
deteriorating micro-climate without the project) necessary to justify the investment on economic grounds
(i.e., ERR= 10), may be calculated. Taking the plantations with the lowest estimated ERR in table 7.2
above (semi-arid, manual) an avoidance of a of loss of yields of as little as 0.3 percent p.a. would justify
the investment. If the benefits of preventing premature dam siltation are added - based on replacement value
of dam capacity and assuming 15 m3 silt per ha p.a. - would reduce the required yield gain from 0.3
percent to 0.2 percent (these figures also seem consistent with the estimated loss of 0.2 percent of farm land
per year given in para 7.02). An avoidance of a yield loss of 0.5 percent p.a. combined with the benefits
from reduced dam siltation, would give an economic rate of return of 17 percent. Other plantation models
would have even higher returns. In fact, since project plantations are more erosion prone than average
(which was basis for this calculation) the economic benefits are expected to be higher.
7.06          All values are in 1992 constant prices. The economic analysis has been made in border
prices, with international prices converted to dinars at the exchange rate of US$ I = D 0.9. Because of
prevailing severe unemployment and under employment in Tunisia and particularly in the marginal areas
where project plantations are made, the shadow wage rate has been taken as 80 percent of the wage rates
actually paid (60 percent of the fixed minimum agricultural wage rate - SMAG). Traded goods and services
have been valued at their CIF import- or FOB export price as appropriate. Non-traded goods and services
have been adjusted by specific conversion factors and only minor items have been adjusted by a standard
conversion factor, estimated at 0.9. Since Tunisia will face increasing shortages of fuelwood, its economic
price has been calculated on the basis of the price of butane gas, a substitute household energy source,
adjusted for calorific value differences. Economic prices are assumed to remain constant in real terms for
all inputs and for some outputs, namely forage and minor forest products. For wood, a long term average
price has been calculated on the basis of Bank projections for an annual increase in conifer prices of
0.8 percent, in real terms.
C. Proiect Impact
7.07          Environmental Impact. The Project has been placed in category "B" according to the
classification of OD 4.01 on "Environment Assessment". The overall environmental impact of the project
would be strongly positive. Indeed, the project includes a comprehensive package of measures and
interventions which will conserve and enhance biodiversity, rehabilitate and expand the role of forests in
protecting the environment, and alleviate stresses on and improve management of forest resources. As
regards biodiversity conservation, the project would support comprehensive national policies of nature
protection, improve protection of wildlife and fragile ecosystems by strengthening the system of protected
areas and developing environment education, and increase biodiversity-related scientific knowledge through
research activities. Improved forest and range management together with reforestation of degraded areas
with mixed-including native-species by the project would also result in improved habitat for wildlif'e and
increased biodiversity. As regards environment protection, the main contribution of the project would be
improved soil and water conservation. Reforestation of degraded forest cover and pasture management,
mostly on erodible soils in mountainous and hilly areas, and afforestation of river banks would reduce soil
erosion and regulate water runoff and infiltration. This would decrease loss of land for agriculture and
siltation of reservoirs, and enhance torrents, earthslides and floods control. Pilot windbreak plantations on
private farmland would promote increased protection of crops from wind effects. As regards alleviation
of stresses on forests, the project would strengthen forest fires and poaching control with improved
equipment and infrastructures and strengthened institutions.  Development of natural regeneration,
reforestation with mixed and native species, and intensive care of young stands will also result in healthier
and more pest resistant forests.



- 33 -
7.08          Construction of new roads, mechanized soil preparation before reforestation, and more
intensive exploitation of forests have both positive and some negative effects; the project would mitigate the
latter. New roads would help improved fire control but may cause erosion to start in sensitive areas. To
avoid that, additional funds would be provided under the project to finance specific devices to control water
runoff in these areas. Mechanized soil preparation ensures improved survival and initial growth of young
stands but may result in soil erosion and nutrients leaching. Detailed ecological-and social-studies would
be carried out to select the sites where these risks are minimal; erosion would also be controlled through
windrawing, ploughing, and planting on contour lines and by preserving strips of natural vegetation between
planted blocks. More intensive exploitation-mostly in overmature or very dense young stands-would be
positive for forest health but may damage forest ecosystems. To mitigate this, the project would finance
training and technical assistance to develop environment friendly methods, techniques, and equipment for
forest exploitation.
7.09          Institutional Impact. The PDFI has shown that beneficiary commitment to manage and
maintain forage resources can only be obtained through active participation in the planning and execution
of the programs. Building on this experience and that acquired by Office de Dgveloppement Sylvo-Pastoral
du Nord Ouest under the NW Rural Development, the Project will foster a major change in conventional
forest policy, from one of policing and enforced protection, to one of cooperation and joint venture with
local communities. This change is not without difficulty for it requires a major reorientation of long
established procedures, and the application of skills that have not been a conventional part of the forester's
portfolio. Under the Project, training will be expanded and a communication unit will be created at the
PMU to work with NGOs on introducing joint management of forestry resources. Improved extension
service will also assist private farmers with tree planting.
7.10         Impact on Women. Women are the predominant collectors of fodder, fuelwood and non-
wood products. Effective participation of women in joint management of forests would assist in reducing
illicit removals. NGOs would be responsible for ensuring that the efforts to mobilize women have effective
support in the initial years. The better management of forests and pastures would enhance the availability
of the forest products which women collect to provide household subsistence and secondary income.
D. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
7.11          No major or unusual technical risks threaten the success of the proposed Project. Plantations
establishment technologies have been used successfully during the PDFI. However the Project objective of
getting the private sector increasingly involved in forest management might be compromised by the possible
slow reaction of entrepreneurs to participate in a program for better exploitation of the forestry resources
and for enhancing the value of the wood production. The Project through training and demonstration and
through particular emphasis of the applied research on the enhancement of the wood value would help to
reduce this risk. Similarly, sustainability of forestry development programs is highly dependent on the
receptiveness and active participation of population. The approach followed in the Project design to precede
any investment program for forestry development (plantations, regeneration, rangeland) by consultation,
participation, and agreement of interested population in the development programs would diminish this risk;
in addition the Project would complete this action by seeking the full application of Forestry Code in its
aspects of the users' participation in the management and exploitation of forest resources.
7.12          Table 7.1 above shows the values for which the net present value of the project, discounted
at the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent, becomes negative (switching values). Table 7.2
below summarizes the analysis of the impacts various assumed adverse effects on project benefits, costs or
timing. The tables illustrate that overall, the project including all investment costs (also those for which no
benefits have been estimated), is reasonably robust with regard to assumptions on investment costs and
benefits and that it will still have a substantial net present value if they, respectively, increase or decrease
by 20 percent. Project plantations for production purposes (in the humid zone) are even more insensitive
to changes and remain viable even with a 50 percent increase in costs or decrease in benefits, or with a



- 34 -
5-year delay in benefits. The total project is somewhat more sensitive to a delay in benefits because of the
very profitable forest management component (Table 7.1); however the nature of the investments (essentially
wood extraction) make the benefits almost instantaneous and any delay in this component is hypothetical
only. Range management is a necessary complementary activity to project plantations (to produce substitute
fodder) and cannot be evaluated in isolation, However the figures indicate the order of preference in
selecting substitute ranges and that wherever possible prairies or other natural ranges should be preferred
to cacti or forest shrub plantations. Where it is necessary to plant cacti or shrubs particular attention would
have to be given to cost control.
Table 7.2: Sensitivity Analysis
Net present    NPV as     Economic Rate
value at     percent       of return
10 percent    of present    (percent)
(DM)       Costs at 10
percent
Total Project
Base case                                          21.7         43.2           13.2
Total benefits,     prices or yields
down              10 %        14.5         28.9           12.1
down             20 %          7.3         14.5           11.1
lagged           I year       15.2         30.2           12.1
lagged           3 years       3.8          7.6           10.5
Total costs up                        20 %         11.6         19.3           11.5
Production Plantations   (humid zone)                7.9          108            14.2
Base
Total benefits,     prices or yields
down              10 %        6.4          86.8           13.5
down             50 %          0.3          3.8           10.2
lagged           I year       6.6          88.7           13.4
lagged           5 years      2.1          28.9           11.1
Total costs up                        50 %         4.2          38.4           11.8
E. Sustainability
7.13          An important objective of the Project is to establish a firm knowledge base on the state of the
forest resource and its use, including the extent of its degradation. Building on this knowledge, the DGF would
be able to devise a sound development strategy incorporating both production and environmental objectives.
The expanded use of management plans, the integration of local population in the management of forests and
the strengthening of the DGF and the training of private sector in wood production, exploitation and processing
would provide the essential tools to improve the institutional capacity to implement this strategy. In addition,
the research component, including genetic improvement, new and improved technologies for the production
of plants, would bring increases in productivity and quality of natural forests, plantations, and forest ranges.
The nature conservation component will continue the efforts underway to protect national parks and preserve
Tunisia's flora and fauna. As to the sustainability of the quantifiable benefits of improved yields and quality
of wood, the DGF is an effective agency and is successfully implementing the PDFI. Under the Project, it
will be strengthened and will become more diversified to carry out its multipurpose management. Increased
importance will be given to monitoring and evaluation to ensure follow-up on various technologies being used
and apply the lessons to future interventions. The Project will also expand management of forest resources
(in particular pasture and range) by the local population through the consolidation of local user groups (AFIC).
Thus, the responsibility and burden of undertaking many of the activities would be shifted from Government



- 35 -
to the beneficiaries. This would result in a more sustainable management system and budgetary savings for
the Government.
F. Special Emphasis Prog-rams
7.14          The increase of private sector involvement in sustainable and environmentally oriented forestry
development, both of population living in the forest as primary users or of those entrepreneurs who might
collaborate with Government in preserving and expanding the national forest patrimony is an objective of the
proposed Project. The actions included in the Project refer namely to: (a) the approval of the decrees ruling
the operation of the AFICs (para. 2.29); the operation and establishment of a system of financial assistance in
line with the objectives established for the FSP (para. 2.31); (b) the availability of adequate investment
incentives to the private sector for selected service activities in the forestry sector (para. 2.31); (c) the
preparation and implementation of a plan of action to motivate and enhance the role of the private sector; (d)
the integration approach adopted in the design and execution of the reforestation and regeneration programs
financed under the Project (para. 5.06); (e) the training programs particularly oriented to the small private
entrepreneurs (para. 4.17). Part of these activities are primarily directed to the poverty reduction in the forest
areas when they refer to the AFICs. In addition, other Project activities would contribute to the socio-
economic improvement in the forest areas such as, the manual reforestation component (para. 4.10) and the
extensive use of local shopping to procure the execution of minor works for tending operations (para. 4.28).
The majority of the Project components have a direct impact on the environment protection as detailed in para.
7.04.
7.15         Exercising rights of using some forest products (dead wood, natural pasture, non-wood
products) is sometimes in conflict with forestry development. New reforestation or regeneration programs
demand the closing of areas to such use. This obliges the forest population to look for those products at longer
and longer distances. This drawback affects in particular the women who traditionally are in charge of
supplying the household with water and firewood. The compensatory measures provided by the Project with
improved pastures, by implementing the access to credit and to the advantages foreseen in the FSP will benefit
the population in general. However some specific actions are foreseen for women development. This will be
done in the context of the integrated pilot operations (para. 4.21).  These operations, which will be
implemented with the assistance of NGOs, would comprise promotion programs dealing with rural women and
addressing themes such as, developing handicraft, promoting the use of more efficient and energy saving
household equipment, and training in the exploitation of non-wood products (honey, mushrooms, essences, etc.)
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01         At negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would:
(a)    by December 31, 1994, review the area under the control and management by each forest agent
(forest units) and establish for each AF and in accordance with its particular physical
characteristics maximum sizes for these forest units (para. 2.28);
(b)    by December 31, 1996, approve the decree foreseen in art 38 of the FC referring to the
conditions for granting authorizations to exercise the right to use the NFE (para. 2.30);
(c)    by December 31, 1997, or such later date as shall be agreed to between the Borrower and the
Bank, following the recommendations of the mid-term Project review (para. 5.10), approve
the decrees referring to the execution of works by the AFICs, (Art 43 of the FC), constitution,
by-laws and operation of the AFICs (Art 44 of the FC) (para. 2.29); and not later than
June 30, 1994, take measures necessary to ensure the conclusion of arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank in respect of the pilot operations of integrated rural development (para. 2.29); such
arrangements to include the participation and consultation with forestry population concerned,
NGOs and the DGF;



- 36 -
(d)    ensure the prompt establishment and operation, in accordance with suitable policies and
procedures, of the system of financial assistance envisioned under the FSP (para. 2.31);
(e)    not later than December 31, 1994, take all necessary measures to ensure the availability of
adequate investment incentives to the private sector for selected activities in the forestry sector,
including the prompt publication of decrees (para. 2.31);
(f)    not later than December 31, 1995, the PMU would prepare a plan of action to increase and
enhance the role of the private sector in forestry development and Government would
implement such plan thereafter (para. 2.32);
(g)    by December 31, 1995 approve the decree foreseen in Art 76 of the FC referring to the
conditions for authorizations to occupy the NFE temporarily (para. 2.32);
(h)    not later than December 31, 1994 the CFPR would ensure preparation and implement training
programs for forest exploitation workers on selected matters (para. 4.17);
(i)    beginning FY94, the INRF would implement the research program foreseen in the Project and
detailed in Annex 7 and prepare semi-annual reports in respect thereof (para. 4.20);
(j)    beginning with FY94, and before the end of each FY, provide through regional revolving
funds, the funds necessary to cover at least the anticipated annual Project expenditures to
finance labor costs for operations executed by force account (para. 4.26);
(k)    procure goods and works in accordance with the Bank guidelines and procedures acceptable
to the Bank, namely, the import of vehicles would not be subject to constraints, bid submission
procedures should not be limited, bid opening should be public, and no particular preference
should be given to national suppliers, contractors, or manufacturers besides the one mentioned
in para. 4.28 (para. 4.30); and employment of consultants would follow the Bank guidelines;
(1)    expand and consolidate the Forestry Coordination Committee (FCC), to include representatives
of the Ministry of the Environment and Territorial Planning, Ministry of Interior (local
associations), Ministry of Planning, Ministry of International Cooperation, the private sector,
and l 'Union Tunisienne de lI 'ndustrie, du Commerce et de I 'Artisanat, not later than December
31, 1994 (para. 5.03);
(m)   set up a Technical Monitoring Committee (TMC) with representation of the DGF/PMU, the
CRDA/AF, the DREF, and the INRF (para. 5.03), not later than December 31, 1994;
(n)    ensure that the execution of plantation or regeneration programs requiring closing to ranging
would be dependent on prior information, consultation, participation, and agreement of the
interested population (para. 5.06);
(o)    ensure that the auditors' annual reports, along with opinion on statements of Expenditures used
for certain disbursements under the Bank loan, and on the revolving fund, and audited Project
financial statements would be sent to the Bank within nine months after the end of each fiscal
year (para. 5.12).
8.02         As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan Government would:
(a)    have submitted to its Chamber of Deputies proposed legislation necessary to ensure the
establishment and operation of a system of financial assistance aimed to develop the country's
sylvo-pastoral resources, encourage the private sector participation in activities of enhancement
of forest and pasture value, and improve the social and economic conditions of forest
population (para. 2.31);
(b)    reorganize the PMU by establishing five units (para. 5.02), and provide 7 additional staff to
strengthen it (para. 5.02);
(c)    complete the identification for the location of the 10 integrated pilot operations (para. 4.22);
8.03         Based on the above agreements, the proposed Project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$69 million to the Government of Tunisia for a term of 17 years including 5 years of grace. The Project
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.



- 37 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                   Table 1
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Component by Year
Base Cost (Dinas '000)                            (US$S000)
1994    199S    19       1997    1998    1999    Total    Total
1. Forest Management                              1,716   3,873   3,344   3,431    3,492   3,291    19,147    22,525
2. Plantations                                      612   9,746   10,037   10,960   11,167  11,109    53,631    63,096
3. Forest Pasture and Range Improvement           2,089   2,084   2,162   2,227   2,359       301    11,423    13,438
4. Wood Exploitation and Value Enhancement            -   1,178     329      105      85       85     1,783     2,097
5. National Parks and Reserves                        5     740      138     134      134     128     1,279     1,505
6. Research                                         152     790     364      253      36       30     1,624     1,911
7. Institutional Development and Pilot Operations  1,864   4,003    1,476    455     393      383     8,573    10,086
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 6,437  22,414   17,849   17,565   17,667   15,528    97,460   114,659
Physical Contingencies                             644   2,241    1,784    1,756    1,766    1,553    9,743    11,463
Price Contingencies                                369   2,166   2,729   3,636   4,693   5,068    18,661    21,954
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  7,450  26,821   22,362  22,957  24,126  22,148   125,864   148,076
Taxes                                             1,245   5,080   3,803   3,812   3,980   3,698    21,618    25,433
Foreign Exchange                                  2,543   11,482   8,450   8,091    8,066   7,222    45,854    53,946



-38 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                                        Table 2
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Swunmary
%      Total
(Dbar '000)                 (USS '000)           Forap    Bse
LW    Foeip    Toal    Local  Foreip    Total    EF.   Costs
1. Invetment Coss
A VEHICLES & EQUIPMEM
Vehicles and Tacuton                                      944    1,288      2,231    1,110    1,515     2,625       58        2
Machinery                                                 348      571       919      409       671     1,081       62        1
Miscellaneous equipment                                   388      50S       896      457       597     1,054       57        1
Subtotal VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT                            1,680    2,366     4,046    1,976    2,784     4,760       58        4
B. PLANTATIONS & FOREST WORKS
Soil prepaation                                        18,585   18,396    36,981   21,865   21,643    43,507        50      38
Planting                                                9,039    7,300    16,338   10,634    8.588    19,222        45       17
Thinning (Pins)                                         4,594      508      5,103    5,405      598     6,003       10        5
Thinning (oak, eucalyptu)                                 475       53       527      558        62       620       10        I
Assised regenertion                                     5,106    1,272      6,378    6,008    1,496     7,504       20       7
Maintenane                                              8,733      172      8,905   10,274      203    10,477        2        9
Protection, Forestation                                 2,033        -    2,033    2,392          -    2,392         -       2
Subtotal PLANTATIONS & FOREST WORKS                       48,565   27,701    76,266   57,135   32,589    89,725       36       78
C. BUIDLINGS & WORKS
Roads and fie breaks                                    1,283    1,564      2,847    1,509    1,840     3,350       55       3
Buildings                                                 760      590      1,351     895      694      1,589      44         1
Subtotal BUILDING & WORKS                                  2,043    2,154     4,198    2,404    2,535     4,939       51        4
D.TRAINING, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Training in Tunisia                                       260       11       271      306        12       318        4        -
Training abroad                                             -      259       259         -     305        305      100
Technical auistnce                                          -      505       505         -     594        594      100        I
Studies                                                   689    1,626     2,316      811    1,913      2,724       70       2
Pilot opertions                                         4,056    1,010     5,066    4,771    1,188      5,959      20        5
Subtotal TRAINING, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    5,005    3,411     8,416    5,888    4,013     9,901       41        9
Total Invostment Cost                                       57,293   35,632    92,925   67,404   41,920   109,324        38      95
11. Recurrent Cost
A. DGF staff                                                346         -       346      407        -       407        -        -
B. AF saff                                                  241         -       241      284        -       284        -        -
C. Operation & naintenance                                 1,024    1,476     2,500    1,204    1,737     2,941       59        3
D. Pastures & rangeland                                     875        97       971    1,029      114     1,143       10        I
E. Protectionofpastures &  ngoland                          451       25        476      531       29       560        5
Total Recurrent Coss                                         2,937    1,598     4,535    3,456    1,880      5,335      35        5
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                          60,230   37,230    97,460   70,859   43,800   114,659       38      100
Physical Contingencies                                     6,022    3,721     9,743    7,085    4,377    11,463       38       10
Price Contingencies                                       13,757    4,903    18,661   16,185    5,768    21,954       26       19
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          80,010   45,854   125,864   94,130   53,946   148,076       36      129



- 39 -
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Fiscal                     Amount        Cwunave    Percent la   Percent lb
Year                    (US$ Million)     Amount
(US$ million)
June 93          0.0            0.0           0            0
FY94        Dec. 93          0.0            0.0           0            0
June 94          0.7            0.7           1            0
FY95        Dec. 94          1.4            2.1           3            10
June 95          2.0            4.1           6           12
FY96        Dec. 95          5.6            9.7           14          22
June 96          5.5           15.2           22          24
FY97        Dec. 96          8.3           23.5           34          34
June 97          5.5           29.0           42          45
FY98        Dec. 97          5.5           34.5           50          55
June98           5.5           40.0           58          64
FY99        Dec. 98          5.5           45.5           66          64
June 99          5.6           51.1           74
FY00        Dec. 99          8.2            59.3          86
June 00          5.6           64.9           94
FY01        Dec. 00          1.3            66.2          96
June 01          1.4           67.6           98
FY02        Dec. 01          1.4            69.0          100
/a The standard disbursement profile for Tunisia agriculture sector (June 1992)
/b Actual disbursement for the first Forestry Development Project (loan 2870-TUN)
Expected date of:    signing:    June    30, 1993
effectiveness: September 30, 1993
completion:   December 31, 1999
closing:     December 31, 2000
for2.t3



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activities by Governorate
Maag.      Tfinning        Assist.   Mach.  Manual  Plant.   Wind   Prairies  Fodder  Range   Cactus  Pasture
Plans      n            Regener.  Plant.   Plant.   along   breks              Plant.  Improv.  Plant.  Rehabil.
Govenote  .             Pine   Coppices                           streams
--ha--
ARIANA            8,600    1,400      600             1,225     380      430      200     205      753
BEN-AROUS             -     600      400                 -      950                 -        -     200 _
BEIA             16,500    6,000    1,300    2,250    1,730    1,425     660   =          274      870   =         =                    o
AIN-DRAHAM            -   2,600    1,800    1,250      640                 -                 -        -       -        -
JENDOUBA          1,500        -   1,100    1,250      495      140    1,200                18     134      322      175        -
LE KEF                -   3,000         -   5,000    3,040      475             -          150     350      875        -    1,400
KASSERINE             -   7,200         -   3,000    1,400      665                     -          884        -      866        -
KAIROUAN              -   3,350         -        -    1,400     570      500               83      910        -
NABEUL            9,400    5,500    3,000       -    1,310      475    1,300      300        -     730        -=
ZAGHOUAN            900    4,950        -   1,000    3,570      475            =          386    1,341        -        -
SIUANA                -   3,400         -   4,200      330    2040                  .     241      5571   1,130      525
BIZERTE           6,600    4,100    2,000    1,250    1,650       -                       201      428A                         -
TOTAL         43,500   42,100    9,300   19,200   16,790    7,595    4,090    500    1,558    7,157    2,327    1,566    1,400



- 41 -
Table 5
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Stumpage Values for Pine Sawnwood
Item                       Financial    cf    Economic
DT/m3               DT/lm
1992 CIF import price (US$/m3)                    359.0      1.0      359.0
(russian sylvester pine)
0.8% p.a. increase to 2020                         89.7      1.0       89.7
2020 CIF import price (US$/m3)                    448.7      1.0      448.7
2020 CIF import price (DT/m3)                     403.9      1.0      403.9
Import duty, 27% of CIF                           109.0      0.0        0.0
Port charges, 27.17% of CIF                       109.7      0.7       80.1
Ex Port                                           622.6      -        484.0
VAT 17%                                           105.8      0.0        0.0
Wholesale Tunis                                   728.5      -        484.0
Transport Tunis-mill                               15.0      0.7       10.5
Ex mill price (gross)                             713.5      -        473.5
Mill margin (15% on net)                           93.1      0.7       65.1
Conversion cost                                    50.0      0.7       35.0
Arrived mill (sawnwood equiv.)                    570.4      -        373.3
Log/sawnwood. cf = 0.56
Arrived mill (log equivalent)                     319.4      -        209.1
Adjustment for quality (20%)                      255.5      -        167.2
Transport to mill, 50 km *.15D                      7.5      0.7        5.3
Extraction cost                                     3.5      0.7        2.5
Long-term pine stumpage value                     244.5               159.5



- 42 -
Table 6
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Stumpage Values for Pine Sawnwood
Item                       Financial     cf    Economic
DT/m3               DTJm3
1992 CIF import price (US$/m3)                     155.0      1.0       155.0
(Chilean pine)
0.8% p.a. increase to 2020                          38.7       1.0       38.7
2020 CIF import price (US$/m3)                     193.7       1.0      193.7
2020 CIF import price (DT/m3)                      174.4       1.0      174.4
Import duty, 27% of CIF                             47.1      0.0         0.0
Port charges, 27.17% of CIF                         47.4      0.7        34.6
Ex Port                                            268.8       -        209.0
VAT 17%                                             45.7      0.0         0.0
Wholesale Tunis                                    314.5       -        209.0
Transport Tunis-mill                                15.0      0.7        10.5
Ex mill price (gross)                              299.5       -        198.5
Mill margin (15% on net)                            39.1      0.7        27.3
Conversion cost                                     50.0      0.7        35.0
Arrived mill (sawnwood equiv.)                     210.5       -        136.1
Log/sawnwood. cf = 0.56
Arrived mill (log equivalent)                      117.9       -         76.2
Transport to mill, 50 km *.15D                       7.5      0.7         5.3
Extraction cost                                      3.5      0.7         2.5
Long-term pine stumpage value                      106.9                 68.5



- 43 -
Table 7
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Stumpage Values for Pine Chipwood
Item                      Financial    cf    Economic
DT/m3              DT/m3
1992 CIF import price (US$/m3)                    42.8      1.0       42.8
(pine logs)
0.8% p.a. increase to 2020                         10.7     1.0        10.7
2020 CIF import price (US$/m3)                    53.5      1.0       53.5
2020 CIF import price (DT/m3)                     48.1      1.0       48.1
Import duty, 27% of CIF                             8.2     0.0        0.0
Port charges, 27.17% of CIF                        13.1     0.7        9.5
Ex Port                                           69.4       -        57.7
VAT 17%                                            11.8     0.0        0.0
At Factory Tunis                                  81.2      -         57.7
Adjustment for quality (25%)                      60.9      -         43.3
Transport to mill, 200 km *.15D                   30.0      0.7       21.0
Extraction cost                                    3.5      0.7        2.5
Long-term pine stumpage value                     27.4                19.8



- 44 -
Table 8
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Stumpage Values for Poplar Sawnwood
(Construction Ouality)
Item                        Financial     cf     Economic
DT/m3                DT/m3
1992 CIF import price (US$/m3)                       185.0      1.0       185.0
0.8% p.a. increase to 2020                            46.2       1.0       46.2
2020 CIF import price (US$/m3)                       231.2       1.0      231.2
2020 CIF import price (DT/m3)                        208.1       1.0      208.1
Import duty, 27% of CIF                               56.2      0.0         0.0
Port charges, 27.17% of CIF                           56.5      0.7        41.3
Ex Port                                              320.9       -        249.4
VAT 17%                                               54.5      0.0         0.0
Wholesale Tunis                                      375.4       -        249.4
Transport Tunis-mill                                  15.0      0.7        10.5
Ex mill price (gross)                                360.4       -        238.9
Mill margin (15% on net)                              47.0      0.7        32.9
Conversion cost                                       50.0      0.7        35.0
Arrived mill (sawnwood equiv.)                       263.4       -        171.0
Log/sawnwood. cf = 0.56
Arrived mill (log equivalent)                        147.5       -         95.8
Adjustment for quality (20%)                         118.0       -         76.6
Transport to mill, 50 km *.15D                         7.5      0.7         5.3
Extraction cost                                        3.5      0.7         2.5
Long-term eucalyptus stumpage value                  107.0                 68.9



- 45 -
Table 9
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Strategie de Reboisement, de la Lutte Contre la D6sertification et de Protection des Sols;
Ministere de I'Agriculture - Tunisia - October 1990.
2.    VIII Plan de D6veloppement Economique et Social 1992-1996 - Agriculture et Peche- s/
Comite de Developpement Forestier; Ministere de I'Agriculture - October 1990.
3.    Tunisia - Second Projet Forestier - Rapport de Pre-Identification - FAO/CP Rapport
n.77/91 CP-TUN 27 - July 2, 1991.
4.    Tunisia - Energy Management Strategy in the Residential and Tertiary Sectors -ESMAP-
Report n. 146/92 April 1992.
5.    Tunisie - Deuxieme Projet de D6veloppement Forestier - Rapport de Preparation -
FAO/CP report n. 114/92 CP-TUN 74 - August 28, 1992.



- 46 -
Table 10
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approx.              Activity                   Expected Skill              Staff Input
Dates                                           Requirements                 (SW)
FY94            -Supervision mission           -Management                     2
11/1993         -Project launching
-1994 work program
FY94            -Supervision mission           -Procurement                    4
05/1994         -Project monitoring             -Research
-Research
-Training
-Procurement
FY95            -Supervision mission           -Forest management              4
11/1994         -Forest management             -Range specialist
-Range Improvement
FY95            -Supervision mission           -Sociologist                    4
05/1995         -Plantations                   -Reforestation
-Pilot operations
-Procurement
FY96            -Supervision mission           -Environment                    4
11/1996         -Nature conservation           -Forest exploitation
-Wood exploitation
FY97           -Mid-Term review                -Management                     8
05/1997
FY98           -Supervision mission            -Research                       6
11/1998         -Research                      -Women development
-Project impact                -Monitoring/evaluation
-Pilot operations
FY99            -Supervision mission           -Management                     2
11/1999         -Preparation of PCR
for2aar.L II



- 47 -
Chart I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Component                                             . 1994 . 1995 . 1996 . 1997. 1998 . 1999
1. FOREST MANAGEMENT                                            .      . 18.9 . 24.6 . 20.0 . 21.5
-Mangement Plans ('000 ha)
-Forestry Infrastructure                                          ;      ;       ;       ;      ;       ;
.8,000 .8,800 .8,800 .8,800 .8,800 .8,800 .
-Thinning (ha)                                            >>>>>>>>>> >> >>>>>>>>>  >>>>>>>>>>>>> >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>)>)
.1,450 .3,550 .3,550 .3,550 .3,550 .3,550 .
-Assisted Regeneration (ha)                                          >>>>> >>>>>>>>> >>> >
2. PLANTATIONS                                                  .      .3,450 .3,550 .3,600 .3,600 .3,600
-Mechanized (ha net)
.1,600 .1,500 .1,500 .1,500 .1,500
-Manual (ha net)
350 .  750 .  750 .  750 .  750 .  750
-Along Stream Banks (ha)
100 .  180 .  180 .  180 .  180 .  180
-On Private Land (ha)
1.   2.          .
-Nurseries (unit)
3. FOREST PASTURE AND RANGE IMPROVEMENT                         . 360 . 300 . 300 .  300 .  300
-Prairies (ha)
.1,550 .1,400 .1,400 .1,400 .1,400
-Fodder Plantation (ha)
450 . 450 . 450 .  500 .  500
-RangeLand Improvement (ha)
300 . 300 . 300 .  350 . 350
-Cactus PLantation (ha)
300 . 300 . 300 .  250 .  250
-Pasture RehabiLitation (ha)
. 2.    1.            . 2.
-Training and Technical Assistance (MM)                                >>>>>>>>>>W      >> >
4. WOOD EXPLOITATION AND VALUE ENHANCEMENT
5. NATIONAL PARKS AND RESERVES
6. FORESTRY RESEARCH
7. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPEMNT                                    .  11  .  15  .  17  .  17  .   1
-Training (MM)
2  .6  . 2.
-PiLot Operations (unit)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
for2sar.dwg                                                              TUNISIA
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPEMET PROJECT
The Project Management Unit (PMU) within the Foresty Department
Organigram
|FORSR  DEPARTMENT|
PHU                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~Directorate of Syivo-pastora                           Directorateo
crate                                                                      Devetlopemt                                                C   ervt
cra
Sud-Directorate of                               Sub-Directorate of
Management                                       Developmet
Service of       1      Service of Stuidies and        [         Service of       1Service of
Forestry Economy            Management Monitoring                  Reforestation      l               NationaL Parks
Accounting and               Concept,Prograeming                 Management                      Reforestation                         Envi rornent
FinanciaL Management               and Promotion                 and Exploitation                   and RangeLand                            Unit
Unit                            Unit                           Unit                               Unit
D    Existing Forestry Department Services                     E      Project Management Unit



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24535
MEITRANA                                    1 0     Gulf of       1
T  U  N  I S  I A                                                                      Bizerte    Tun,s
SEAA
SECOND FORESTRY
DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT                                                                                    __
Bloclimatic Zones                                                                                                     N beu-
t       '-0 s1,.I I it a n   Gau lG f of Hoanr om *er
a   -,:~~~~~~~~J- ~~~~~- ~~36'
SAHARIAN
C ICeetfg~~~~~~~~on<3\ stir
ARID                                                                           AN
SEMI - ARID                                                    Si n3
SUB  - HUMID
s I IDI           ID   (       S FAX
5 HUMID                                                           A                                                     kefso,
r n     G~AFSA    Lj               9        f    Guff of
Salt Lakes                                                                      t e             Gob-
G.en  rae                    |V);       
Gave r ii or a e ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      Gbe
G      N t     t n a              t I a n a I
B a u n d a r I e s
p ncr herr prepoied ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4.  
*;        o Ae 5                                                            t o   s  * otf
Br   ouras   r es r   the                                                            .    |
f -ieb ion    c *i  l
n  rh    o ur nr d  Ca re s
t<l  I    TFP r                                                                                                     ANc  ir;Gou    
ml,    m3rm,~~m~m C nIne
,    T:   :    hl +t1    R    ea                                                  ,
' x I ei roare tY11s C: nrrrre                                                    _,        _
e: i  rz.cl f ;.1 .J. eI+.lnce of  o                   \ . ;_       ~     ~    ~    ~     ANLAR  199






MEDITERRANEAN
SEA
I37.                                                                                        Gulf of Tuni*                                 3
37 Tb,.s i Ss Tr    ;,                                     C    /       /A1N           4   ,a\e\ @Z\3
K             (   )< 0> ir                                   IAN A I
36-         _                |- ~         AL'-' A;h:i   SILIA1NA\-        X          4td      \      Hmae                                 6
9 '         X       ' '<A-   6t':: ~~~KAIOLAN~ ''i.        1 -
0~~~
cl~~~~~~~~~~~~i
35|-** *V'\1  - * - *                         /   , 't   ,' I s -           (  (S,-   A1AfS/L MA                               36
(     f*SC  -. -      '--                                                              KILOMBEEInS ,   ,~},/  
(~~           Maroov    iF;i    t2.J '                             /&, fx,        
,-r..- ~ rIz HR>l9  b' f                                              //t-j,           x,t/(J<
*  ~       _Rdyf          ,M                          7                  /1 gKLMTR
(lrii ,;is iflou /ilf.l
-t-          t         -----.;---    -.. \1-                                  _.......       _X'sg  Gulf  of Gabes
TOZEUR4 ; -                      J' :i *t ii                             ' . >__aGABES , 
50   1  ) \ )   /     Choll el Jerid  >t.G0ELLI        t                  
iOND  / T   IA /                                            V MEOETHH~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONATJ
'  t, i- 'itt                - X    j:               ,\            X,_        i
\   T  U  N  I S  I A                       0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ t.     \        - 0  5     z 7
33.  SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             t-               l i               S            > \.$K 33METER
Forest Cover and  Project Activities                                                TATAOUN NEh 
- Prsited Arta                                                                  1A l 1 At 1 lN HAN!  .        
Mioin Prolect AicetileG                                                             o Gabes
9 Moeoget,tet Moss              GiZZ  Salt Lakes
O Regenotioe                            Rivers
o   Thinmning                                                                                             11'7 
t4  Piontotiec.                        Mail, Ano.dei\r
ie  e ovetsOrate Captals 
C Onk4    Naliona Capita                                                                     tA#ott T  
t----Aleppo Pise               - - - Governorate Boundaries                                                ;1 
-2 ~ ;7,    ~                            International BotIndaries                                      N
B2-  A;                                                                                       __ Other  _____ 32 AL_ _A_L
M~~~~~~~.i,* :aP.::',owt, AO....   ;ih., ,,. .4.; .Xi
B *.;. . i.r.w.bP .... i N'*MOi-9-  P  ,-, 1    S,......t... L9>. i_i
_   ..................................   ljl-J ;s z|  ) fy wttY n wf? rly} *#|*  ,,,,,,,,,  \h,/r Gr; ir -s>t
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



