Public Disclosure Authorized




                                                      PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                                                CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                                        Report No.: AB2383
                                Project Name                   PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT
                                Region                         SOUTH ASIA
                                Sector                         Central government administration (100%)
                                Project ID                     P099980
                                Borrower(s)                    GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN
                                Implementing Agency
Public Disclosure Authorized




                                                               Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Audit General
                                                               Afghanistan

                                Environment Category           [ ] A [ ] B [X] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
                                Date PID Prepared              January 12, 2006
                                Estimated Date of              April 14, 2007
                                Appraisal Authorization
                                Estimated Date of Board        May 29, 2007
                                Approval
Public Disclosure Authorized




                               1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
                                   Since 2002 the GOA has made progress in establishing a functioning public financial
                               management system under the direction of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The MOF is
                               producing annual budgets that meet basic requirements of the GOA-IMF-Donor approved
                               Medium Term Financing Framework (MTFF), and meeting internationally accepted standards of
                               PFM performance at an acceptable level. Importantly, the GOA has also established the basic
                               legal framework underlying the PFM and procurement systems.

                                       However, these achievements have been obtained with a high degree of direct donor
                               assistance for costly direct operations contracts with international firms, including the hiring of
                               qualified Afghans on local-hire contracts. This is not considered to be a sustainable situation, i.e.
                               one in which more of the responsibility and accountability for PFM resides directly with the civil
                               service in MOF. The Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS) has identified both
Public Disclosure Authorized




                               improving the performance of financial management services and capacity building to permit
                               these services to be mainstreamed into the MOF and line ministries as part of their core
                               operations. The MOF has developed a Strategic Plan for the years 1384-89 (2006-2010) to
                               accomplish this.

                                        The broad plan for making this transition would be (i) to continue to provide operational
                               support for basic operations through the services of internationally recruited firms, while (ii)
                               making further steps to re-organize the MOF and line ministries in a more de-concentrated PFM
                               system; (iii) deepening the regulatory framework and building human resource capacity to
                               facilitate mainstreaming of operations; and (iv) managing these changes to assure their longer
                               term sustainability. This plan is also largely consistent with the World Bank’s strategy to assist
                               the GOA, and with technical diagnosis of the MOF’ needs, and recommendations for reforms
outlined in Afghanistan: Managing Public Finance for Development, World Bank, November
2005.

   To achieve its goals, however, the MOF will have to address several organizational and
capacity constraints, including: an internal ministry organization that is only partially
modernized; an overly centralized, donor driven and “transaction-based? financial management
and control system that assures credibility but not efficiency; inadequately trained, managed and
remunerated civil service personnel; and resistance to changes that may require several years.
The government also faces the challenge of maintaining a high level of credibility and
accountability in its financial management while making reforms.

     IDA has supported the MOF and the Office of the Auditor General through 3 previous
operations, mainly focused on assuring basic treasury and audit functions through direct support
contracts, with some attention to training and developing the legal framework. In the next phase
of its support, IDA’s value added would be to build on the experience it has had to date, which
donors have acknowledged as substantial, and provide additional leadership in coordinating
donor assistance from its position as manager of the ARTF. Moreover, considering the
importance of administrative and personnel management reform that will be involved in making
the transition, IDA would provide a bridge for the MOF to the overall Public Administration
Reform (PAR) and civil service reform programs through its leadership in these two related
fields.


2. Proposed objective(s)
       Operationally, the Government would realize two main development objectives (PDOs)
through the project: operate a PFM system that is efficient, effective, transparent and certifiably
corruption-free by international standards; and build human capacity in the Ministry of Finance
and the Office of the Auditor General to increasingly take responsibility for operating PFM
systems, which are seen as competent, honest, motivated and responsive to change.

        To meet these overall development objectives, MOF would also: restructure institutions
and de-concentrate financial management operations in line with capacity development in
selected line ministries and moustufaits; introduce additional advanced systems that meet
improved accountability and transparency norms; organize to manage its human resources
following upgraded recruitment, career management and incentives standards; and sustain the
reform process through improved monitoring and evaluation of progress, and change
management.

3. Preliminary description

    Over a period of 3 years, the project would implement 4 components, in anticipation that a
further 2-3 years would extend the work, once a favorable “mid term review? had taken place.

Component 1. Institutional Development: The project would assist each of the major
departments within MOF to implement its own restructuring plan (see RMU, below). The project
would also assist the treasury, internal audit and procurement departments to strengthen specific
activities for which they are responsible (for example, extending IT-based financial management
systems to line ministries and moustufaits; deepening the regulatory framework governing
audits; operationalizing procurement, treasury and internal audit functions in line ministries).

Component 2. Human resources capacity development: The project would assist a new human
resources management unit in the Ministry of Finance to provide cross-department personnel
management services and the organization of training programs. It would be responsible for
recruitment according to the department’s staffing plan, while meeting national standards
grading, merit-based recruitment, pay, promotion, separation and retirement. The Office of the
Audit General will be assisted by a major training program with formal and informal training of
core audit staff.

Component 3. Reform Management: A Reform Management Unit (RMU) established under the
office of the Minister would manage implementation of the reform program that would cover the
restructuring of the departments of the ministry, support the development of the human resources
management department, coordination donor assistance to the ministry, be responsible for
monitoring and evaluation the MOF progress. It would also provide adequate communications
with stakeholders within the MOF, cabinet, legislature and civil society.

Component 4. Direct Operational Support: The project would continue to provide direct
assistance to guarantee procurement, treasury and external audit services to government during a
period of transition of elements of the responsibility for these functions to mainstream civil
service staff.


4. Safeguard policies that might apply:




5. Tentative financing
Source:                                                                         ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                 0
IDA Grant                                                                         38
                                                                     Total        38

6. Contact point
Contact:    Paul Edwin Sisk
Title:      Sr Financial Management Specialist
Tel:        93 (0) 70 9 079 309
Email:      Psisk@worldbank.org
Location:   Kabul, Afghanistan
