Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2965 
Project Name 
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P099980 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Audit General  
Afghanistan 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 03, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 03,  2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 29, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Since 2002 the GOA has made progress in establishing a functioning public financial 
management system under the direction of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The MOF is 
producing annual budgets that meet basic requirements of the GOA-IMF-Donor approved 
Medium Term Financing Framework (MTFF), and meeting internationally accepted standards of 
PFM performance at an acceptable level. Importantly, the GOA has also established the basic 
legal framework underlying the PFM and procurement systems.  
 
However, these achievements have been obtained with a high degree of direct donor 
assistance for costly direct operations contracts with international firms, including the hiring of 
qualified Afghans on local-hire contracts. This is not considered to be a sustainable situation, i.e. 
one in which more of the responsibility and accountability for PFM resides directly with the civil 
service in MOF.  The Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS) has identified both 
improving the performance of financial management services and capacity building to permit 
these services to be mainstreamed into the MOF and line ministries as part of their core 
operations. The MOF has developed a Strategic Plan for the years 1384-89 (2006-2010) to 
accomplish this.  
 
The broad plan
for making this transition would be (i) to continue to provide operational 
support for basic operations through the services of internationally recruited firms, while (ii) 
making further steps to re-organize the MOF and line ministries in a more de-concentrated PFM 
system; (iii) deepening the regulatory framework and building human resource capacity to 
facilitate mainstreaming of operations; and (iv) managing these changes to assure their longer 
term sustainability. This plan is also largely consistent with the World Bank’s strategy to assist 
the GOA, and with technical diagnosis of the MOF’ needs, and recommendations for reforms 
Page  2
outlined in 
Afghanistan: Managing Public Finance for Development
,
World Bank, November 
2005. 
 
To achieve its goals, however, the MOF will have to address several organizational and 
capacity constraints, including: an internal ministry organization that is only partially 
moder
nized; an overly centralized, donor driven and “transaction-based” financial management 
and control system that assures credibility but not efficiency; inadequately trained, managed and 
remunerated civil service personnel; and resistance to changes that may require several years. 
The government also faces the challenge of maintaining a high level of credibility and 
accountability in its financial management while making reforms. 
 
IDA has supported the MOF and the Office of the Auditor General through 3 previous 
operations, mainly focused on assuring basic treasury and audit functions through direct support 
contracts, with some attention to training and developing the legal framework.  In the next phase 
of its support, IDA’s value added would be to build on the experience it has had to date, which 
donors have acknowledged as substantial, and provide additional leadership in coordinating 
donor assistance from its position as manager of the ARTF. Moreover, considering the 
importance of administrative and personnel management reform that will be involved in making 
the transition, IDA would provide a bridge for the MOF to the overall Public Administration 
Reform (PAR) and civil service reform programs through its leadership in these two related 
fields.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The project’s two development objectives (PDOs) are: i) to achieve a PFM system that is 
efficient (timely, accurate, professionalized, cost constrained),  effective (inclusive and 
coordinated within Afghanistan, communicative with donors, transparent) and contributes  to an 
accountable state; and  ii) to maintain  staffing in the MOF and CAO which increasingly takes 
responsibility for operating PFM systems, and are seen as competent, of high integrity motivated 
(committed and stable) and responsive to change. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The PFMR Project will be implemented over a period of 3 years and will contain the 
following components. 
 
Component 1.  Institutional Development
:
The project would assist each of the major 
departments within MOF to implement its own restructuring plan (see RMU, below). The project 
would also assist the treasury, internal audit and procurement departments to strengthen specific 
activities for which they are responsible (i.e. extending IT-based financial management systems 
to line ministries and moustoufiats; deepening the regulatory framework governing audits; 
operationalizing procurement, treasury and internal audit functions in line ministries).  
 
Component 2.
Human resources capacity development
:
The transfer of skills to civil servants to 
operate PFM systems lies at the heart of sustainability of adequate PFM performance. Under this 
Page  3
component, the project would provide consultants, training opportunities and materials for the 
development of skills of MOF staff, centrally and in the provinces, to line ministry staff in 
procurement and financial management and to staff of the CAO. In selecting staff for training, 
which in turn leads to advancement, the MoF and the CAO will be sensitive
 
to and follow 
gender-sensitive policies. 
 
Component 3.
Reform Management
:
A
Reform Management Unit (RMU) established under the 
office of the Minister would manage implementation of the reform program that would cover the 
restructuring of the departments of the ministry, support the development of the human resources 
management department, coordination donor assistance to the ministry, be responsible for 
monitoring and evaluation the MOF progress. It would also provide adequate communications 
with stakeholders within the MOF, cabinet, legislature and civil society.  
 
Component 4. Direct Operational Support
:
The project would continue to provide direct 
assistance to guarantee procurement, treasury and external audit services to government during a 
period of transition of elements of the responsibility for these functions to mainstream civil 
service staff. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply:  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
33.4 
 Total 
33.4 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact:  
Paul Edwin Sisk 
Title:    
Sr Financial Management Specialist 
Tel: 
 
 93 (0) 70 9 079 309 
Email:   
Psisk@worldbank.org 
Location:  
Kabul, Afghanistan
Page  4
