Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC2358 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/02/2007 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Afghanistan 
Project ID: P099980 
Project Name: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT 
Task Team Leader: Paul Edwin Sisk 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 2, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: May 29, 2007 
Managing Unit: SARFM 
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector: Central government administration (100%) 
Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
38.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
Operationally, MOF would realize two main development objectives (PDOs) through the project: 
operate a PFM system that is efficient, effective, transparent and certifiably corruption-free by 
international standards; and build human capacity in the Ministry of Finance to increasingly  take 
responsibility for operating PFM systems, which are seen as competent, honest, motivated and 
responsive to change.  
 
To meet these overall development objectives, MOF would also: restructure institutions and de-
concentrate operations in line with capacity development in selected line ministries and 
moustufaits; introduce additional advanced PFM systems that meet improved accountability and 
transparency norms; organize to manage its human resources following upgraded recruitment, 
career management and incentives standards; and sustain the reform process through improved 
monitoring and evaluation of progress, and change management.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
Over a period of 3 years, the project would implement 4 components, in anticipation that a 
further 2-3 years would extend the work, once a favorable mid term review had taken place.  
 
Page  2
Component 1.  Institutional Development:  The project would assist each of the major 
departments within MOF to implement its own restructuring plan (see RMU, below). The project 
would also assist the treasury, audit and procurement departments to strengthen specific 
activities for which they are responsible (for example, extending IT-based financial management 
systems to line ministries and moustufaits; deepening the regulatory framework governing 
audits; operationalizing procurement, treasury and internal audit functions in line ministries).  
 
Component 2. Human resources capacity development: The project would assist a new human 
resources management unit to provide cross-department personnel management services and the 
organization of training programs. It would be responsible for recruitment according to the 
department?s staffing plan, while meeting national standards grading, merit-based recruitment, 
pay, promotion, separation and retirement.  
 
Component 3. Reform Management: A Reform Management Unit (RMU) established under the 
office of the Minister would manage implementation of the reform program that would cover the 
restructuring of the departments of the ministry, support the development of the human resources 
management department, coordination donor assistance to the ministry, be responsible for 
monitoring and evaluation the MOF progress. It would also provide adequate communications 
with stakeholders within the MOF, cabinet, legislature and civil society.  
 
Component 4. Direct Operational Support: The project would continue to provide direct 
assistance to guarantee procurement, treasury and budget operations during a period of transition 
of elements of the treasury, audit and procurement departments to mainstream civil service staff.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Kabul, Afghanistan   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Not rated, considered low.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Page  3
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  03/06/2007 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Not required.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Paul Edwin Sisk 
02/02/2007 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
02/02/2007 
Comments:  ISDS is cleared for this category "C" project. 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Robert J. Saum 
 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
