Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H298-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Public Financial Management Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 17, 2007  
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H298-AF 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 17, 2007, entered into between Islamic Republic of 
Afghanistan (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
Twenty two million and one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights  
(SDR 22,100,000
)
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”) : 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Recipient’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Minister of Finance. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVNESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Kabul 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
-
3
-
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Anwar-ul Haq Ahady 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Alastair J. McKechnie 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) develop an efficient and effective public 
financial management system; and (ii) develop the human resource capacity of the MoF 
and CAO to ensure better operation of public financial management.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon in writing from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Strengthening Institutional Development
Support the MoF and the CAO by: (i) strengthening the Recipient
’s procurement 
related institutional arrangements and promoting social accountability; (ii) expanding the 
automated treasury systems and rolling them out to selected line ministries and 
Mustofiats; (iii) developing internal audit practices and establishing an anti-fraud unit; 
and (iv) developing external audit policy and procedures, and providing the CAO with 
office equipment.  
Part B
:
Strengthening Human Resources Capacity Development 
Support human resource capacity building activities: (a) of the MoF and line 
ministries in the areas of: (i) procurement, (ii) financial management, and (iii) internal 
audit; and (b) of the CAO in the area of external audit.  
Part C
:
Strengthening Reform Management
Support the RIMU in ensuring coordination in the implementation of the MoF 
functions and monitoring implementation of said functions across departments and 
Mustofiats.  
Part D
:
Operational Support for Public Financial Management
Operational assistance to the Recipient, through the provision of goods and 
consultants’ services, to maintain high fiduciary standards in procurement and treasury 
operations, as well as in the external audit of these operations.  
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Recipient shall vest the responsibility for the implementation of the Project 
with the MoF under the authority of the Minister. The Minister of Finance shall 
be assisted by a PFM Reform Steering Committee.  
The Recipient shall vest the responsibility of organizing and coordinating the 
daily operations of the Project in the RIMU which shall consist of a director and 
a
monitoring and evaluation officer. The Recipient shall maintain the director 
throughout the implementation of the Project. The MoF shall employ an 
individual as monitoring and evaluation officer, not later than six (6) months as 
of the Effective Date of the Agreement under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association. The RIMU shall provide, not later than, nine (9) months as of 
effective date of the Agreement, a technical advisor with expertise in the 
organization and management of large financial institutions and a technical 
advisor with expertise in human resource management for the duration of the 
Project implementation.  
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period six months and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each three months period, interim unaudited financial reports for the 
Project covering the period, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3. 
The recipient shall cause the RIMU to prepare a financial management manual 
documenting the financial management arrangements for the Project including 
outlining guidelines for project activities with specific requirements for each 
component implementing entity and establish a project financial management 
system in accordance with the Recipient standard government policies and 
procedures.  
4. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  9
-
7
-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding*  
(b)  Shopping  
(c)  Direct Contracting  
*National Competitive Bidding procedures shall be subject to the following additional 
procedures:
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used. 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any 
hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
Page  10
-
8
-
(viii) 
All bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid. 
(ix) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
(xi) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation 
shall be made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: 
(A) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified 
and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and 
qualified bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, 
then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the 
Association; 
(xiii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(xvi) 
Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence; and 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. The short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Quality-based Selection.  
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.  
(c) Least-Cost Selection. 
(d) Selection under a Fixed Budget.  
(e) Single Source Selection.  
(f) Individual Consultants.  
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a)  
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding, 
Limited International Bidding or National Competitive Bidding;   
(b)  
each contract for goods or services procured on the basis of Direct 
Contracting and Single Source;  
(c)  
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and   
(d)  
each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.  
Page  12
-
10 - 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 1,  
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(Inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, consultants’ 
services, training 
costs and Incremental 
Operating Costs* for 
the Project  
22,100,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
22,100,000 
 
*For purposes of this Agreement “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation support and management including the 
rental of office space;  the operation, maintenance, rental and insurance of vehicles; fuel; 
communications, supplies and charges; advertisements; books and periodicals; office 
administration and maintenance costs; bank transaction charges; utility charges; 
 
domestic travel and per diem but excluding salaries of officials and staff of the 
Recipient’s civil service. 
 
Page  13
-
11 - 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,300,000 
(US$2,000,000 equivalent) may be made for payments made prior to this date but 
on or after April 15, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures.   
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  14
-
12 - 
APPENDIX
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“CAO” means the Recipient’s Control and Audit Office 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
6. 
 “MoF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient.  
7. 
“Mustofiats” means the decentralized treasury offices of the Recipient.  
8. 
“PFM Reform Steering Committee” means the steering committee chaired by the 
Minister of Finance comprising deputy ministers, senior MOF departmental 
managers, a representative of the Ministry of Economy of the Recipient and a 
representative of the CAO. 
9. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 1, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
11. 
“RIMU” means the Reform Implementation Management Unit of the MoF. 
 
