                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 27477

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (FSLT-71740)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                              FOR A

          FISCAL CONSOLIDATION & COMPETITIVE GROWTH ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                         February 18, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Division
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                                 Currency Unit = US Dollar
                                                                   1 = US$ 1
                                                             US$ 1 = 1
                                                       Republic of Ecuador
                                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                                   January 1        December 31

                                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGD        Deposit Guarantee Agency, (Agencia de Garantía de Depósitos)
BCE        Central Bank of Ecuador, (Banco Central del Ecuador)
CAE        Ecuadorian Customs Corporation, (Corporación Aduanera Ecuatoriana)
CAF        Andean Development Corporation, (Corporación Andina de Fomento)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
COMEXI     Foreign Trade and Investment Council, (Consejo de Comercio Exterior e Inversiones)
CONADES    National Wages Council, (Consejo Nacional de Salarios)
CONAM      National Council for the Modernization of the State, (Consejo Nacional para la Modernización del Estado)
CONAREM    National Council on Public Sector Remuneration, (Consejo Nacional de Remuneraciones del Sector Público)
CONATEL    National Telecommunications Council, (Consejo Nacional de Telecomunicaciones)
CONELEC    National Electricity Council of Ecuador, (Consejo Eléctrico de Ecuador)
FCCGL      Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth Adjustment Loan
FEIREP     Stabilization, Investment, and Public Debt Reduction Fund, (Fondo de Estabilización, Inversión Social y Producción y Reducción
           del Endeudamiento Público)
FTSRL      Fiscal Tranparency, Stability, and Responsibility Law
GDP        Gross domestic product
GOE        Government of Ecuador
HDRL       Human Development Reform Loan
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
IESS       Ecuadorian Social Security Institute, (Instituto Ecuatoriana de Seguridad Social)
IMF        International Monetary Fund
LPG        Liquid petroleum gas
LSTR       Law of Simplified Tax Regime, (Ley de Regimen de Impuestos Simplificados)
LTRS       Law of Tax Rationalization and Simplification, (Ley de Racionalización y Simplificación Tributaria)
MEF        Ministry of Economy and Finance, (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
MICIP      Ministry of External Trade, Industry, Fishing and Competitiveness, (Ministerio de Comercio Exterior, Industria, Pesqueria y
           Competitvidad)
MIDUVI     Ministry of Urban Development and Housing, (Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano y Vivienda)
OCP        Heavy Crude Oil Pipeline, (Oleoducto de Crudo Pesado)
OSCIDI     Civil Service and Institutional Development Office, (Oficina del Servicio Civil y Desarrollo Institucional)
PACIFICTEL Pacific Telephone -- Fixed line telecommunications operator in the coastal region
PROMEC     Power and Telecommunications Modernization and Rural Services Project
PSAL       Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
QAG        Quality Assessment Group
RDOs       Regional Development Organizations
SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
SAPSB      Subsecretariat for Potable Water and Basic Sanitation, (Subsecretaria para Agua Potable y Sanitación Básica)
SBA        Stand-by Agreement
SENRES     National Technical Secretariat for Human Resource Development and Public Sector Remuneration, (Secretaría Nacional Técnica
           de Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos y Remuneraciones del Sector Público)
SIGEF      Integrated Public Sector Financial Management System, (Sistema de Gestión Financiera)
SOTE       Trans-Ecuadorian Pipeline System, (Sistema de Oleoducto Transecuatoriana)
SRI        Internal Revenue Service, (Servicio de Rentas Internas)
VAT        Value-Added Tax
WTO        World Trade Organization


                                               Vice President:             David de Ferranti
                                            Country Director               Marcelo Giugale
                                              Sector Director              Ernesto May

Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Jose R. Lopez-Calix

                                          ECUADOR
           EC FISCAL CONSOLIDATION & EQUITABLE GROWTH LOAN


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38

                                  Implementation Completion Report

                                           Republic of Ecuador

                           Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth Loan
                                           (Loan No. 7174-EC)

                                                 Preface

        This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive
Growth loan to the Republic of Ecuador; for which Loan No. 7174-EC in the amount of US$50 million
was approved on May 27, 2003 and was made effective on September 16, 2003.

        This ICR was prepared by José R. López-Cálix (Senior Economist, LCSPE) based on a report by
Fred Levy (consultant) and Elaine Tinsley (Research Analyst, LCSPE), who visited Ecuador in October
2003. The ICR was reviewed by Mauricio Carrizosa (Sector Leader, LCSPR), Vicente Fretes-Cibils
(Lead Economist, LCSPE), and Fabiola Altimari Montiel (Counsel, LEGLA). The ICR was approved for
distribution by Marcelo Giugale (Director, LCC6C). The Borrower, through Mauricio Pozo, Gilberto
Pazmiño, and Diego Mancheno, contributed to this ICR by assisting the team and preparing its own
assessment of the project, which is included in Section 9 of this ICR. Jose Francisco Irías, Michael Geller,
Maria Antonieta Gonzalez, and Diane Stamm provided excellent editorial and processing assistance.
Alexandra del Castillo and Ana María Villaquiran offered valuable support from the Bank's office in
Quito.

Project ID: P082739                                                  Project Name: EC FISCAL CONSOLIDATION AND
                                                                     COMPETITIVE GROWTH ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Team Leader: Jose R. Lopez Calix                                     TL Unit: LCSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 19, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: EC FISCAL CONSOLIDATION AND                              L/C/TF Number: FSLT-71740
                            COMPETITIVE GROWTH ADJUSTMENT
                            LOAN
   Country/Department: ECUADOR                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (70%); Other domestic and
                            international trade (10%); Other social services (10%); Power (5%);
                            Telecommunications (5%)
                  Theme: Macroeconomic management (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); Tax policy and administration
                            (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S); Regulation and
                            competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/26/2003                                     Effective: 09/16/2003                09/16/2003
     Appraisal: 04/16/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/27/2003                                      Closing: 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY & FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      na

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:                 Mauricio Carrizosa                             Mauricio Carrizosa
Team Leader at ICR:             Jose R. Lopez-Calix                            Jose R. Lopez-Calix
ICR Primary Author:             Fred Levy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Ecuador has long suffered from weak economic management, conflictive politics, and poor
governance. Coupled with natural disasters and vulnerability to wide terms-of-trade swings, and
despite substantial petroleum wealth, these weaknesses have resulted in poor growth
performance, extreme macroeconomic instability, deteriorating social indicators, large-scale
emigration, and unsustainable external debt. Largely as a last resort to exit from a severe
currency and banking crisis, Ecuador formally dollarized the economy in January 2000, effectively
placing the full responsibility for macroeconomic management on fiscal policy. Dollarization
brought price stability, reduced mismatchings in the banking sector, increased credibility in the
economic program, and contributed to the enforcement of fiscal discipline. The ability to conduct
a sound fiscal policy, however, has been undermined by a narrow and volatile revenue base, weak
tax administration at customs, and highly rigid expenditures complicated by overstaffed ministries,
an outmoded public sector wage structure, a heavy public debt burden, and inadequate
information and control systems. At the same time, dollarization removed exchange rate policy as
a means of offsetting market rigidities in the real economy that raise production costs, reduce the
competitiveness of Ecuador's goods and services and diminish the country's attractiveness to new
private investment.

A newly elected Ecuadorian Government (GOE) took office in January 2003.                  The Fiscal
Consolidation and Competitive Growth Adjustment Loan (FCCGL) was a one-tranche adjustment
loan to support the initial stage of the new Government's medium-term program for establishing
fiscal sustainability and improving the competitiveness of the Ecuadorian economy.             More
specifically, the Government of Ecuador's (GOE's) program seeks to enhance and make more
transparent the management of public expenditures, revenues and debt; improve operational
efficiency and pricing policies in the petroleum, electric power, telecommunications, and water
sectors; rationalize international trade policies; and bring greater flexibility to the labor market.
The actions supported by this loan have focused primarily on strategy and policy formulation; the
preparation of laws, regulations, and programs; and the initiation of institutional reforms and
needed price adjustments.       A number of its specific objectives were carried over from
uncompleted components of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) approved in 2001, and
complemented the structural objectives of the current Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) between
Ecuador and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).

Past difficulties in sustaining progress under adjustment loans in Ecuador led Bank management
to present the FCCGL as a one-tranche operation based on prior actions. Nevertheless, the loan
was intended to support a multi-year matrix of reforms, which, if sustained, could be followed by
subsequent Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loans (PSALs). At the time of approving the
FCCGL, the Board of the World Bank approved in parallel a first Programmatic Human
Development Reform Loan (HDRL). The latter operation, also carrying forward elements of the
earlier SAL, seeks to support the GOE's program to improve the targeting and effectiveness of
vital public social programs in order to shield the most vulnerable social groups in the face of the
required fiscal austerity. Efforts were to be initiated under both loans towards building a national
consensus around the deeper structural reforms that would be required to achieve the



                                                 - 2 -

medium-term objectives of the program. The two loans together were intended to make an
immediate contribution to economic stability.

Assessment:

The objectives of the FCCGL were highly relevant to Ecuador's current situation and long-term
development agenda. Along with the HDRL, the loan was an integral element of the assistance
strategy set out in the 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was presented to the
Board at the same time. Both the overall country strategy and the central elements of the FCCGL
were well documented and persuasively argued in high-quality economic and sector work carried
out over the past several years. As noted above, the program supported by the FCCGL were
initial steps for laying the institutional foundations of deeper reforms that would be needed over
the next several years if Ecuador is to realize its development potential. Given the weakness of
the legal and institutional framework in place after years of political conflict and poor governance,
the FCCGL necessarily emphasized process measures--for example, preparatory studies, the
formulation of policies and strategies, and the drafting and submission of laws in the first stage of
the program.

The risks of the operation, as described in the CAS and the documentation for the loan, were well
understood. The strong resistance of vested interests, the fragility of the new Government's
political power, the weakness of implementation capacity, and the economy's vulnerability to
external shocks all threatened, and still threaten, the sustainability of this program, just as they
have led to the failures of earlier reform efforts. Despite these risks, the advent of a new
reform-minded Government, Ecuador's immediate need for external assistance and support, and
the high level of collaboration among the international financial institutions fully justified the
Bank's participation and proactive efforts. By putting the FCCGL forward as a one-tranche
adjustment loan, and deferring the initiation of explicit programmatic lending, the Bank was
acknowledging that progress would likely be slow, and that only after this first stage might it
become possible to put a realistic timeframe on full implementation of the reform program.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
The FCCGL was conditioned on the maintenance of sound macroeconomic policies, interpreted
to mean that Ecuador remained in compliance with the terms of its IMF SBA. In addition, the
FCCGL was intended to support specific objectives of the Government's multi-year program to
build the institutional foundations for (a) sound fiscal management, and (b) improving the
economy's efficiency and growth prospects. Particular emphasis is given in the first phase of the
program to the achievement of stability and fiscal consolidation. The principal components of the
FCCGL in support of this objective are:

·        Strengthening the fiscal framework by enhancing strategy formulation, removing legal and
institutional rigidities that impede administration of the public budget, introducing multiannual
budgeting with quantitative benchmarks, and improving the information available to both policy
makers and civil society;



                                                  - 3 -

·       Increasing tax revenues through broadening the tax base, improving tax administration,
and modernizing customs administration; and

·       Improving public expenditure management through the immediate adoption and
implementation of an explicit austerity program, strengthening control over the public wage bill,
clearing debt arrears and adopting a medium-term plan for debt reduction, establishing clear rules
for managing the Stabilization, Investment and Debt Reduction Fund (FEIREP), and modernizing
and consolidating the accounts of the nonfinancial public sector.

The first phase of the program also includes initial steps toward improving the economy's
responsiveness and competitiveness, including:

·       Rationalizing and liberalizing the trade regime through reductions in the level and
dispersion of tariffs, unifying and reducing the number of required import licenses and simplifying
licensing procedures, and bringing technical norms progressively into compliance with World
Trade Organization (WTO) standards;

·       Improving the regulatory and pricing policies applied to public enterprises in the water,
electricity, and telecommunications sectors and making the sectors more attractive to private
investment and management;

·       Rationalizing the pricing of petroleum products, improving the management of the state
oil company, PetroEcuador, and achieving effective design and enforcement of environmental
regulations in the producing areas with the participation of the affected populations; and

·       Reducing rigidities in the labor market.

Further actions in all of these areas are foreseen during later phases of the program, which could
be supported by one or more adjustment operations. Several of these areas are also being
supported by Bank investment loans and technical assistance activities.
3.4 Revised Components:
No applicable

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There has been no Quality Assessment Group (QAG) review of the FCCGL. The conclusion of
this ICR is that quality at entry was Satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
All of the prior conditions for going forward with the FCCGL had been met prior to Board
presentation. This Implementation Completion Report (ICR), however, assesses progress toward
the medium-term objectives of the program supported by the loan. As will be seen in the
discussions of specific components, progress has had variations.           Progress overall toward
achieving the loan's objectives is considered Satisfactory.



                                                 - 4 -

In particular, important progress has been made toward establishing a workable framework for
fiscal management. The normalization of relations with creditors and the enactment of laws and
regulations imposing fiscal austerity, limiting new debt creation at all levels of government,
rationalizing public sector salary structures, strengthening the enforcement powers of the tax
authorities and beginning the modernization of the customs administration, and adjusting public
utility tariffs are long-sought objectives that earlier governments and adjustment loans had failed
to achieve. Extending and drawing full advantage from these forward steps will not be easy,
however. Resistance remains strong, and the potential benefits are not well understood by the
public at large. An open and informed public debate and strong leadership from the Executive
will be needed to sustain this initial progress.

The following discussion of the FCCGL is grouped under six broad headings: (a) strengthening
the macroeconomic framework; (b) modernizing the tax system; (c) improving expenditure
management; (d) rationalizing the trade regime; (e) enhancing the efficiency of the water, power,
telecommunications, and petroleum sectors; and (f) increasing the flexibility of labor markets.
The specific program elements under each of these headings, and the status of their
implementation as of February 2004, are summarized in Annex 1.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) The Fiscal Framework

The lack of an explicit and coherent fiscal framework has undermined the credibility of fiscal
management in Ecuador and left it vulnerable to constant political pressures for expanded
government spending.       The Fiscal Transparency, Stability and Responsibility Law (FTSRL),
passed by Congress in June 2002, sought to impose such a framework, but the Government at
that time did not issue the regulations that would make it effective.

Assessment:

Progress under this component is rated Highly Satisfactory.             Its sustainability is Likely.
Institution building is rated Substantial.

As a first step in initiating its program, the President issued an emergency Austerity Decree at
end-January 2003.1       The Decree put a freeze on the level of public sector employment2 and
wages, prohibited overtime work, and directed a 10-percent reduction in the incomes of all civil
service workers with monthly incomes above US$1,000, and a 20-percent reduction in the
remuneration of the President. The Decree also prohibited the signing of new contracts for
part-time workers or professionals, instructed that the 2003 budget for foreign travel be reduced
by at least 20 percent, mandated the sale of all public real property (including social and
recreational facilities) not indispensable for the normal functions of the agency, and prohibited the
awarding of prizes, receptions, subsidies, or the like to state employees. This was followed in
February 2003 by the issuance of regulations to effect key provisions of the FTRSL, including:
multiannual budgeting, quantitative targets for fiscal variables, a public debt reduction plan,
management of the resources deposited to the FEIREP, and enhanced transparency and citizen
involvement in monitoring budget implementation.           The FTRSL also prohibited the central


                                                  - 5 -

government from contracting loans on behalf of private or public enterprises, and permits state
loan guarantees only for basic infrastructure projects financed by multilateral institutions or other
governments, and within the established debt limits.

Putting the FTSRL into effect was a substantial step forward in establishing meaningful budgetary
guidelines and providing a framework for analyzing the macroeconomic impact of the public
finances.    Although more ambitious quantitative targets would have been desirable, the
regulations establish explicit limits on real primary expenditure growth; set multi-year targets for,
among other things, reduction of the non-oil central government deficit and for reduction of the
ratio of public debt to GDP; and mandate elimination over four years of the government's debt to
the Ecuadorian Social Security Institute (IESS). The regulations also define the financing sources
for FEIREP and direct how FEIREP resources are to be allocated.               (These provisions are
discussed below in the section on Expenditure Management.)            Preparation of the proposed
multiannual budget for 2004­07 is only now beginning.

Preliminary official data indicate that the 2003 budget targets could have been met. Despite the
actions taken under the Austerity Decree, public spending through October continued to grow
above the targeted limits, and additional cuts were applied to meet the end-year fiscal
performance criteria under the IMF SBA. The principal sources of expenditure growth were
increases in the wage bill and pension contributions, partly carrying over from actions taken
during 2002 but exacerbated by increases granted to teachers by the present Administration. Also
as of end-October, reported revenue growth in 2003 was running slightly below target, but the
apparent shortfall was expected to be eliminated by upward revisions in oil production and
earnings data. The collection of taxes on imports through August was some 5 percent below that
of the same period in 2003. The decline appeared to reflect tax evasion through smuggling, and a
questionable massive shift of import classifications to zero-rate categories (see below).

(b) The Tax System

Ecuador's tax base has been significantly narrowed by large numbers of exemptions under both
the value-added (VAT) and income tax regimes. Most of these exemptions have little economic
justification and have arisen over time as favors to particular interest groups, creating serious
inefficiencies and inequity. Tax collections are further eroded by weak administration and by the
large informal economy of small producers and merchants who keep few records of their
transactions. Customs duties and the collection of VAT on imports are undermined by large-scale
evasion, abetted by inefficient and corrupt customs administration.        The tax system is also
characterized by a large number of "nuisance" taxes, those enforcement of which is more costly
than the revenues they generate. The result of these structural deficiencies is a budget unduly
dependent on revenues from oil, and highly vulnerable to the variability of oil prices. The
discretionary management of fiscal policy is additionally impeded by excessive tax earmarking.
Efforts to correct these problems were the focus of conditionality for a floating tranche of the
2001 SAL; this tranche was ultimately cancelled after the authorities withdrew the draft tax
reform legislation in the face of Congressional resistance. The present Government's program
focuses again on broadening the tax base and improving administration, and sets quantitative
targets for improved tax collection.



                                                 - 6 -

Assessment:

Outcomes thus far under this component are rated Moderately Satisfactory. Sustainability is
Likely, but still vulnerable to reversal by Congress. Institution building has been Modest.

Tax revenues in 2003 under the jurisdiction of the Internal Revenue Service (SRI) have
significantly increased in line with program targets, buoyed by improved collection efforts and
high oil prices. The Government submitted a draft Law of Simplified Tax Regime (LSTR) to
Congress in May 2003. The proposed law was approved on first reading and cleared by a
committee for the second reading, but was then rejected. The draft proposed allowing small
producers and retailers to voluntarily pay a tax based on gross incomes in place of the income tax
and VAT, while making compulsory the presentation of billing invoices from suppliers. These
provisions have since been incorporated into a larger draft Law of Tax Rationalization and
Simplification (LTRS), which is expected to be submitted to Congress in January 2004.

In addition, the LTRS would, among other things, more rigorously limit deductions from income
for tax purposes, eliminate abuses of transfer pricing and reported interest payments abroad, and
prohibit the creation of new tax earmarking, while eliminating all existing earmarking not
explicitly mandated by the Constitution.3      It would eliminate the VAT exemption currently
accorded to luxury food goods and domestic cargo transport, among other things, and set out
norms for the rebate of the VAT to direct and indirect exporters. It would reduce the excise tax
on telephone services, while raising that on alcohol. It would also sharply reduce the tax on
vehicles used for productive purposes, while raising that on other vehicles (by lengthening the
standard amortization period). The draft LTRS would also require formal accounting statements
from all businesses with assets greater than US$60,000 or annual incomes greater than
US$100,000, expand the auditing powers of the Tax Administration, and authorize it to verify the
consistency of tax declarations with other sources of information. On the negative side, the
expected revenue generation of the LTRS has been significantly reduced by the inclusion of
provisions to lower taxes on corporate reinvested profits and to permit taxpayers to designate up
to 25 percent of their tax payments to go directly to local governments.

If approved in 2004, the LTRS would take effect in 2005. On balance, although the tax reform
bill put forward by the Government would represent a significant rationalization and improvement
of the current dysfunctional and distortionary tax regime, its fiscal impact appears likely to fall
short of what is needed to achieve the medium-term objectives of its macroeconomic program,
and its chances for Congressional approval are uncertain.

In April 2003, Congress approved the Customs Modernization Law, whose submission had been
a prior action required by the FCCGL. Among other things the draft law sought to improve the
collection of customs duties by strengthening the role of SRI on the Board of the Ecuadorian
Customs Corporation (CAE), giving SRI greater access to import bills and CAE taxpayer
information, restructuring the CAE, imposing stiffer penalties for the underinvoicing of imports,
and improving border controls. Quantitative targets were set for improved tax collections by
CAE. In approving the law, Congress watered down a number of its provisions, and, with



                                                - 7 -

continuing resistance to restructuring from customs officials, the Government enlisted the armed
forces to intervene in the CAE and to carry out the modernization program. A draft Strategic
Modernization Plan for the CAE has been prepared and is currently being reviewed by an external
consultant. An evaluation of CAE's staffing and a proposal for privatizing some of its services
are also in process. The restructuring of Customs has been slow, however, partly because of
actions of the outgoing administrators to dismantle the existing information system.         As a
consequence, the military's mandate, which was originally to end by October 15, 2003, has been
extended indefinitely. Meanwhile, tax collection by Customs has fallen during the year despite
rising trade and little apparent change in import composition. The decline has resulted largely
from an unexplained and likely fraudulent increase in the use of special exemptions and duty-free
zones. Significant continuing losses are also reported from contraband.

Earlier efforts at tax reform, including, as mentioned, that supported by the SAL, failed to
overcome the political strength of the financial and bureaucratic interests vested in the current
system of distortions and preferential treatment. Those interests have reportedly again mobilized
opposition to the present draft LTRS, and to the modernization of customs administration. The
challenge to the Government is to inform and lead the public debate of these issues and mobilize
those who will benefit from the proposed changes to overcome the traditional and well-organized
resistance to reform.     Even if the laws are passed, successful implementation will require
substantially upgraded technical and managerial skills, particularly in the CAE. The process of
litigating tax offenses, which can sometimes take years, requires substantial improvement,
including the training of judges. Long-standing efforts to reform taxation at the municipal level
need also to be intensified to increase local tax bases and reduce their dependence on transfers
from the center. Updated land and property cadastres are needed to make these efforts effective.
Support for intensive technical assistance in all these areas will be needed from the international
agencies.

(c) Expenditure Management

The government's ability to manage public expenditures is severely compromised by structural
rigidities that leave as little as 5 percent of annual central government expenditures subject to
discretionary policy decisions. The unusual and excessive degree to which state revenues are
earmarked by law, accounting for about 30 percent of total expenditures in 2002, has been noted
above. The servicing of the public debt, before recently negotiated write-downs and rescheduling
(see below), accounted for another 35 percent of total expenditures.            In addition, the
government's wage bill absorbed about 30 percent of government spending (including debt
service) and more than doubled in U.S. dollar terms between 2000 and 2002 as a result of large
increases in wages and benefits agreed by the previous administration.

Efforts to reduce the number and value of earmarked taxes are discussed above. In order to
increase the room for discretionary fiscal management, the GOE's reform program also contains
measures to (a) reduce the public debt, (b) bring greater order and control to public staffing and
the wage bill, and (c) strengthen the financial information and management system. These latter
three subcomponents are discussed in turn.




                                                - 8 -

(i) Reduction of the public debt.      The first phase of the Government's program called for
eliminating public debt arrears. As prior actions for the approval of the FCCGL, all external
public debt arrears outstanding as of February 28, 2003 were eliminated, as well as arrears on all
domestic bonded debt by March 31, 2003. Subsequent measures were to clear all remaining
arrears during 2003 and to prepare a Debt Reduction Plan to meet the targets established in the
FTSRL.      About half of Ecuador's external debt service is accounted for by Global bonds,
high-interest-rate obligations that were exchanged for Brady bonds in 2000.4

Assessment:

Outcomes so far under this subcomponent are rated Satisfactory. The sustainability of the
measures appears Likely. The institution building achieved is considered Substantial.

Establishing an explicit legal commitment and schedule for debt reduction, and placing constraints
on new borrowings by both the central and local governments, were substantial achievements.
The initial debt clearance objectives supported by the FCCGL were achieved on schedule, and
Ecuador successfully concluded its negotiations with the Paris Club. Bilateral negotiations with
Club members are now in progress. A Debt Reduction Plan, set out as a benchmark for a possible
follow-up PSAL, was issued by the Minister of Economy and Finance on August 12, 2003. The
latter requires reducing the public debt-to-GDP ratio by 16 percentage points (from 63 percent at
end-2002 to 47 percent before the end of the Government's four-year term of office), including
elimination of its debt to IESS, and to continue reducing the ratio beyond that date until reaching
40 percent.5 Work has begun in the Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE) to develop capacity for the
strategic management of the debt. Some US$300­400 million are expected to flow to the
FEIREP in 2004, the bulk of which is to be used for debt reduction. Under the provisions of the
FTRSL, 70 percent of FEIREP resources each year are to be used to repurchase external public
debt and repay debt to IESS; 20 percent should be held on deposit for limited expenditures to
relieve legally declared natural disasters or to compensate the budget for an unexpected decline in
oil prices; and the remaining 10 percent is to be spent on basic infrastructure projects in education
and health. Delay in completing the Heavy Crude Oil Pipeline (OCP), and issues regarding the
definition of "heavy crude oil" and whether only oil transported by the OCP would generate
revenues for FEIREP, held up implementation of this provision of the FTSRL in 2003.            In the
meantime, the state's oil revenues have continued to flow directly to the budget. The channeling
of resources to FEIREP will reduce the direct revenue flow to the budget.6 The sustainability of
these debt reduction efforts could be threatened by sentiment, both inside and outside the
government, that the country should halt servicing the external debt, and give precedence instead
to the "social debt."

(ii) Control of the state's wage bill. The control of public sector wages has been complicated by,
among other things, the large number of public enterprises and autonomous agencies outside the
central budget, by the lack of a comprehensive human resources policy, excessive hiring discretion
in the hands of agency managers, the application of different salary schedules by different
agencies, and by a large number of salary supplements created in the various agencies over the
years, partly to avoid pension charges and/or to get around centrally imposed limits. Many of
these components were indexed to prices or to the minimum wage, thus building in



                                                 - 9 -

difficult-to-predict pay increases outside the control of the authorities. Fragmentation of the pay
system has also created serious inequities in the pay received by workers across the public sector,
resulting in constant pressures for redress by those considering themselves disadvantaged.
Moreover, the government has lacked a comprehensive database of the number, grade, salaries,
and skill profiles of public employees, making it impossible to formulate policy for human
resource development or to reliably estimate the fiscal impact of pay adjustments. The absence of
information also opened the door to reportedly large numbers of "phantom" workers, and the
return to public jobs of workers previously dismissed and indemnified.

As a prior action under the FCCGL, the Government drafted a Public Sector Wage Unification
Law, consolidating the plethora of salary supplements being paid to central government civil
servants into the base wage, and defining the institutional mechanisms for implementing wage
policy. This was to be followed by the submission to Congress of a draft Law on Civil Service
and Administrative Career, which would, inter among other things, establish an agency for
implementing the new public human resources policy. As a benchmark for a subsequent PSAL,
staffing reviews were to be carried out in at least the Ministries of Health, Education, Public
Works, Agriculture, and Social Welfare to register all civil service positions, verify existing
vacancies, and evaluate functions and responsibilities.

Assessment:

Achievement under this subcomponent is rated Satisfactory. Sustainability is considered Likely.
Institutional development is Substantial.

A combined Organic Law of the Civil Service and Administrative Career and of the Unification
and Uniformization of Public Sector Remuneration was approved by Congress and published in
the Official Register on October 6, 2003. Among the provisions of the Law is the creation of a
National Technical Secretariat for Human Resource Development and Public Sector
Remuneration (SENRES). Its responsibilities include the formulation of policies, norms, and
instruments for managing the organizational and human resources of the public sector; the
administration of a national information system on organizational management, human resources,
and the incomes of public sector employees; and evaluation of the remuneration policies and
norms issued by the National Council on Public Sector Remuneration (CONAREM), for which it
serves as Technical Secretariat. SENRES is also charged with elaborating a system for classifying
civil service positions on the basis of work complexity, level of responsibility, required education
and experience, and location. Completing a process begun in 2000, the Law unifies most public
employee wage components into a single base wage, effective January 1, 2004,7 prohibits the
creation of any new wage complements or benefits, and mandates that the 14-grade pay scale
already in effect in some agencies be put uniformly into effect in all covered agencies.8 The Law
stipulates, moreover, that the percentage increase in the total payroll costs of the agencies
covered may not exceed that allowed for primary expenditures as a whole under the FTSRL.
Congress, however, exempted teachers, military, and the police from inclusion under the Law.
These groups together account for about 60 percent of public servants.9 Nevertheless, pay raises
for all state employees, and the creation of new positions, are explicitly subject to the budgetary
spending limits set by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF).



                                                - 10 -

Studies leading to the reclassification of jobs and to the specification of agency-specific job needs,
as a function of responsibilities and tasks actually performed, have been or are being carried out in
all the agencies covered by the law. This analysis is expected to lead to recommendations for
significant staff reductions and realignments of skill profiles, resulting eventually in a leaner and
more efficient public sector. The studies and database being assembled are also essential to the
identification of staff training needs and the mounting of programs to meet them.

Budgetary savings from the improved wage controls and the anticipated reduction in public sector
employment will not be realized immediately, however. Indeed, the short-term impact on the
budget will be to increase spending, because the unification of pay scales will result in increased
remuneration for some workers, particularly at the lower pay levels,10 and will increase the base
for calculation of pension contributions and the so-called thirteenth and fourteenth salaries.
Upward pay adjustments resulting from the uniformization of the pay scales are to be phased
across the 2005­09 budgets. In addition, large severance payments will have to be paid to
workers dismissed as a consequence of agency downsizing, a cost which itself is likely to slow
significantly the government's ability to implement it.         This problem was exacerbated by
Congress, which amended the draft submitted by the Executive to significantly increase severance
payments. In December 2003, the Executive submitted for the urgent attention of Congress
several amendments to the law to reverse this and other changes that would raise the fiscal costs
of the reform, and those amendments were approved in January 2004. Meanwhile, some savings
are being achieved from the identification and elimination of "phantom workers" made possible by
the increasing use of the Central Bank's electronic payments system, which deposits paychecks
directly into worker bank accounts. Improvements in the worker database, now proceeding under
the jurisdiction of SENRES, should result in additional savings.

(iii) Financial information and management.         The Government's ability to manage overall
expenditures is seriously hindered by the lack of an effective information and financial
management system to provide the budgetary authorities, and the general public, timely and
reliable information regarding budget implementation.         A World Bank investment loan was
approved in March 2002 to support the technological upgrading of the existing Integrated Public
Sector Financial Management System (SIGEF) to broaden its coverage and permit the timely
consolidation of the public sector accounts, and strengthening the Office of the Contraloría
General.11 The signing of the loan was delayed until August 2003, however, as successive
Finance Ministers under the previous Government and the new team under the present
Government raised questions about its priority and design.12

In order to strengthen financial information and control, the GOE's program calls for carrying out
the plans for upgrading the SIGEF system to produce timely and reliable monthly reports on
executed expenditures by mid-2003 and consolidated public sector financial statements to be
published on the government's website beginning in 2004.                 The financial accounts of
PetroEcuador, the public enterprises controlled by the Solidarity Fund, and Regional
Development Organizations (RDOs) are also to be published on the website beginning in 2004.
An electronic public procurement system, and a national public investment system are also to be
developed.



                                                 - 11 -

Assessment:

Outcomes under this subcomponent are rated Moderately Satisfactory.                Sustainability is
considered Likely. Institutional development is thus far Modest.

As a prior action under the FCCGL, the MEF prepared a Transparency Plan based on the above
three elements. The upgrading of the SIGEF system has proceeded slowly, however, for the
reasons noted. A consolidated financial statement for the central government is expected to be
issued by December 2004. Partial reports on actual expenditures are currently available on the
GOE's website. PetroEcuador's accounts are already available on the website, and MEF is
currently compiling the data gathered from studies of the RDOs. However, the Solidarity Fund
has so far resisted publication of the accounts of the state electricity and telecommunications
companies. An Executive Decree was issued on November 10, 2003 mandating the use of an
electronic procurement system, Contratanet, in all public institutions.        The system is now
operational, and an implementation plan, including elaboration of the necessary legal and
regulatory framework and training staff in its use is currently being prepared under the auspices of
the Commission for the Civic Control of Corruption.           During the subsequent stage of the
Government's program, a new Procurement Law is to be submitted to Congress to streamline
current procedures, incorporate revised consulting standards, and create a national regulatory
body to ensure proper enforcement of the legal framework. A work program is also being
prepared by an external consultant, in collaboration with MEF, to develop a system for the
monitoring and evaluation of public investment. This system is expected to become operational
during 2004.

(d) The Competition and Trade Regimes

The competitiveness and efficiency of the Ecuadorian economy suffer from, among other things,
an inadequate legal framework in support of internal competition, and costly administrative and
regulatory barriers to the formation of new businesses.13 High and widely dispersed import tariffs,
extensive and often duplicative import licensing requirements, and a multiplicity of technical
norms on imports, those primary purpose of which is to protect domestic producers rather than
the public health and safety, create significant anti-export bias.       Lack of transparency and
considerable leeway for discretional administration of these barriers create uncertainty, invite
corruption, and further raise the costs of external trade.

The Government's competitiveness agenda includes revision of the Law of Competitiveness and a
slate of external trade reforms, in addition to reforms in the infrastructure and petroleum sectors
(discussed in the following section). With regard to trade, the program calls for simplifying the
import tariff regime; to reduce the number of imported goods requiring licenses and simplify
import licensing procedures; and to reduce import processing time to only 24 hours by the end of
2003 (as compared to the current 40 to 60 days). The GOE has also committed to begin reducing
by 10 percent per year the number of technical norms that are incompatible with the WTO, or
convert them into norms that are compatible.




                                                - 12 -

Assessment:

Outcomes under this component are so far Satisfactory. Sustainability is rated Likely but
remains vulnerable to strong political resistance.    Institutional development has so far been
Modest.

As prior actions for the FCCGL, the GOE issued Executive Decree 233-A rescinding selected
tariff concessions adopted at the end of the prior Government's term in office, and the Foreign
Trade and Investment Council (COMEXI) issued a series of Resolutions unifying all duplicative
import licenses. The SRI has installed a system for the electronic processing of import licenses,
and final tests of the system were scheduled for late November. The system is to begin operating
in the Ministries of Agriculture, Health, and Industry, which together account for about 90
percent of licensing requirements. Preparation has begun of a Trade Policy Strategy, and working
groups have been formed to identify import licenses for elimination. A study is also under way
pursuant to the preparation of a draft Law of Administrative Simplification that would include
elimination of all import licenses requiring such legislation. On April 24, 2003, the Ministry of
External Trade, Industry, Fishing and Competitiveness (MICIP) issued a Directive prohibiting the
introduction of any new technical norms incompatible with the WTO.14              The Ecuadorian
Standards Institute, in collaboration with the private sector, has begun preparation of a list of
technical norms to be made compatible with WTO standards, but no progress in this regard is
reported thus far. A draft Law on Competition Policy has been prepared, and comments are being
sought from the business community. It is expected to be submitted to Congress in early 2004.

(e) The Infrastructure and Petroleum Sectors

(i) Water and sanitation. Ecuador's water and sanitation sector has been characterized by extreme
decentralization, low efficiency, inadequate investment, limited coverage, and pricing at only a
fraction of economic cost.       Policy and price-setting and service provision have been the
responsibility of more than 200 municipal governments with little central coordination. The
financing of current costs has been heavily dependent on transfers from the central government,
some 80 percent of which have been absorbed by the two major cities, Quito and Guayaquil.15
The financing and execution of investments in the sector have depended on the central authorities.


During the first phase of the GOE's program, the Subsecretariat for Potable Water and Basic
Sanitation (SAPSB) was to be restructured to strengthen its sector policy and leadership
functions, including setting standards and providing technical assistance, while shifting the
responsibility for executing investment projects to the local level. The second stage of the
program calls for the submission to Congress of a new water and sanitation law.                 The
Government also intends to gradually raise water tariffs nationwide with the objective of full
coverage of current costs within six years. Meanwhile, it plans to introduce an incentive formula
for the allocation of transfers that rewards operational efficiency and self-financing efforts. It is
hoped that these changes will lead eventually to increased interest from private investors to play
an active role in the sector.




                                               - 13 -

Assessment:

Progress thus far under this subcomponent is rated Satisfactory. The sustainability of this
progress is rated Likely. The institution building achieved thus far is rated Modest.

The Ministry of Urban Development and Housing (MIDUVI) issued a Resolution at the end of
September 2003 approving the agreed restructuring of the SAPSB. The restructuring plan was
prepared, with assistance from World Bank staff, and is being implemented, even though not yet
formally approved by the Civil Service and Institutional Development Office (OSCIDI).16 One
challenge will be to recruit or develop the skills needed to staff the Subsecretariat's new
normative and oversight role.        The National Council for the Modernization of the State
(CONAM), with financial support from the World Bank, has contracted a consultant to prepare
the new water and sanitation law and regulatory framework, and a draft is expected to go to
Congress by mid-2004. The establishment of a Water Fund to finance water investments in
accordance with uniform, performance-based criteria awaits passage of that law, with its financing
provided in the 2004 Budget.

As in many other aspects of the program, the sustainability of this effort will depend on the
Government's determination and ability to mobilize support from the potential beneficiaries of
these changes--namely, the large numbers of poor and rural families not currently reached by
piped water and sanitation systems--to overcome the inevitable resistance of those who should
start paying the economic costs of these services.

(ii) Electric power. Ecuador's electric power sector suffers from, among other things, inadequate
tariffs, political interference, poor management and bill collection, and substantial distribution
losses.17 Sector reforms initiated in the late 1990s stalled, and the sector is not financially viable
under present circumstances. The Government's program calls for the preparation and adoption
of a sector strategy to reduce its deficits, restructure its debts, and attract private investment and
management expertise. Practically all generation and distribution companies and the monopoly
transmission company are majority-owned by the State.18 The financial frailty of the sector, in
addition to political resistance and the uncertainty of the legal and regulatory framework,
continues to inhibit badly needed private investment.          Under the GOE's program, monthly
increases in electric power tariffs, which had been suspended in 2002, were to be resumed with
particular focus on households consuming less than 300 kilowatt-hours per month.          19The tariffs
charged to other customer categories were estimated to already fully cover economic costs.

Assessment:

Progress under this subcomponent is rated Satisfactory. Sustainability of the progress made is
rated Likely. The institution building achieved thus far is rated Modest.

The power sector regulatory agency, CONELEC, issued a Decree on January 31, 2003 to raise
electricity tariffs for customers consuming less than 300 kilowatt-hours per month. Tariffs for
these customers are being adjusted by 1.64 percent per month, with the objective of reaching full
cost coverage over a three-year period.20 By end-November 2003, prices had reached above 85



                                                 - 14 -

percent of economic costs, the level set as a benchmark for an eventual PSAL. At the same time,
CONAM, CONELEC, and the Solidarity Fund are preparing a strategy for increasing sector
efficiency and putting it on a financially viable basis. The draft strategy is reportedly in its final
stages of preparation, with consultations under way with the power companies. The bases for
contracting private management for the electricity distribution companies (and for the
telecommunications companies) were issued at the end of September 2003, and the deadline for
bids is now set for mid-February 2004. Creating a business environment attractive to private
investors is likely to take time, however, and will require an informed public debate to build the
necessary political consensus. Without a successful effort in this regard, Ecuador will remain
hard-pressed to achieve the management efficiencies and mobilize the investments needed to
expand consumer coverage.21

(iii) Telecommunications.     Problems in the telecommunications sector are similar to those
described for electric power.      Tariff adjustment initiated in 2001 stopped short of stated
objectives, and the prices for residential local calls have remained heavily subsidized by high rates
charged on long distance calls and public telephones. With competition for international long
distance calls now increasing, such cross-subsidization is not viable for the two highly inefficient
state-owned telephone companies, one of which, Pacific Telephone (PACIFICTEL), ran
significant losses up to 2002 and is unable to service its debt. Service quality is poor, and line
failures are frequent. Meanwhile, an outdated and internally inconsistent telecommunications law,
which allows substantial discretion to the two sector regulatory bodies, provides a discouraging
environment for the entry of private investors.

As prior conditions of the FCCGL, CONAM has adopted a strategy for modernizing the sector,
and CONATEL, the telecom regulatory body, granted a third license for mobile telephone
services in competition with the two foreign providers. The award went to a new company,
Telecsa, jointly formed by the two state-owned companies, PACIFICTEL and ANDINATEL.
They lack, however, the resources and expertise necessary to offer an efficient and credible
alternative.   Key elements of the sector strategy include finding private administrators for
managing the state-owned companies and attracting private investment and management to
Telecsa.22    Also under the GOE's program, the National Telecommunications Council
(CONATEL) is to draft a new telecommunications law that would, among other things,
consolidate the existing regulatory agencies into a single entity, eliminate existing legal
inconsistencies, and improve the regulatory environment for attracting private investment.

Assessment:

Progress thus far under this subcomponent is Unsatisfactory. Sustainability of current efforts is
uncertain. Institution building has so far been Negligible.

The preparation of a new telecommunications law is in process with the intention of submitting a
draft to Congress by March 2004. Meanwhile, telephone rates continue well below economic
costs and below the rates authorized by CONATEL in December 2001. The Solidarity Fund
published on September 29, 2003 the bases for contracting private management for ANDINATEL
and PACIFICTEL, with the objective of awarding three-year management contracts, followed by



                                                 - 15 -

two additional years of technical assistance, by mid-December 2003, but the process was
cancelled in February 2004, due to the lack of qualified, interested bidders. Bank staff has
expressed serious reservations about the probability of a successful outcome under the terms
being offered, including the unlikelihood that PACIFICTEL could be turned around in three
years.

(iv) The petroleum sector. Petroleum accounts for about 15 percent of Ecuador's GDP, 40
percent of its exports, and a third of state revenues. Nevertheless, weak management of the state
oil company (PetroEcuador), high wages and benefits, price controls on oil derivatives, transport
bottlenecks, and an unstable legal and tax framework have resulted in low investment, high
production costs, heavy budgetary subsidies, a poor environmental record, and a steady decline in
production despite large reserves and attractive exploration opportunities. Lack of transparency
of PetroEcuador's accounts makes actual costs difficult to ascertain, weakening external oversight
and thus leading to suspicions of corruption. The finances of PetroEcuador also suffer from
arrears in payments from the electricity companies, while new investment is dependent on support
from the state budget. Under its medium-term reform program, the Government intends to
reduce oil subsidies and make them more transparent, to enforce environmental regulations, and
to promote private sector participation in the sector.

Assessment:

Progress under this subcomponent is thus far Moderately Satisfactory. Sustainability is Likely.
Institutional development is thus far Modest.

As a prior action under the FCCGL, the Government issued Executive Decree No. 17, at the end
of January 2003, increasing gasoline prices by an average 21 percent and the diesel price by 3
percent, and has maintained its commitment to continue adjustments in accordance with market
conditions. It is intended that fuel prices be liberalized in 2004. The amounts originally allocated
to transfers for PetroEcuador in the 2003 budget were reduced by US$100 million, and a
comparable reduction is included in the 2004 proforma budget.                An external audit of
PetroEcuador has reportedly been completed, although the final report has not yet been issued.
PetroEcuador is also to prepare and publish an environmental impact study and carry on an
environmental management plans as required under existing laws. A contract award is currently
pending for this work, financed by the Andean Development Corporation (CAF), and is to be
carried out in consultation with the affected local communities.23 In parallel to the FCCGL, and in
collaboration with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and CAF, the World Bank is
assisting the MEF in undertaking an economic and financial analysis of the state oil refinery.

The price adjustments for petroleum products were an important step forward toward limiting
subsidies and allocative inefficiencies and improving investment incentives. The major remaining
subsidy is on liquid petroleum gas (LPG). Although defended as a real income supplement to
poor families, it is enjoyed by consumers at all income levels. Its removal will need to be
accompanied by a compensatory mechanism that targets the benefits to the truly poor. The MEF
economic and financial analysis of the state oil refinery will provide important clarification of the
true costs in the sector as a basis for more rational pricing and investment decisions.



                                                 - 16 -

(f) Labor Market Flexibility

Although the Economic Transformation Law of 2000 simplified wage policy in the private sector
and introduced more flexible hiring through hourly and temporary contracts and outsourcing,
Ecuador's formal labor market continues to suffer from rigidities that reduce the country's
international competitiveness. In particular, wage setting in the formal sector continues to be
guided by automatic indexing to future projected inflation, with intersectoral minimum wage
differentials determined by sectoral wage tables established by the National Wages Council
(CONADES).24 Wage setting on this basis is divorced from productivity, impedes adjustment to
changing supply and demand patterns, and contributes to unemployment and to the growth of the
informal sector.25 The rigidities introduced into the formal labor market contrast with and create
substantial distortions vis-à-vis the fragmented informal sector, where labor regulations are easily
evaded, and where wages and working conditions are highly sensitive to market forces.

Under the Government's reform program, a process of consultation on labor market reforms,
referred to as Labor Roundtables (Mesas de Trabajo) is to be launched with the participation of
workers organizations, employers, and the government in early March. Out of this process, it is
hoped to reach agreement, among other things, on a new labor code, arrangements for worker
training, the enforcement of labor law, retirement and pensions, and new guidelines for wage
adjustment that would include productivity growth as a principal indicator. During the first stage
of the reform program, the Government requested that the Bank assist in carrying out a labor
market analysis. The completion of a labor market assessment, in consultation with workers and
employers, was stipulated as a benchmark for a future PSAL. It is intended eventually to de-link
salary adjustments from the inflation rate and to transform the sectoral tables into non-obligatory
reference points for sectoral minimum wages.

Assessment:

No rating is given to progress under this objective, inasmuch as no specific actions were identified
for action under the FCCGL, and preparatory work for subsequent actions under the
Government's program has only recently begun. The analysis of the labor market is currently
under way with World Bank assistance, but so far without worker or employer participation,
reportedly reflecting a lack of enthusiasm by both parties.     With urging from the Ministry of
Labor, worker and employer organizations signed a declaration at the end of October 2003 "to
support the resumption of a systematic tripartite social dialogue." A larger follow-up conference
with the support of the IDB and the World Bank is scheduled for March 2004, and it is hoped
that these meetings will give impetus to the organization of the Mesas de Trabajo.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:



                                                - 17 -

Compared against the specific objectives set out for the FCCGL, the institution building that has
occurred since the beginning of 2003 has substantially met expectations. Measured against what
will be needed to reach the medium-term objectives of the program, however, the institutional
development impact must still be viewed as modest. Although concrete actions have been and are
being taken, the principal focus of the FCCGL has been to lay the foundations for more
substantive institutional reforms in the future. In this regard, some important foundation stones
have been laid: including the fiscal framework provided by the FTSRL; including establishment of
the FEIREP; the new Civil Service Law and its rationalization of the civil service wage structure;
the approved restructuring of the management of the water and sanitation sector; the institution of
price adjustments of electricity and petroleum products; and the normalization of external financial
relations.   The tax reform law currently before Congress will, if passed, also constitute an
important foundation for more stable, efficient, and equitable financing of public expenditures. A
number of important studies and strategy formulation exercises are also under way that are hoped
will lead to further improvements in the laws, regulations, and policies that will shape Ecuador's
competitiveness and growth prospects.

For these positive beginnings to take root, however, Ecuador's conflictive politics and the
powerful and long-standing resistance of vested interests to change will have to be overcome. As
recognized in the GOE's medium-term program, difficult and politically controversial measures
remain to be taken. To continue the progress made over the past year, a determined and coherent
effort will be needed to "sell the program" and build the internal political consensus that will be
essential to its sustainability.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The present Government inherited a precarious economic situation characterized by unsustainable
debt, large external financing requirements, and a history of frequent economic crises that had led
the previous Administration to formally dollarize the economy despite the absence of fundamental
preconditions for managing such a system--such as the institutional basis for strong fiscal
management, diversified export capacity, and flexible factor markets. Building these capacities,
moreover, and mobilizing the foreign and domestic investments necessary to make them
productive is made exceedingly difficult by political instability and conflictive, non-transparent,
and non-participatory governance.26         Given the Government's limited political base and the
fractiousness of the Congress, reform legislation that, by definition, challenges vested interests
faces uncertain prospects for passage.27 Laws submitted by the Executive are frequently rejected,
"watered down," or suffer damaging amendments contrary to Government wishes and
commitments. The Congress itself is under heavy political pressures when important economic
interests are at stake, and often lacks the technical skills and staff support needed to deal
responsibly with the complex issues involved.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In addition to the initiative it enjoys to prepare legislation, and thus to instigate and focus the
reform process, the government's principal mechanism of control is the state budget. Although its
freedom to allocate resources within the budget is restricted by the rigidity of previous
expenditure commitments--for example, debt service, the wage bill, and earmarked revenues--it



                                                     - 18 -

has clear responsibility for the fiscal aggregates. In this regard, the present Government, and
hence the management of the FCCGL program, has enjoyed unusual continuity in the leadership
and technical-level staffing of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF).28 This continuity has
been an important factor in moving the program forward.

The Government bears principal responsibility for leading and informing the public debate of its
reform initiatives and working intensively with the Congress to seek their passage. Those with
vested interests jeopardized by reform recognize the stakes and are long practiced in mobilizing
resistance to change. It is up to the Government to mobilize consensus among those who may
not understand the issues and their interest in them, many of whom have long been on or beyond
the fringes of public decision-making in Ecuador.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The program supported by the FCCGL covers a large number of measures to be taken across
multiple sectors and involving many different agencies. The FCCGL is also unusual in its multiple
interrelationships with other World Bank loans, as well as the IMF SBA and the assistance
provided by the IDB and other donors. The task of selling the program within the government
and coordinating its multi-faceted activities has been principally the responsibility of the MEF.
The continuity in MEF's managerial and technical leadership, noted above, has been crucial to
meeting this complex political and administrative challenge.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability ratings have been given above to the several loan components.              The overall
sustainability of the program is rated Likely, although precarious. The GOE has managed to get
reform framework legislation adopted by Congress where previous administrations have failed,
and, even though the versions adopted differ from the draft laws that were submitted, the changes
have not been as destructive of forward progress as in the past. Putting the FTSRL and the civil
service reform law into effect will make it more difficult to reverse the reform trend. This
modicum of success, however, may reflect more the sense of crisis that has opened public
willingness to experiment with change than a true swing of public consensus in favor of the
reform path set out in the Government's program. As such, the momentum could quickly be lost
unless the public is convinced that institutional progress being made is improving prospects for the
future. The protection and improvement of social programs being supported by the HDRL in
parallel to the FCCGL is a crucial pillar for building political support for the overall program.

All of the risks pointed out in the loan documentation for the FCCGL still exist and should not be
underestimated. The resources available for needed investments and social programs are severely
constrained, and private foreign investors, who could be an important source of investment and
the technology needed to improve competitiveness, remain skeptical. Vulnerability to external
shocks is great, institutions are weak, vested interests are well entrenched, and the Government's
political position is not strong.         Missing from the program so far is an intensive and
well-articulated strategy for building consensus among the public and for working with the


                                                    - 19 -

Congress and other centers of power to advance the program's objectives.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance has been Satisfactory.           The program was preceded and
underpinned by solid economic and sector work and extensive discussions with both the previous
and current Governments. Some of the specific measures were carryovers from the 2001 SAL,
for which the background work had already been done. The operation was well integrated into a
clear and coherent CAS that had been widely vetted with civil society organizations, and the
program's objectives are also being supported in a coordinated fashion by other elements of the
lending program. The program's coverage of sectors and issues seems excessively broad relative
to the coordinating capacities of both Bank staff and GOE counterparts. However, the measures
taken under the loan in some areas are initiating steps for which the GOE specifically requested
the Bank's imprimatur and advice. Overall, the policy matrix has served as a highly useful vehicle
for organizing the GOE's own internal discussions, strategy formulation, and implementation
efforts.

Collaboration with both the IMF and the IDB has been close and effective. All parties report
good exchanges of information and substantial agreement on the priority issues and measures to
be taken. This is seen also in the overlap and mutually supporting quality of the respective
lending programs.

The Bank helped to organize and has participated in a number of seminars and conferences with
civil society organizations in preparation of the CAS and the two recent adjustment loans and to
disseminate the background analytical work. This has been highly useful for bringing an analytical
and objective focus to politically volatile issues that have often generated more heat than light.
Such discrete events necessarily operate at a high level of generality, however, and usually lack
follow-up. Civil society representatives complain that they do not know what influence their
suggestions may have had, and, for the most part, they do not appear to have become active
supporters of the reform agenda. Given the urgency of building an active political consensus for
reform, the Bank should consider becoming more proactive in assisting the Government to inform
the debate of specific measures as they move through the political process.

7.2 Supervision:
Since the FCCGL was a one-tranche adjustment loan, there has been no need for supervision in
the usual sense, and a "gray area" exists between the supervision of the FCCGL and the
preparation of a possible follow-up PSAL, those results of which will only become known over
time. Through this dialogue, however, Bank staff have given substantial assistance and support to
the MEF and line agencies in the preparation and implementation of the program.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance has been Satisfactory.



                                                  - 20 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower preparation performance was Satisfactory in light of the delays normal to a change in
Government.      The new economic team began working intensively with the Bank team
immediately after the 2002 elections to prepare the Austerity Decree and other key pieces of
legislation, and moved quickly to put key framework measures into effect upon taking office.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Borrower implementation performance overall has been Satisfactory. Fulfillment of the prior
conditions for the FCCGL was completed, albeit somewhat later than had been expected. That
progress since has been uneven across the sectors and issues was to be expected given the broad
scope of the program, the weakness of existing institutions, and the conflicting interests at stake.
Despite the formidable obstacles, a sense of forward motion has been maintained. Nevertheless,
the Government could be more proactive in building the public consensus and gaining the political
support it needs to achieve its reform objectives.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance has been Highly Satisfactory. The counterpart team in MEF
has worked hard and well to coordinate the many activities and agencies involved in carrying out
the reform program.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The Government of Ecuador inherited a precarious macroeconomic situation with a high degree
of vulnerability to external shocks and the need to move quickly to establish the bases for sound
economic management and stable growth if yet another economic and political crisis was to be
avoided. The speed with which a turnaround could be achieved, moreover, was impeded by
economic rigidities, weak institutions, and a political system and governance tradition that had
long failed to mediate the deep conflicts among its social and economic groups. There is an
unavoidable tension in such situations between the urgency of progress and the practical limits on
the government's ability to enact and implement the needed reforms.           In developing their
assistance strategies and giving their support, the Bank and other donors must be sensitive to this
tension, judiciously weigh the risks, and seek an effective balance between pressing for action and
patience in assessing progress. The programmatic approach to adjustment lending is well suited
to achieving this balance.

At the same time, the enactment of laws, the reform of policies, and the restructuring of
institutions define the necessary framework for reforms. The implementation and success of
reforms depend, however, on the effective application of technical knowledge, skills, and
procedures.    Resources for technical assistance and training are thus needed in parallel to
adjustment lending support to make the latter effective. The benefits perceived by the line
agencies receiving this assistance are often also important to gaining their support of the reform
agenda.



                                                - 21 -

Efforts to bring public expenditures under control and to rationalize staffing levels and pay scales
can have, and be thwarted by, large short-term costs before realizing their potential savings.
External financial assistance may be needed and justified to move these efforts forward.

Finally, the ability of a democratic government to push reforms forward is itself a function of the
quality of the public discussion and debate required to build a supportive consensus.            The
international financial institutions have an important role to play in informing that debate in a
country like Ecuador, and this role should be an integral part of the assistance strategy. The
success of the reform program will depend heavily on the effectiveness of the Government's own
leadership in building support.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
       General Comments
   Given the complexity of the socio-economic and political environment of Ecuador, making
   general assessments on policy implementation can lead to misleading or partial conclusions.
   The background analysis of the World Bank's loan on Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive
   Growth should take into account a few domestic details that make the difference among
   countries developing similar reform agendas.

   For example, it could be argued that during the 1990s, there was a dominant period of relative
   political stability in Ecuador and, only at the end of the decade, did political problems develope
   with great celerity. Such assertion would modify the Bank's interpretation of the crisis of the
   end-1990s. It should be remembered that during the same decade, multi-laterals worked
   actively--jointly with different governments--in designing and implementing economic policy,
   with a focus on the reform of the State. Perhaps this narrow agenda, coupled with the illusion
   of an apparent economic stability (plus the "boom in domestic demand" linked to a fixed
   exchange rate policy), was another reason that prevented paying more attention to other
   development areas in a timely manner and with insight, which could have prevented the
   political crisis.

   With this background in mind, the dollarization process could be seen not just as a result of a
   "large period of political instability and economic crisis." Instead, it could have been the
   consequence of a too too-narrow focus of reforms in the 1990s, accompanied by a deep and
   rapidly developing mismanagement of the crisis of the financial system, despite the seemingly
   successful implementation of early financial sector reforms. The financial crisis obviously
   destroyed any government's legitimacy.

   It could also be an overstatement to identify as Ecuadorian particularities the "power of vested
   interest" or the "government fragility" or "the extreme vulnerability of the economy to external
   shocks." The political and economic history of Latin America, and in particular of the Andean
   countries, is full of similar examples. Besides, strong governments do not guarantee success in
   reforms. The Mahuad, Duran Ballén, and Febres Cordero administrations started with strong
   political and economic support, but finished with much lower results than expected.



                                                 - 22 -

It must be recognized that the acknowledgement of these complexities, however, has led the
World Bank to change the contents of its reform programs. At present, the reform program is
broader and the Bank seems to place more emphasis on accompanying the reform process
itself, than on simply verifying its outcomes. The overall success of this adjustment operation
should give credit to this positive change in focus.

The Project

1.   Overall, the project was well designed and took into account many elements reflecting
Ecuador's institutional shortcomings. The project provided enough flexibility to understand
these issues and, consequently, to consider policy alternatives.

2.   It must be said noted that the structure and composition of fiscal expenditure has
"perverse components" or incentives that are an obstacle to a sustainable path, but some of
them were introduced to correct previous distortions and with the multilaterals' blessing. Tax
earmarking, for example, had its origins in the need to reduce discretionary spending
allocations by the MEF, to eradicate corruption, and to be in line with the nascent
decentralization process. This mechanism was suggested and supported by multilaterals in the
1990s. Dismantling this structure in the 2000s has become complex and politically very
sensitive. The project rightly acknowledged such situation and preferred not to include any
policy action referring to tax earmarking.

3.   It should be indicated that the main objective of the new Ley de Servicio Civil y Carrera
Administrativa is to remove the inertial components that led it to increase the wage bill
annually.

4.   Similarly, the main proposal of the Tax Reform Law is not to increase tax revenues, but to
simplify the actual tax system, while building up new rules and procedures to (a) introduce a
transfer pricing concept; (b) remove fiscal loopholes, especially those related to VAT and ISR
tax exemptions and tax elusion through the deduction of inflated externally-related credit; (c)
eliminate special treatment for free trade zones, and (d) eliminate nuisance taxes. This should
be clarified.

5.   Two additional points:

a.   The "transitoria tercera" of the Constitution requires the Executive to honor its debt with
the social security institute--IESS--in 10 years, starting when an agreement is achieved and
signed, hopefully early this year.
b.   The Tax Reform Law does not consider a tax reduction for vehicles used in productive
proposes. The proposal is rather to maintain the current situation, which means that changes
suggested both in the amortization period and in the base table would not be put in place for
these sort of vehicles.

6.   The Report rightly highlights that the Government should put more effort to work into the



                                              - 23 -

"transparency issue." Notice, however, that two of the three reform areas related to this
project are supported by a technical assistance project with the World Bank. These areas are
those related to the implementation of the SIGEF and SNIP components of the Transparency
Plan. SIGEF II has just been approved by the authorities and, hopefully, with all expected
rectifications to be introduced to overcome past and present difficulties, it will achieve its goals
and satisfy the Government's high expectations about its future performance.

7.   It should also be stressed that in early January 2004, the President ordered the immediate
publication of the audited balances of all enterprises grouped under the Solidarity Fund and
their transfer to the MEF. A similar instruction was given to the Regional Development
Organizations. The President was very concerned and did not understand why this issue task
was not accomplished in 2003.

8.   Another positive aspect that it is necessary to highlight is that the on-going preparation for
a Free Trade Agreement with the United States is totally in line with trade reform commitments
agreed for March 2004 and March 2005 under the loan.

The Bank

The country acknowledges and thanks the great commitment to and pro-active attitude of the
World Bank team in the preparation and follow-up implementation of this loan. The close
support offered by Bank staff in designing and monitoring reform commitments, allowed
sufficient flexibility to understand shortcomings in the institutional environment, and provided
timely and focused technical advice and training to staff of the MEF.            The Government
sincerely expects that this support will be maintained in the development of further operations.

The Lender

The Government of Ecuador's main goal is to reduce poverty and create the economic and
institutional conditions to overcome the critical situation in which the majority of Ecuadorians
live. This project has introduced key initial structural reforms, those effects of which will only
start to materialize this year. We sincerely hope that the sustainability of these reforms will
allow the building of a base to consolidate economic stability, improve the standards of living,
and strengthen the pillars of Ecuador's development.

The role of the World Bank in preparing this loan has been crucial and respectful, not only in
terms of financing, but in terms of promoting a continuous and open discussion of development
trade-offs. This advice has resulted in better informing the Government about alternatives that
should be considered in defining the country's development agenda. Aware of paradigms often
associated to multilaterals, there has to be no doubt that the Government has, however,
preserved the autonomy of its decisions and the sovereignty of its actions.

Thank you very much.

Ministry of Economy and Finance, Republic of Ecuador



                                              - 24 -

   Quito, January 28, 2004

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information


Endnotes

1.       Normas para el Incentivo Patriotico al Ahorro, published in the Official Register on January 30,
2003.

2.       The health, education, and social security sectors were exempted from the freeze, but with the
stipulation that employment levels could in no case exceed the levels of November 24, 2002.

3.       The "tax expenditures" thus eliminated would still be honored with equivalent resource transfers in
the 2004 budget and converted in the 2005 budget to explicit expenditures subject to budgetary priorities.
The draft law expressly stipulates that care be taken not to abruptly cut off funding to the beneficiary
institutions.

4.       Global bonds maturing in 2012 carry interest charges of 12 percent, while those maturing in 2030
are currently paying 7 percent, with the rate graduating over time.

5.       Calculation of the debt to the IESS, which emanates from failures to transfer state pension
contributions, is complicated by the determination of the sucre-U.S. dollar exchange rate to be applied.
The amount is currently estimated at a range of about US$500 million to US$2 billion. Not covered under
this provision are the contingent obligations associated with the actuarial deficit of the IESS, and the
obligations of the Deposit Guarantee Agency (AGD). The FTSRL also requires local governments to
reduce their levels of debt relative to their revenues, and for those whose debts exceed 100 percent of
revenues and/or whose total debt service exceeds 40 percent of revenues to prepare four-year debt
reduction plans.

6.       Should this result in the need for additional debt financing for the budget, the fiscal savings would
come from the difference between the interest rates on new debt and the very high interest rates being paid
on the repurchased global bonds.

 7.      Specifically excluded from the unified base wage are the so-called thirteenth and fourteenth
salaries.

8.       Grade levels in accordance with the 14-grade scale are to be assigned to all covered employees no
later than March 2004.

9.       The terms of employment for these professions, along with the Judiciary, the Congress, and the
autonomous agencies, are governed by separate laws.

10.      For example, under the now abandoned 21-grade salary schedule, the lowest-paid workers received



                                                    - 25 -

only US$45 per month as compared to US$100 per month for the lowest-paid workers under the 14-grade
system. In accordance with the reform law, no public worker may suffer a reduction in pay as a result of t
the reclassification of his job.

11.      The SIGEF was developed under a previous World Bank Modernization of the State Project. The
system was first developed at the level of individual institutions and, by the end of 2002, was operating in
agencies accounting for about 85 percent of budgetary expenditures. It does not permit, however, an
effective consolidation of information for executed budget and use as a fiscal management tool, nor is the
MEF adequately staffed to manage the integration.

12.      A floating tranche under the 2000 SAL in support of public sector reform was eventually cancelled
for failure, among other things, to promulgate the agreed Law for the Management of the Public Finances.

13.      In the 2002 survey of the World Economic Forum, Ecuador ranked the lowest among 80 countries
in terms of business climate and respect for laws.

14.      Ecuador signed the WTO Normalization Code in 1996 but has not heretofore applied it.

15.      Consumers in Quito are reported to pay US$.04 per cubic meter of water, while those families
lacking connection to public systems pay an estimated US$5.00 per cubic meter.

16.      Bank assistance for institutional development in the water and sanitation sector, and for the
development of sustainable rural water and sewerage services, is being provided through an Adaptable
Program Loan approved in October 2000.

17.      In 2001, payments were collected for only about 69 percent of the power delivered to distributors.
Substantial payments arrears have accumulated in the system, with large amounts owed to the generation
companies and to the state oil company, PetroEcuador, which continues to supply fuel to the sector despite
nonpayment.

18.      The State shares are held by the Solidarity Fund, an entity that was established to administer
proceeds from the sale of state-owned companies and to allocate them to social sectors. These sales have
not occurred, however, and the Fund is ill-equipped to exercise its de facto ownership responsibilities.

19.      This group, representing about 60 percent of household electricity consumers, was estimated to be
paying only about 80 percent of the economic cost of their service.

20.      Estimated costs have also been lowered as a result of new investments and by lengthening the
nominal useful life of the sector's capital stock. Even with these adjustments, Ecuador's power supply
costs are significantly higher than those of its neighbors, and it is increasing its electricity imports from
Colombia and also anticipating imports of gas from Peru.

21.      A World Bank investment loan (Power and Telecommunications Modernization and Rural Services
Project, PROMEC) was approved in November 2001 to strengthen regulation and supervision of the
power and telecommunications sectors, expand services in rural areas, promote more efficient energy use
and environmental protection, and encourage greater citizen participation and consultation.

22.      Earlier efforts in the late 1990s to privatize the then-existing single state telephone company were
unable to overcome domestic political resistance and investor uncertainty, and ended with the split of the


                                                      - 26 -

company into two. Efforts similarly failed at the end of 1992 to attract private investment into the new
cellular company and resulted in the government-mandated joint undertaking by the two state companies.

23.      A grant from ESMAP is helping to train indigenous groups to negotiate with prospective investors,
while an Institutional Development Grant is supporting a tripartite dialogue on the development of
regulations for hydrocarbon investments in indigenous and environmentally vulnerable areas.

24.      Employers and employees can agree on additional wage increases through company or sector-wide
collective bargaining.

25.      The Economic Transformation Law also mandated the unification of salary supplements into the
base wage for private sector workers in a manner similar to that now under way for public servants. While
making pay more transparent, the immediate effect has been to raise labor costs to employers by bringing
the former supplements into the base for calculating pension contributions.

26.      The word "ungovernability" frequently arose in the interviews conducted in preparing this ICR.

27.      The Government's political position was made more fragile in mid-2003, when a group
representing Ecuador's large indigenous population decided to leave the Government coalition.

28.      In the previous 23 years, Ecuador had 29 finance ministers, averaging less than 10 months each in
office. In the three years during which the SAL was under implementation (February 2000­March 2003),
there were 6 six Finance Ministers with an average duration of seven months each.




                                                   - 27 -

 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 ISSUES*                             ACTIONS TAKEN AND STATUS AS OF NOVEMBER 2003
The ordering of issues follows that of the Policy Matrix for FCCGL, as presented in Annex 2 of the President's Report.

I. Macroeconomic Framework
 Weak macroeconomic                  A Stand-by Arrangement with Ecuador was approved by the IMF Board on
 balances and low                    March 21, 2003, and a first review under the program was completed, although
 credibility of the                  with several waivers, in August 2003. The second review is being completed.
 macroeconomic
 program.
II. Fiscal Consolidation and Debt Sustainability
 A. Fiscal Framework
 Pro-cyclical and erratic Executive Decree No. 121 was issued on February 10, 2003, regulating
 fiscal policies have               implementation of the Fiscal Transparency, Stability, and Responsibility Law
 resulted in                        (FTSRL) of June 4, 2002 and establishing the norms for multiannual budgeting,
 expansionary spending, quantitative benchmarking of fiscal management, a public debt reduction plan,
 lack of transparency,              investment by public enterprises, management of the Stabilization, Investment,
 resource misallocation,            and Debt Reduction Fund (FEIREP), and fiscal transparency and greater citizen
 and declining primary              control.
 surpluses.
                                    Preliminary official data indicate that the budget targets for 2003 set out in the
                                    FTSRL were met. The 2004 budget is consistent with the FTSRL benchmarks.

                                    A permanent commission to manage FEIREP, composed of the Central Bank of
                                    Ecuador (BCE), MEF, and PetroEcuador, was established, and the regulations
                                    for its management have been formulated. Issues regarding the definition of
                                    "heavy crude oil", from which FEIREP's principal revenues were to derive, were
                                    reviewed by the Attorney General (Procurador General del Estado), who
                                    reaffirmed that the revenues from heavy crude transported through both
                                    pipelines [Heavy Crude Oil Pipline (OCP) and Trans-Ecuadorian Pipeline
                                    System (SOTE)] should be transferred to FEIREP.

                                    A preliminary roadmap has been defined for preparation of the multiannual
                                    budget for 2005­07.

 B. Tax Policy and
 Administration
 A large number of tax               A draft Law of a Simplified Tax Regime was submitted to Congress in May
 exemptions and                      2003, but was rejected by Congress at the second reading. Its principal
 "nuisance" taxes,                   provisions have been incorporated into a larger draft tax reform bill to be
 revenue earmarking,                 submitted to Congress in early 2004.
 weak tax
 administration,                     Congress approved the Customs Modernization Law in April 2003, intended to
 inefficient and corrupt             reorganize the Customs Administration (CAE) and improve customs
 administration of                   collections. The armed forces have been given temporary responsibility for the
 customs, and tax                    administration of the CAE. A strategic Modernization Plan for the CAE is
 avoidance in the                    currently being reviewed by an external consultant, and evaluations of its
 informal economy                    staffing and of a proposal for privatizing some of its services are in process.
 significantly narrow the
 tax base and leave                  IRS tax collections for 2003 rose by at least 7.5 percent compared to the same
 revenues excessively                period in 2002 under a plan agreed with the Bank to increase tax audits and



                                                                         - 28 -

dependent on oil           intensify cross-checking.
revenues.
C. Public Expenditure
Management
Overall expenditure       Executive Decree No. 44, issued on January 22, 2003, froze the wages of regular
control: Information      civil servants, suspended overtime allowances, and reduced by 10 percent the
about the fiscal accounts salaries of civil servants earning more than US$1,000 per month. A budget for
of the national           2003, consistent with this Austerity Decree and with the FTSRL, was approved by
government, public        Congress in February 2003. These austerity measures, with the exception of
enterprises, autonomous teacher salaries, have been extended in the 2004 budget.
agencies, and
sub-national              The Government prepared and implemented a Transparency Plan including:
governments is            §          Significant upgrading of the electronic Integrated Public Sector
unreliable and untimely, Financial Management System (SIGEF). SIGEF is to produce consolidated
with little transparency  reports on executed expenditures by December 2004. Partial reports on executed
and disclosure.           expenditures are currently being published on the Government's website.
                          §          The development of an e-government system for public procurement,
                          which was prepared under the auspices of the Commission for Civic Control of
                          Corruption. Executive Decree No. 122 of November 10, 2003 mandated the use
                          of the system, Contratanet, in all public institutions, and the system is now
                          operational. An implementation plan for the reform of public procurement,
                          including the legal and regulatory framework and training of the pertinent staff,
                          is under development.
                          §          The development of a system to facilitate the monitoring and evaluation
                          of public investments. The system, which is currently under preparation by a
                          consultant hired under the Bank's Public Sector Financial Management Loan in
                          collaboration with the Subsecretariat of Public Investment in the MEF, is
                          expected to be completed in 2004.

                          The accounts of PetroEcuador are now published on its website. Similar requests
                          to the Solidarity Fund regarding the accounts of the state electricity and
                          telecommunications companies have been denied by the Fund, and a Presidential
                          directive was issued directing compliance. Studies of the financial management
                          of the Regional Development Organizations have been carried out and the MEF is
                          now compiling the relevant data for publication of their financial acounts.


Control of the public     An Organic Law of the Civil Service and Administrative Career and of the
wage bill: Inadequate     Unification and Uniformization of Public Sector Remunerations was approved by
information about the     Congress and published in the Official Register on October 6, 2003. Key
number and placement ofcomponents include the consolidation of all salary supplements of central
public employees, and a government civil servants into the base wage and the adoption across covered
complex payment system agencies of a uniform 14-grade pay scale. Proposed amendments were approved
undermines government by Congress in January to correct several distortionary additions made by the
control and results in an latter to the original draft law presented by the Executive.
inordinately high
payroll.                  Staffing reviews are being carried out in the remaining Ministries of Public
                          Works, Agriculture, Health and Education to register all civil servant positions,
                          verify vacancies, and evaluate functions with responsibilities. These reviews are
                          scheduled to be completed by early 2004.

                          A consolidated database to register all public employees and their salary benefits
                          was approved by Presidential Decree No. 571, published in the Official Register




                                                         - 29 -

                         on July 22, 2003. The Decree mandates that all public sector institutions should
                         use the Interbank Payments System of the BCE for making payments
                         corresponding to the remuneration of public sector employees. This will permit
                         cross-checking with the future information generated by a module of SIGEF, to be
                         installed and operated in the Subsecretariat of the Budget.

D. Public Debt
Inherited arrears and     One hundred percent of arrears accumulated on the external public debt up to
lack of transparency in   February 28, 2003, and 100 percent of arrears on the domestic bonded public
the management of the     debt accumulated up to March 31, 2003, have been cleared. No external
national and              arrears are accumulated.
sub-national public
debt.                     A Plan for the Reduction of the Debt, in accordance with the FTSRL, was
                          published in the Official Register on August 28, 2003 (Ministerial Resolution
                          No. 226).

                          The Attorney General issued a decision on November 17, 2003 determining
                          that all production of heavy crude oil would generate revenues to FEIREP,
                          regardless of whether the oil was transported through the new Heavy Crude Oil
                          Pipeline (OCP) or through the older Trans-Ecuadorian Pipeline System
                          (SOTE).

III. Accelerated Growth through Improved Competitiveness and Greater Market Flexibility
A. Competition and
Trade Policies
The present policy        A draft Law on Competition Policy has been prepared and is expected to be
framework provides        submitted to Congress in early 2004.
inadequate support to
competition. There are    Working groups have been created to identify import licenses for elimination.
high regulatory and       The Internal Revenue Service (SRI) has installed software for the electronic
administrative barriers   processing of licenses, and final tests are scheduled for early 2004. The system
to new business           is to begin operating in the Ministries of Agriculture, Health, and Industry,
formation. Inefficient    which together account for about 90 percent of all licensing requirements.
import substitution
results from high and     Preparation has begun of a draft Trade Policy Strategy to make Ecuador's
disparate tariffs,        policies compatible with its commitments under the WTO, the Andean Pact,
duplicative licensing     and the eventual Free Trade Agreement of the Americas.
requirements with
broad management          Executive Decree No. 233-A has rescinded selective tariff concessions that had
discretion and lack of    been effected in late 2002, and the Foreign Trade and Investment Council
transparency, and a       (COMEXI) has issued Resolutions 182, 183, and 184 unifying all import
multiplicity of technical licenses.
norms that do not
comply with WTO           On April 24, 2003, the MICIP issued a directive unifying duplicative norms
regulations.              and prohibiting the creation of technical norms that are not compatible with the
                          WTO. The preparation by MICIP of a list of technical norms to be made
                          compatible with WTO standards is currently in the hands of the Ecuadorian
                          Standards Institute in collaboration with the private sector.

B. Pricing and
Regulatory Policies
for Basic
Infrastructure            The Ministry of Urban Development and Housing (MIDUVI) issued a



                                                       - 30 -

The legal and              Resolution on September 30, 2003 approving the restructuring of the
regulatory framework       Subsecretariat of Water and Sanitation and changing its role from that of a
for the water sector is    direct executor of investment projects to that of sector leadership,
incomplete.                policy-making and oversight.

                           A draft Water and Sanitation Law is under preparation by external consultants,
                           and a bill is expected to be submitted to Congress by mid-2004. The
                           establishment of a Water Fund to provide financing for water investments in
                           accordance with uniform, performance-based criteria awaits passage of the law,
                           and its financing provisions should be included in the 2004 budget.

                           The electricity regulatory agency (CONELEC) issued a Decree on January 31,
Inadequate adjustment      2003 to raise electricity tariffs gradually for residential customers consuming
of tariffs and             less than 300 kilowatt-hours per month. The monthly increases were
operational inefficiency   maintained through November 2003, bringing rates above their agreed targets.
leaves the electricity     No progress is reported, however, in reducing the operational deficit of the
sector financially         electricity companies.
unsustainable.
                           The bases for contracting private management of the electric distribution
A deficient legal and      companies and both telecommunications companies (ANDINATEL and
regulatory framework,      PACIFICTEL) to private enterprises were published on September 29, 2003
inefficient                with the intention of awarding contracts by early 2004, but it failed to be
management, lack of        completed.
competition and private
investment, and            CONATEL granted a third license for mobile telephone services (to Telecsa, a
inadequate rates for       joint venture of ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL), and got a foreign
local calls result in poor management company. CONAM has adopted a strategy for modernizing the
telecommunications         telecommunications sector, including finding private administrators for
services and the need      ANDINATEL and PACIFICTEL and attracting private investment into
for state subsidies.       Telecsa, but bids have failed to attract qualified bidders.

                           A new draft Telecommunications Law is under preparation by CONATEL and
Large budgetary            is scheduled to be submitted to Congress by early 2004.
transfers are required
by the state oil           Executive Decree No. 17, published in the Official Register on February 4,
monopoly as a result of    2003, raised the prices of gasoline by an average 21 percent, and the price of
poor management and        diesel by 3 percent. Fuel price adjustments have been frozen, in an election
the failure to set the     year, but with a view toward liberalizing prices during 2005.
prices of petroleum
products according to      The MEF reduced the 2003 budgetary allocation for PetroEcuador by US$100
real economic costs.       million from the amount originally proposed. A similar reduction was done for
                           about US$100 million in the 2004 proforma budget.

                           An external audit of PetroEcuador has been completed, and the final report is
                           to be issued in February 2004. An environmental impact study of
                           PetroEcuador, financed by CAF, is to be developed in the second half of 2004.
                           Studies for developing an environmental management plan for PetroEcuador
                           have been completed. Their publication is pending.

C. Increasing the
Flexibility of Labor
Markets
Salary indexation          The Ministry of Labor has completed an evaluation of the labor market in




                                                         - 31 -

mechanisms create       consultation with workers and employers. As part of the process, a National
undue rigidity in labor Tripartite Dialogue is being mounted with the help of the International Labor
markets and could       Organization, and a conference on the "Reform of the Private Labor Market" is
undermine the           being organized for March 2004 with the support of the IDB and World Bank.
reduction of inflation. The Dialogue is to deal in a concerted way with all critical issues.




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not Applicable




                                      - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                        No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                             (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year      Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               February 2003                    6    Mission Leader (1), Sector
                                                     Specialists (4), Country Analyst
                                                     (1)
               March 2003                       8    Mission Leader (1), Sector
                                                     Specialists (7)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               April 2003                       7    Mission Leader (1), Lead
                                                     Economist (1), Lawyer (1),
                                                     Country Analyst (1), FMS
                                                     (2), Consultant (1)


 Supervision
               September 2003                   1    Mission Leader (1)                     S              S
               October 2003                     6    Mission Leader (1), Sector             S              S
                                                     Specialists (5)
               December 2003                    3    Mission Leader (1), Sector             S              S
                                                     Specialists (2)

 ICR
               October 2003                     2     Consultant (1), Country               S              S
                                                      Analyst (1)

Most of the identification and previous preparation and sector work activities were completed during a
November 2002 Policy Notes mission and a January 2003 seminar with Authorities. Several
complementary projects (particularly in power, telecom and water) allowed for joint missions, thereby
providing significant saving in travel and other operational costs. The key purpose of the September,
October and December 2003 missions was to provide agreed follow-up supervision and tailored made
technical assistance, so as to provide early assistance in the preparation of the measures to be adopted
under the next operation. FCCGL II is based on sustained progress in this loan.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    11.42                           194.87
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           2.00                            8.18
  Supervision                                     4.38                           29.54
  ICR                                             1.50                           29.98
  Total                                         19.30                           262.57




                                                      - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Fretes-Cibils, Vicente, Marcelo Giugale, José Roberto López-Calix. 2003. Ecuador: An Economic and
     Social Agenda in the New MilleniumMillennium. Washington, D.C.: World Bank., 2003.

International Monetary Fund.     2003.    "Ecuador--First Review Under the Stand-by Arrangement.,"
     Report No. EBS/03/110, July 24. Washington, D.C.

Ministro de Economía y Finanzas. 2003. "Plan de Reducción de Endeudamiento Público.,"          Acuerdo
     226, 12 de agosto.

Presidencia de la República. 2003.    "Ley Orgánica de Responsibilidad, Estabilización y Transparencia
     Fiscal.," Registro Oficial No. 589, 4 de junio.

Presidencia de la República. 2003. "Ley Organica de Servicio Civil y Carrera Administrativa y de
     Unificación y Homologación de las Remuneraciones del Sector Público,." Registro Oficial No. 184,
     6 de octubre.

Presidencia de la República. 2003. "Proyecto de Ley de Racionalización y Simplificación Tributaria.,"
     30 de octobre.

Presidente Constitucional de la República. 2003. "Normas para el Incentivo Patriótico al Ahorro."
     Registro Oficial No. 11, 30 de enero.

Presidente Constitucional de la República. 2003. "Reglamento a la Ley de Responsibilidad, Estabilización
     y Transparencia Fiscal." Registro Fiscal No. 18, 10 de febrero .

World Bank. 2000. "Proposed Loan for a Structural Adjustment Program." President's Report, Report
     No. P7377 EC, May 18.

World Bank. 2002. "Project Appraisal Document: Ecuador Public Sector Financial Management Loan."
     Report No. 23712 EC, February 25.

World Bank. 2003. , "Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Ecuador." Report No. 25817 EC,
     April 29, 2003. Washington, D.C.

World Bank. 2003. , "Implementation Completion Report for Ecuador Structural Adjustment Loan."
     (Draft), August.

World Bank.    2003.    , "Proposed Fiscal Consolidation and Competitive Growth Adjustment Loan."
     President's Report, Report No. 25786-EC, April 28.

World Bank. 2003. "Proposed Programmatic Human Development Reform Loan I." President's Report,
     Report No. 25791-EC, April 28.

Various mission reports, aide memoires, official letters, and memoranda.




                                                   - 38 -

- 39 -

