Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2304 
Project Name 
HT Economic Governance TAG II 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (70%); General public 
administration sector (30%) 
Project ID 
P095371 
Borrower(s) 
THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
204 Palais des Ministeres 
Port-au-Prince, Republic of Haiti 
Tel. : (509) 221-7899          Fax: (509) 223-4491 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI
   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 5, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 26, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
June 13, 2006 
 
1.
 
Country and Sector Background 
a. General Background:  
Following the resignation on February 29, 2004 of President Jean 
Bertrand Aristide, a Transitional Government wa
s created with a mandate to hold democratic 
elections in end-2005 and hand ove
r power to a new government in
 early 2006.  Faced with the 
formidable challenges of deep-seated political in
stability, weak institutions, inefficient resource 
allocation and usage, and the resulting mistrust
 of its citizenry, the Transitional Government 
joined forces with the donor community in April 2004 to prepare the 
Interim Cooperation 
Framework (ICF).
 The ICF identifies priority interventions and associated financing needs to 
support Haiti’s path to economic, social an
d political recovery throughout the July 2004-
September 2006 transition period. It also constitutes the foundation upon which a future 
medium-term 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 
(PRSP) will be prepared
. The ICF is based on 4 
pillars: (i) strengthening politic
al governance and promoting nati
onal dialogue; (i
i) strengthening 
economic governance and contributing to institu
tional development; (iii) promoting economic 
recovery; and (iv) improving 
access to basic services.   
b. Sector Background:
  Within the context 
of the ICF, strengthening of Haiti’s economic 
governance is considered 
sine qua non
 to promoting economic recove
ry, long term growth and to 
setting Haiti on a path toward meeting the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The ICF 
identified 5 critical areas in need of reform 
for long-term economic governance and institutional 
development to take root and 
thrive: (i) budgeting; (
ii) ex-ante and ex-pos
t financial control 
(including by the Superior Court of Accounts 
and Administrative Law and the fight against 
corruption); (iii) public procurement; (iv) st
rengthening of human resources for policy 
formulation and program implementation; and (v) 
public enterprise management. A sixth area of 
“other interventions” highlights anti-corruption 
efforts and the strengthening of capacity to 
monitor reform progress a
nd public sector outputs. 
Page  2
Since assuming office, the Transitional Gove
rnment has adopted a number of economic 
governance reforms deemed critical
 to increasing the overall transparency and efficiency of 
public resources.   
As regards 
budgeting
, the August 2004 enactment of a ne
w Organic Budget Law constitutes a 
major step toward establishing the foundations fo
r a more efficient budgetary structure. Progress 
has also been made vis-à-vis budget preparati
on. While in earlier years 
the State was left to 
function either without budgets or 
with significant dela
ys in their approval, both the FY’04-‘05 
and FY’05-‘06 budgets were approved in a time
ly manner and in acco
rdance with the steps 
dictated by the 2004 law.  Moreover, there has b
een an attempt to move toward results budgets 
(also mandated by the 2004 law) in a few ministri
es.  Haiti has also developed an automated 
financial management system, SYSDEP, which was 
recently installed in seven ministries. While 
it so far only tracks expenditures,
 and then incompletely, it has greatly improved the timely input 
of financial information. The MEF is aware 
of SYSDEP’s limitations and has sought donor 
assistance to expand its coverage and add ad
ditional modules to cover budget preparation, 
investment, contracting/purchasing, accounting, huma
n resources, and reporting.  It has also been 
willing to entertain suggestions that SYSDEP be replaced by one of the several integrated 
financial management systems developed commercially. 
With respect to 
financial control
, the Government has impleme
nted a number of corrective 
measures as prescribed by the ICF and called 
for in the Organic Budget Law. For one, the 
Cour 
Superieure des Comptes
’ (CSCCA) ex-ante control functions 
were removed and transferred to 
the Directorate of Budgetary Control, allowing
 the former to focus on ex-post auditing and 
thereby eliminating some duplication of functions
 and potential conflicts of interest.  The 
CSCCA furthermore filled a number of vacancies which had seriously undermined its ability to 
carry out its control functions. As a result, 
government accounts are now being audited more 
regularly in accordance with internationally accepte
d standards. Furthermore, the frequent use of 
comptes courants
 was drastically reduced to less than
 10 percent of cumulative non-salary 
current public expenditures sin
ce the beginning of FY 2004-2005. 
With support of the LICUS TF, a 
decree laying out the internal or
ganization and basic operations 
of the CSCCA was prepared, enacted and publi
shed in the national gazette. The LICUS and 
EGTAG I are supporting the training
 of CSCCA auditors in their 
new ex-post control functions, 
the evaluation of their initial pe
rformance, related equipment and 
training needs, as well as the 
elaboration of a medium term plan to further de
velop external and internal control functions.  
EGTAG I and IDB projects are working with th
e Government to define and create the 
inspecteur 
financier
 function. 
In accordance with the ICF’s recommendations a nu
mber of important measures have been taken 
to strengthen the 
public procurement
 system. The Interim Nati
onal Commission for Public 
Procurement (
Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics - CNMP
) was created and a  new 
Procurement Decree was published in February 
2005, strengthening the commission’s mandate 
and incorporating many elements of internatio
nally accepted procurement practices including, 
most importantly the stipulation that competitiv
e methods were the norm and not the exception.  
The Commission is now operational and as an im
portant first step, has produced a preliminary 
version of national Standard Bidding Documents to 
be used in the procurement of civil works. It 
has also begun a series of contacts and workshops
 with sector procuremen
t officials to publicize 
the new decree and the Commission’s role in implementing it. 
Page  3
As agreed to under the ICF, donors are supporting th
is effort by financing 
technical assistance, 
training, and equipment. Important progress has al
so been made toward 
increasing the overall 
transparency of the procurement function via th
e recent establishment of an Anti-Corruption Unit 
(
Unité de Lutte Contre la Corruption - ULCC
), the creation of a mechanism for civil society to 
monitor the Government program of economic 
governance reforms, and CNMP’s launch of a 
website that publishes government contract awar
ds as well as a supplie
r database.  Further 
progress in enhancing transparen
cy and civil society monitori
ng is being supported under the 
EGTAG I through technical assi
stance geared to supporting 
inter alia
:
 
the development of the 
ULCC’s anti-corruption programming capacities; the 
drafting of a freedom of information law; 
and an early performance evaluation of 
civil society’s new economic governance M&E 
mechanisms.  
With respect to 
HR strengthening
, 
important, albeit initial steps ha
ve been taken toward setting 
in place the foundations for a modern, 
merit-based, career civil service.  
B
oth a new civil service 
law and a law for the organization of the centr
al administration were drafted and enacted by 
decree in July 2005. A Coordination Unit was set 
up in the Prime Minister’s Office with a 
mandate to oversee human resource functions, as a 
first step to promoting the implementation of 
a new civil service law.  With 
support from EGTAG I, this unit 
has drawn up an action plan for 
meeting short and medium term human resource need
s. It has also initiate
d contacts with existing 
training institutes and with donors 
interested in providing traini
ng to develop a coordinated 
program aimed at meeting the most urgent need
s and ensuring that this
 is done in the most 
efficient fashion.  Finally, civi
l service salaries were incr
eased by 30 percent in 2004, in 
consultation with the IMF, while an additional 
15 percent increase is 
under consideration.  
Finally, significant headway has been made in 
implementing the ICF recommendations related to 
public enterprise management
. To date, international audit firms have been hired on a 
competitive basis to do financial audits of 
APN, TELECO, and EDH.  The selection of an 
international firm to undertake 
financial and administrative aud
its and a technical review of 
CAMEP is close to completion. Progress made with
in the telecom sector 
has proven particularly 
noteworthy. Following a comprehensive accoun
ting rehabilitation and major management 
reorganization of TELECO, the Government recently
 concluded a sector-wide review and is in 
the process of finalizing a comprehensive action 
plan aimed at improving sector performance. A 
newly licensed mobile private operator ha
s begun operations and has negotiated an IFC 
investment which was recently presented to the 
Board. As regards the electricity sector, the 
Government, EDH, and donor community signed 
a Memorandum of Understanding in October 
2005, committing the MOU commits all parties to 
a series of measures to strengthen the 
governance and increase the efficiency and transparency
 of investments in the electricity sector.   
The IDA-financed US$ 6.0 Electricity Loss Reduction 
Project, which is expected to be presented 
to the Board in first quarter FY’07, will prov
ide pivotal support to improve the quality of 
electricity services in Port-au-Prince and to st
rengthen the financial and operational performance 
of EDH.  
2.
 
Objectives 
The objective of the Second Economic Governan
ce Technical Assistance Grant (EGTAG II) is 
to further assist the Government in strengthening 
its institutional capacity
 in the areas of public 
sector resource management and improved responsiv
eness to citizen needs and demands.  It is 
designed to advance changes be
gun with the EGRO, the LICUS Trust Fund grant and EGTAG I 
to overcome the weaknesses undermining Haiti’s pl
anning and implementation of its current and 
Page  4
investment budget, the efficacy of  donor assistance, 
and public trust in public sector institutions.  
The EGTAG II’s development objectives are to support additional activities required to meet the 
basic goals of EGTAG I and to mo
ve beyond them in order to: (i) 
increase the fluid and effective 
operation of the budgetary, control and procurem
ent systems; (ii) build a central human 
resources unit, develop and improve procedural 
rules and organizational capacity to implement 
them, and advance other elements of the plan 
to rationalize the distri
bution, upgrade the quality, 
and improve the incentives of public sector empl
oyees; (iii) work with the MEF and one or two 
sector ministries to create, on an experimental ba
sis,  a capacity for strate
gic monitoring of sector 
policies and service delivery; and (iv) improve the effectiveness and sustainability of the 
Government’s anti-corruption, transparency
 and public participation programs.   
3.
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Consistency with the Transitional Support Strategy: 
Under IDA’s Transitional Support 
Strategy
1
 (TSS) discussed by the Board in Janua
ry 2005, during FY 2005 and 2006 IDA would 
use a mix of lending operations, 
trust fund grants, and non-lend
ing services to support the 
transition to economic and social r
ecovery, reduce the potential of a 
return to conflict, and lay the 
groundwork for the Bank’s longer-term objective 
in Haiti: inclusive growth and poverty 
reduction through local development, institutio
nal strengthening and support for productive 
sectors.  This strategy’s two areas of tactical
 emphasis are delivering ho
pe and quick wins, and 
restoring credibility in institutions.  The proposed
 project coincides explicitly with this second 
area, in its focus on both strengthening econo
mic governance and promoting inclusion and 
consensus on development priorities.  It will
 be an important input for quick wins too 
Complementarity with other Bank Activities:  
The proposed operation is 
part of a package of 
assistance the Bank is providing to Haiti in 
the area of economic governance. The EGRO 
contained conditionality on economic governance reforms. The LICUS Trust Fund provided   
immediate technical and financ
ial support for the needed inst
itutional strengthening, which   
EGTAG I is continuing. However, given their ti
meframes, both were limited in the amount of 
change they could promote. EG
TAG II is thus intended to build
 on their progress, and support 
Haiti in moving toward more sustainable patterns
 of good economic governance. It will also help 
obtain the desired returns fr
om other IDA operations.   
Complementarity with Other Donor Activities:  
The preparation of this
 operation has been done 
in close collaboration with other donor agencies
 active in the area of economic governance (IDB, 
USAID, CIDA, AECI, EU, IMF and the French 
Cooperation Agency).  All work on economic 
governance is also complementary to the wide
r range of donor activi
ties (outside economic 
governance per se) as improved public resource management is a 
sine qua non
 for effective 
project performance. An economic
 governance group led by the G
overnment is now operating in 
Haiti to help coordinate donor work and to
 ensure it meets Haitian priorities.   
Lessons from Past Assistance
:  As the 2002 OED review of Ba
nk assistance to Haiti noted,
2
 a 
predominant reason for the low success rate of Bank supported interventions had been assuming 
the problems were only technical and financial rather than institutional and political. A 
secondary problem had been the differences in 
priorities between the government and the Bank 
(especially as regards privatizatio
n and civil service reform). A th
ird was the conti
nuous political 
                                                
 
1
 Transitional Support Strategy fo
r the Republic of Haiti, Report
 No. 30541, December 10, 2004. 
2
 World Bank, Operations Evaluation Department, Haiti Country Assistance Evaluation, Report No. 23637, 
February 12, 2002. 
Page  5
turmoil and governance problems in Haiti, and a 
fourth was the offer from all donors of a level 
of assistance that overwhelmed 
the country’s absorptive capaci
ty.  Finally, discontinuities in 
Bank staffing and the poor choice of
 some local staff were identi
fied as contributing to a low 
success rate of Bank supported interventions. Other donors
3
 remarked on similar obstacles to 
their interventions, highlighting doubts about po
litical commitment to reform, institutional 
weaknesses, and limited absorpti
ve capacities. Similar lessons 
emerge from the LICUS Task 
Force report
4
  which concluded that development assist
ance to countries with weak policies, 
institutions, and governance had been largely 
ineffective, and recommended that continued 
engagement focus on a mix of knowledge and 
grant financing to support improvements in 
policies, institutions, governance and basic service provision. The TSS’ emphases on “restoring 
credibility in institutions” and strengthening 
economic governance responds to these lessons, as 
does the proposed EGTAG II.   
4.
 
Description 
The project includes five main components
 and nine subcomponents as follows:  
Component 1
 --
 
Financial Resource Management:
  This component aims at the development 
of a capacity to produce and ex
ecute a budget, track 
its implementation, and reduce irregular 
uses and expenditures. As the 2003 Budget 
Law and the 2004 Procurement Decree’s full 
implementation will necessarily be gradual, 
EGTAG II will continue to support the process 
begun earlier. The goal here is provide additional 
support to improve or possibly fine tune the 
initial design in the following three basic elements.  
 x
 
Subcomponent 1.1 - Budgeting:
  EGTAG II will continue EGTAG I’s focus on design and 
implementation of basic budgetary procedures 
and functions establis
hed by the new Organic 
Law, while the IDB and USAID finance the 
further development of the Government’s 
information management system and the stre
ngthening of budgetary capacity within key 
sector ministries. The proposed project’s goa
l is to move the process beyond EGTAG I’s 
objective of incorporating all central 
government expenditures (including donor 
contributions)
5
 in the official budget toward a more 
program-oriented, results-linked format.  
EGTAG II will finance an evaluation of the initi
al results of the new procedures, identify 
areas for their modification or
 strengthening, and support tec
hnical assistance, training and 
some equipment purchases.   
 x
 
Subcomponent 1.2 – External Control:  
The LICUS grant funding for the 
Cour Supérieure 
des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif 
(CSCCA) supported class-room and on-the-job 
training of auditors in their new ex-post c
ontrol function and the drafting of an updated 
Organic Law.  Under EGTAG I, the CSCCA’s 
initial experience with ex-post auditing is 
being evaluated, and further personnel, equipm
ent, budgetary, and training needs identified, 
resulting in a plan for upgrading the agency’s
 performance over the following two to three 
years. EGTAG II will support implementation of a
nd further adjustments to this plan.  Work 
                                                
 
3
 
United States Government Accountability Office, GAO (2000
), “Foreign Assistance:  Any Further Aid to Haitian  
Justice System Should be Linked to Performan
ce-Related Conditions.” (GA0-01-24), October 2000.
   
4
 World Bank Group Work in Low-Income Countries Under Stress:  A Task Force Report, September, 2002. 
5
 EGTAG I is still working on this objective.  The most 
recent budget (2005-2006) programmed nearly all revenues 
generated by the tax and customs agencies, but only a part 
of donor contributions and of the additional fees and user 
charges collected by other public agencies.   
Page  6
will be coordinated with assistance provided by the IDB in the area of ex-post internal 
control, the only other major 
donor assistance in this area
.   
 x
 
Subcomponent 1.3 - Procurement:  
EGTAG II will continue the support of the newly 
created Commission Nationale des 
Marchés Publics (CNMP) for 
its transformation into the 
permanent body mandated by law, via strengtheni
ng of its own capacity and the development 
of training programs for sector pr
ocurement staff in standardized
 procurement procedures.  It 
will also assess and build on progress made in the initial development of standardized 
bidding documents, publication of information on 
bids and contracts, and the education of 
potential bidders and the general public on pr
ocurement processes. All IDA operations have 
been closely coordinated with related IDB technical
 assistance to key sector ministries in the 
development of their own procurement staff a
nd offices. As with other elements of this 
component, this is an incremental process in
 which new procedures will be tested and 
modified according to preliminary results.
     
Component 2 -- Human Resource Development: 
IDA emphasis has been placed on supporting 
the development of a central Human Resource Un
it, the elaboration of norms and tools to 
facilitate its work, and the gradual application 
of merit-based selection and career management 
throughout the public sector. U
nder EGTAG I, assistance wa
s limited to upgrading training 
facilities and supporting for planning the develo
pment of a human resour
ce system.  EGTAG II 
will advance these processes through the creation of organizational structures, the development 
of basic human resource management tools, and the 
training of central and 
sector staff in their 
uses. It will also finance studies
 related to the improvement of 
the public administration’s legal 
framework.   
 x
 
Subcomponent 2.1. – 
Strengthening of Civil Service No
rms and Regulations: The two new 
decree-laws on the civil service and central ad
ministration organization will be evaluated and 
technical assistance provided fo
r their implementation or possi
ble modification.  In addition, 
this subcomponent will support 
developing procedures for mer
it selection and evaluation of 
employee performance, as well as advances 
in job classification 
and rationalization of 
salaries as a means of estab
lishing performance incentives.  
 x
 
Subcomponent 2.2. – Improving Human Resource Management Information:
 This will 
provide support to the Prime Minister’s Human 
Resources Office in building its capacity to 
monitor human resource needs, policy, and pr
ograms; to develop ties with and strengthen 
sector human resource departments, and to he
lp other agencies develop plans for meeting 
their current and future personnel requirements.
 EGTAG I’s initial suppo
rt will be expanded 
to finance the creation of a single public employ
ees’ data base and a uniform set of personnel 
records.
 
 x
 
Subcomponent 2.3 – Building Organizational Capacity for Human Resource 
Management and Training. 
This will assist the Human Resource Unit and other agencies to 
design and spearhead a longer-term civil serv
ice reform.  Technical assistance will be 
provided to help the Unit devel
op a staged plan for putting the new requirements into effect 
and for creating mechanisms to oversee their implementation. It also will improve the Unit’s 
ability to plan training, and the 
capacity of public sector traini
ng institutions to deliver the 
training needed. Course design and delivery co
sts will be financed under other components 
of this Project or by other donors
.  
Page  7
Component 3 – Development of 
MEF (Office of Economic Studi
es) Capacity for Strategic 
Monitoring of Sector Policy 
via Sector Ministries’ Tracki
ng of Service Delivery.   
The 
program will be implemented through MEF’s Office 
of Economic Studies and represents a first 
step toward taking budgetary formulation and tr
acking beyond a financial focus to an emphasis 
on monitoring outcomes.  It will be especially im
portant as regards the ME
F’s ability to collect 
information for the PRSP, MDGs, and HIPC pr
ograms and to shape budgetary allocations to 
their requirements.   
 x
 
Subcomponent 3.1 –
 
Support to the MEF Office of Ec
onomic Studies in developing 
a capacity to link recurrent and investme
nt budgets to higher order government 
priorities:  
The MEF has requested this assistance in connection with the service 
monitoring exercise.  Aside from the serv
ice tracking experiments with individual 
ministries and programs, technica
l assistance will be provided 
to the office in its initial 
development of a systematic approach to lin
king policy priorities
, budgeting, and results 
tracking.   
 x
 
Subcomponent 3.2 
– 
Selection of key agencies for the 
pilot exercise and evaluation of 
their existing ability to track service delivery
. As this is a pilot program, it will be 
developed incrementally, and agencies will be 
selected based on their 
centrality to other 
IDA operations and Government priorities.  As
 part of the selection process and as an 
input to further work,  a thorough diagnosis
 of candidate agenci
es’ current practices, 
needs, and capabilities in mon
itoring service delivery will be 
conducted.  It is anticipated 
that one or two agencies will be targeted, 
with likely candidates being Health, Education 
(a particular priority of the new Government
) or Public Works.  Selection and further 
work will be closely coordinated with IDA sector operations. 
 x
 
Subcomponent 3.3
 – 
Technical and material assistance to the selected agencies in 
developing procedures for tracking s
ervice delivery, whether done by direct 
employees or through private providers
.  Procedures will necessarily be very simple 
and should focus on information already cap
tured or easily provided by the service 
deliverers.  Within each agency, the applicat
ion will also be select
ive and incremental, 
focusing on key programs and outputs.  MEF’
s Office of Economic Studies will oversee 
the exercise which will be linked to the deve
lopment of its own oversight capabilities. 
Component 4 
–
 Anti-corruption and Civil Society Engagement:
 the LICUS grant and 
EGTAG I supported  the establishment of the 
Unité de Lutte Contre la Corruption
 (ULCC) and  
civil society monitoring of economic governan
ce reforms, complemented by USAID and IDB 
projects. EGTAG II will help develop the UL
CC’s programming capacity, its skills and 
techniques for determining institutional vulnerabili
ties (corruption diagnostic
s) and the design of 
their remedies, and provide  assistance in draf
ting and supervising implementation of improved 
laws (notably, a freedom of information law)
. Also, based on findings of an EGTAG I-funded 
evaluation of the civil society monitoring program
s, it will provide assist
ance to improve their 
performance.  
Component 5 – Communication, Donor C
oordination, and Project Management: 
Although 
the MEF is the primary counterpart
, EGTAG II, like EGTAG I, works 
with a variety of agencies.  
It will be implemented under the project manage
ment mechanism used by EGTAG I, a Project 
Coordinating Unit (PCU) responsible for the implementation of IDA and IDB supported 
economic governance assistance programs and for 
coordinating with other donors working on 
Page  8
related activities (e.g. USAID).  Toward the la
tter end, the PCU will 
hold periodic meetings 
(through the ICF’s 
Table Sectorielle 
and related mechanisms) and manage a data base to track 
activities.  The PCU has 
an overall coordinator 
(currently paid by the 
IDB) and budgetary and 
procurement staff.  Each implementing agency
 (including the three MEF units – Budget, the 
ULCC, and the civil society office)
 has designated a coordinator or 
liaison officer to work with 
the PCU in ensuring progress in its own program. 
 Some EGTAG II funds have been set aside to 
provide technical and material 
assistance to the PCU. In add
ition, under EGTAG II, IDA will 
continue to provide support 
for communications activities on 
the overall economic governance 
reforms.  This includes implementing a co
mmunications strategy and promoting two-way 
communications between the government and stake
holders to build consensus on the programs, 
increase understanding of their 
contents and objectives, and pr
omote input from stakeholders. 
Supporting efforts to enhance public understanding 
and support for reforms will be critical to 
ensure their sustainability.
 
Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
2 
 Total 
2 
5.
 
Implementation 
A project coordination unit (P
CU) already exists in the MEF to oversee the EGTAG I 
implementation (which is still underway) as well as
 the IDB project.  The 
same unit will be used 
for EGTAG II.  As day-to-day activities for 
each component or subcomponent in EGTAG II and 
other operations are  handled by 
the different government agencies
, the major responsibilities of 
the PCU are to: (i) ensure that the implementati
on of the various compone
nts is on track; (ii) 
provide an overall vision and keep implementati
on in line with it; (iii); ensure compliance with 
GoH and donor procurement and financial manageme
nt regulations; and (iv) help implement the 
MEF-specific component (the budgetary process). 
 The PCU already has a satisfactory project 
implementation manual (approved under EGTAG I) whic
h it will continue to follow for meeting 
these responsibilities.  This will help guarantee 
that the project is implemented per the original 
agreements and understandings with the GoH.  
EGTAG II will benefit from agency experien
ce under the EGRO, the LICUS grant and the 
EGTAG I in providing all of the pa
rticipating agencies with a ba
sic understanding of the project 
cycle and IDA procedures.  Under 
EGTAG I, a local consultant has been hired with supervision 
funds to assist the PCU in this job, an arra
ngement which may be continued, depending on need, 
under EGTAG II. A coordinating body including re
presentatives from each of the executing 
agencies (including the three in the MEF) and th
e overall coordinator will hold regular meetings 
to ensure overall inter-agency
 communication and coordination. E
ither in conjunction with this 
group, or separately, the PCU will hold periodic
 meetings with the donors financing related 
activities to ensure adequate coordination of th
eir assistance.  As needed, EGTAG II may also 
finance TA for the PCU, to deal with issues crossing agency borders.   
6.
 
Sustainability 
Government commitment to and ownership of
 the project are strong as indicated by its 
endorsement of the ICF process which provided th
e basis for the activities
 included.  The ICF 
was also instrumental in unifyi
ng donor views on the objectives 
and activities requiring support, 
and in encouraging an unusually high level of 
donor coordination in the preparation of their 
Page  9
individual operations. The Go
H’s insistence on creating mechanisms to broaden citizen 
understanding of the reform process and to involve
 civil society in the 
monitoring of advances 
will also be critical in maintaining the external
 reform constituency and so helping the program 
sustain its impetus despite the ch
ange in administrations.  As 
these three factors – government 
commitment, consistency across donor programs,
 and citizen demand – are among the most 
important determinants of sustainability, 
the operation enjoys decided advantages.  
It is also important to note that
 the operation is not an isolated in
tervention, but rather is part of a 
longer-term IDA package and of 
a coordinated set of activities 
financed by other donors.  It 
builds on activities already under way and, if suc
cessful, will be followed by additional technical 
assistance.  Hence its sustainability must be measur
ed within this context.  This is an incremental 
process in which   EGTAG II and 
the larger program aim to support 
the GoH in the attainment of 
the goals it has set out, and to accompanying 
it as it further develops its own vision. 
7.
 
Lessons Learned from Past Op
erations in the Country/Sector 
Aside from the general lessons applicable to al
l LICUS countries, recent
 experience in Haiti 
indicates three important lessons:  (i) the need 
to work incrementally; (ii) the importance of 
constant communication and coordination among 
and within governmental agencies and among 
donors; and (iii) the key role pl
ayed by the counterpart
 agency and its PCU 
in effecting this 
coordinating function. Also, while 
the previous governments showed
 a capacity to draft and pass 
new laws, their implementation ha
s lagged. Therefore, before 
supporting the adoption of new 
legislation or systems, it appear
s important, and consistent with 
the ICF program, to assist the 
authorities in implementing what has already 
been enacted. The new budget law, procurement 
decree, and the decree further defining the CS
CCA’s operations include many worthwhile 
innovations, and it will be important to ensure
 they are implemented in full before being 
significantly modified or taken 
to the (still nonfunctional) departmental governments.  As a 
result, EGTAG II continues the focus on assisting 
the new Government in putting into effect and 
testing the innovations recently introduced. It has 
also been apparent th
at despite the recent 
greater emphasis on donor coordination, more atten
tion is needed to enhance this further. This 
has been a main focus in the preparation of EG
TAG II and motivates the de
cision to sustain the 
project management arrangements of EGTAG I.  
It also underlies the continued emphasis on 
working through the 
Table Sectorielle
 or some similar mechanism, a strategy already endorsed 
by President-elect René Preval.  
 
8.
 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed pr
oject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice th
e final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  10
 
9.
 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
Financial Management Assessment 
Procurement Capacity Assessment 
QAT Environmental and Social Comments on th
e PCN, PAD and associated Integrated  
   Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) 
Country Procurement Assessment Report, September 30, 1999 
La Fonction Publique: Le Renforcement des Capacités – Analyses et Propositions d’Actions
, De 
   Weerd, June 1999 
Transitional Support St
rategy, December 10, 2004 
Haiti Country Assistance Evaluation, Operations 
and Evaluation Department, February 12, 2002 
An End to the Beginning: Resolving the “Intermi
nable” Crisis and Meeting the Challenge of  
   Governance in Post-Duvalierist 
Haiti, Ira Lowenthal, June 2, 2002 
Economic Governance – Findings and Analysis, 
Ladouceur, 
November 2003 
Decentralisation: Cour Supérieure
 des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif, Mission de la  
   Banque Mondiale sur la Gouvernance Economique
, Laurence Mézin, October 13-18, 2003 
Haiti Interim Cooperation Framework – Economic G
overnance Strategic Group Sectoral Report,  
   May 26, 2004 
10.
 
Contact point 
Contact: Linn A. Hammergren 
Title: Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-2975 
Fax:  
Email: lhammergren@worldbank.org 
 
11.
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
