                                Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00002074



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H2370)



                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.4 MILLION
                       (US$ 2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                   FOR A

  SECOND ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                              December 30 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Haiti Country Management Unit
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2011)

               Currency Unit = Haitian Gourde
                  US$ 1.00 = 40.35 [HTG]

                   October 1 – September 30



AECI        Agencia Española de Cooperación Internacional (Spanish
            International Cooperation Agency)
BPM         Bureau du Premier Ministre (Prime Minister‟s Office)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CEFOPAFOP   Centre d‟Education et de Perfectionnement des Agents de la
            Fonction Publique (Training Center for Public Administration)
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency

CNMP        Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics (National Public
            Procurement Commission)

CSC/CA      Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif
            (Supreme Audit Institution)

CY          Calendar Year
DEE         Direction des Etudes Economiques (Directorate of Economic
            Studies)
DGB         Direction Générale du Budget (General Budget Directorate)
DGT         Direction Générale du Trésor (General Directorate of the
            Treasury)
DSNCRP      Document de Stratégie Nationale pour la Croissance et pour la
            Réduction de la Pauvreté (Growth and Poverty Reduction
            Strategy Paper)
EGRO        Economic Governance Reform Operation
EGTAG       Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant
EU          European Union
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOH         Government of Haiti
ICF         Interim Cooperation Framework
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IADB`       Inter-American Development Bank
IFI         International Financial Institutions
IFR         Interim Financial Report
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IGF         Inspection Générale des Finances(General Finance Inspectorate)
ISR         Implementation Status Report
LICUS       Low Income Countries Under Stress
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF        Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPCE       Ministère de la Planification et de la Coopération Externe
           (Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation)
OMRH       Office de Management et des Ressources Humaines
           (Management and Human Resource Office)
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PDO        Project Development Objective
PEFA       Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PEMFAR     Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability
           Review
PRUII      Projet de Reconstruction d‟Urgence des Infrastructures et des
           Institutions (Infrastructure and Institutional Emergency Recovery
           Project)
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
SYGADE     Système d‟Informatisation des Dépenses (Expenditure
           Information System)
TOR        Terms of Reference
TTL        Task Team Leader
UCP        Unité de Coopération Projet (UCP)
ULCC       Unité de Lutte contre la Corruption (Anti-Corruption Unit)
USAID      United States Agency for International Development



               Vice President: Pamela Cox
             Country Director: Alexandre Abrantes
              Sector Manager: Arturo Herrera Gutierrez
         Project Team Leader: Alexandre Arrobbio
            ICR Team Leader: Alexandre Arrobbio
         ICR Primary Author: Hélène Torresan
                                         HAITI
                     Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant II



                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 20
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 26
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 29
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 32
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 33
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 35
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 36
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
 MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           HT Economic
Country:                Haiti                     Project Name:
                                                                           Governance TAG II
Project ID:             P095371                   L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-H2370
ICR Date:               12/30/2011                ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                           THE REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                       Borrower:
                                                                           HAITI
Original Total
                        XDR 1.40M                 Disbursed Amount:        XDR 0.42M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 1.40M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Unit¿ de Coordination du Projet (UCP) at the Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
      Process             Date               Process          Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         02/27/2006     Effectiveness:             08/16/2007        08/16/2007
Appraisal:              04/17/2006     Restructuring(s):                            10/30/2009
Approval:               06/20/2006     Mid-term Review:           10/01/2010        05/19/2010
                                       Closing:                   06/30/2009        06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      High
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                  Ratings            Borrower                        Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                            Government:                   Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately           Implementing                  Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory       Agency/Agencies:              Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately           Overall Borrower              Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory       Performance:                  Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation            Indicators      QAG Assessments (if                 Rating
      Performance                                           any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of Supervision
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                     (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                      Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                 25                     25
Law reform                                                              13                     13
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                    25                     25
Participation and civic engagement                                      13                     13
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement                24                     24

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                              Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Alexandre V. Abrantes                   Caroline D. Anstey
Sector Manager:            Arturo Herrera Gutierrez                Ronald E. Myers
Project Team Leader:       Alexandre Arrobbio                      Linn A. Hammergren
ICR Team Leader:           Alexandre Arrobbio
ICR Primary Author:        Helene Torresan


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Second Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant (EGTAG II)
was to further assist the Government in strengthening its institutional capacity in the areas of
public sector resource management and achieving improved responsiveness to citizen needs
and demands. It was designed to advance changes begun with the EGRO, the LICUS Trust
Fund grant, and EGTAG I to overcome the weaknesses undermining the planning and
implementation of Haiti's current and investment budget; the efficacy of donor assistance,
and public trust in public sector institutions. Specifically, EGTAG II's development
objectives were to support additional activities required to meet the basic goals of EGTAG I
and to move beyond them. This was expected to: (i) improve operation of the budgetary,
control and procurement systems; (ii) build a central human resources unit, and within that to
develop and improve procedural rules and organizational capacity to implement them; (iii)
advance other elements of the plan to modernize the distribution, upgrade the quality, and
improve the incentives of public sector employees; (iv) work with the MEF and one or two
sector ministries to create, on an experimental basis, capacity for strategic monitoring of
sector policies and service delivery; and (v) improve the effectiveness and sustainability of
the Government's anti-corruption, transparency and public participation programs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was revised in October 2009, in order to (i) realign the project with the Bank
strategy for governance reform in Haiti, (ii) narrow the project scope and (iii) incorporate
findings of recent analytical work. The revised development objective of the Project was to
assist the Recipient in strengthening its institutional capacity in the area of: (a) budget
formulation and execution; and (b) budget monitoring and control.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                                Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                 documents)                       Target Years
                  PEFA indicator 6: comprehensiveness of
Indicator 1 :
                  information included in budget documentation
                                                               C+:
                                                                              Not achieved
                                                               Improvement
                  C: recent budget                                            C: The budget
Value                                                          in information
                  documentation fulfills 3-4                                  documents meet
quantitative or                                                benchmarks
                  of the 9 information                                        three out of the nine
Qualitative)                                                   fulfilled by
                  benchmarks                                                  information
                                                               budget
                                                                              benchmarks.
                                                               documentation
Date achieved     10/01/2007                                   06/30/2011     11/08/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Source: 2011 assessment of PEFA indicators by the Bank team
achievement)
                  PEFA indicator 19(i): use of competition in
Indicator 2 :     award of contracts (% of public contracts
                  awarded on a competitive basis)
                                                                C: Available
                                                                data shows that
                                                                less than 50% Not achieved
                                                                of contracts    D:Insufficient data
Value
                                                                above the       exists to assess the
quantitative or   Not rated
                                                                threshold are method used to
Qualitative)
                                                                awarded on an award public
                                                                open            contracts
                                                                competitive
                                                                basis, but the
                                                                    data may not
                                                                    be accurate.
Date achieved     10/01/2007                                        06/30/2011     11/08/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Source: 2011 assessment of PEFA indicators by the Bank team
achievement)
                  PEFA indicator 26(ii): timeliness of submission
Indicator 3 :
                  of audit reports to legislature
                                                                   C : Audit
                                                                   reports are
                                                                   submitted to
                                                                   the legislature
                  D+: Audit reports are                            within 12
                  submitted to Parliament                          months of the
Value             beyond the 12-month                              end of
quantitative or   period after the                                 the period       Not rated
Qualitative)      end of the fiscal period                         covered (for
                  under                                            audit
                  review.                                          of financial
                                                                   statements
                                                                   from
                                                                   their receipt by
                                                                   the auditors).
Date achieved     10/01/2007                                       06/30/2011       06/30/2011
                  This indicator cannot be rated: the 08/09 audit report could not be transmitted to
Comments
                  Parliament with the budget, as is the norm, since the FY10-11 budget was adopted
(incl. %
                  by decree due to the earthquake. Source: assessment of PEFA indicators by the
achievement)
                  Bank team.
                  Increased understanding of corruption
Indicator 4 :     practices, as measured by studies'
                  dissemination seminars exit surveys.
Value
                                                                    Opinion        Not achieved: No
quantitative or   No available survey data
                                                                    surveys        survey undertaken
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2009                                        06/30/2011     06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Source: Bank's assessment
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                  Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                    approval                       Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                   documents)                       Target Years
                  Reports prepared by DGB on debt levels (debt
Indicator 1 :     stock) in order to inform the preparation of the
                  annual budget (between 2009 and 2011)
Value             No regular reporting on                          At least one  Last debt data
(quantitative   debt levels                                   report per      published on the
or Qualitative)                                               Haitian         MEF website dated
                                                              fiscal year     November 2010.
                                                              (between 2009   Reports are
                                                              and             produced manually
                                                              2011)           by the Debt
                                                                              Directorate.
Date achieved   01/01/2008                                    06/30/2011      11/08/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Source: Bank team assessment and MEF's website
achievement)
                Number of Ministries using the human
Indicator 2 :
                resource's registry
                                                              9 out of 17     The central HR
                                                              Ministries at   registry exists but is
Value
                                                              least           not operational.
(quantitative   0.00
                                                              use the human   Ministries are not
or Qualitative)
                                                              resource        able to make use of
                                                              registry        it.
Date achieved   07/08/2008                                    06/30/2011      06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Source: Bank's assessment
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Public Finance Reform Agenda
                                                                             Existence of a joint
                                                                             government-IFI
                                                                             matrix of
                                                              Reform         Public Finance
Value
                No Finance Reform                             Agenda in      reforms.
(quantitative
                Agenda                                        place for      Institutional
or Qualitative)
                                                              Public Finance diagnosis and
                                                                             perspective of
                                                                             reform of the
                                                                             MEF drafted.
Date achieved   12/10/2009                                    06/30/2011     06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Source: Bank's assessment
achievement)
                Organic Law on the Organization of the CSC/
Indicator 4 :
                CA
                                                                            Law exists in draft
Value           Current Legal Framework                       New Law sent
                                                                            form but has not
(quantitative   for the CSC/CA is                             to Parliament
                                                                            been sent to
or Qualitative) incomplete                                    for Approval.
                                                                            Parliament.
Date achieved   12/10/2009                                    06/30/2011    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Source: Bank's assessment
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   2 studies on corruption in 2 key sectors
                 published by ULCC
                                                                               One study
Value
                No studies on corruption in                    2 studies       completed at the end
(quantitative
                these sectors                                  published       of June 2011, not yet
or Qualitative)
                                                                               published
Date achieved    12/10/2009                                    06/30/2011      06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %         Source: Bank's assessment
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
 1      09/29/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
 2      12/27/2006      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
 3      06/19/2007         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     0.00
 4      12/19/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
 5      06/23/2008     Moderately Unsatisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.00
 6      12/11/2008      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.30
 7      06/24/2009      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               0.30
 8      07/29/2009      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               0.30
 9      12/20/2009      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               0.47
 10     04/13/2010      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               0.47
 11     11/23/2010         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     0.47
 12     07/05/2011         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     0.73


H. Restructuring (if any)

                             ISR Ratings at   Amount
                    Board
 Restructuring               Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
                   Approved
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring    Key Changes Made
                  PDO Change DO       IP in USD millions
   10/30/2009         Y        MS     MS          0.30


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                               Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                    Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                            Unsatisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                       Unsatisfactory
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. At the time of the project appraisal (mid-2006), Haiti was one of the most
disadvantaged countries in the world and the poorest country in the Western
hemisphere. It was also one of the most unequal, with a Gini coefficient of 0.65. The
country lagged in social indicators, ranking 153 out of 172 in the Human Development
Index at the time of the project‟s appraisal.

2. After a long period of political instability, constitutional order was restored in
2006. Haiti‟s history has been marked by chronic political instability. Since the mid-20th
century, the country has endured a 30-year dictatorship characterized by corruption,
repression and the pillage of wealth. This was followed by a series of short-lived
governments, also plagued by corruption; and the election, overthrow, reinstatement and
ultimate resignation in February 2004 of President Jean Bertrand Aristide. A Transitional
Government was established in 2004 with a mandate to create the conditions necessary to
hold democratic elections and to hand over power to a new government in early 2006.
Elections were organized in February 2006. Following the election and the instatement of
a new National Assembly, Mr René Preval took office in May 2006.

3. In the spring of 2004, the Transition Government, in collaboration with the
donor community, prepared an Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF), in order to
guide future reforms, with a specific focus on economic governance. The ICF aimed
to identify the country‟s priority development interventions and related funding within a
donor coordinated framework. It was also the foundation upon which the medium-term
National Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (DSNCRP, 2008-2010) would be
prepared. The ICF comprised four pillars: (i) strengthening political governance and
promoting national dialogue; (ii) strengthening economic governance and contributing to
institutional development; (iii) promoting economic recovery; and (iv) improving access
to basic services. At the time of EGTAG2‟s project appraisal in mid-2006, newly elected
President Preval was committed to continuing the ICF focus on economic governance as
a key priority.

4. Since 2004, the Transition Government, with the support of the donor
community has made significant advances in economic governance reforms. In an
effort to fight corruption; build links with civil society; and increase the transparency and
efficiency of public resources, the government launched an economic governance reform
program. The Government created an Anti-corruption Unit and established mechanisms
for civil society monitoring. Following the adoption of a new Organic Budget Law in
2004, it strengthened budget preparation processes and increased the transparency of
budget information through the dissemination of key budgetary data. The Government
enhanced the budgetary oversight of the Supreme Audit Institution and adopted a new
Procurement Decree that set up a permanent procurement commission with a revised
mandate. It also improved the transparency of procurement processes. Finally, the



                                             1
Government started a review of human resource policy, as a first step toward
modernizing Human Resources Management.

5. In line with the Government’s priorities, the 2004 Bank Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS) included a specific focus on institutional strengthening. The long-term
strategy for Bank support in Haiti, as articulated in the TSS was “inclusive growth and
poverty reduction through local development, institutional strengthening and support of
productive sectors?, with an emphasis on restoring the credibility of institutions.
EGTAG2 contributed to institutional strengthening by concentrating on economic
governance. The assumption was that successful growth, poverty, emergency relief and
recovery programs required effective and transparent public resources management. The
operation also addressed the need to foment broader participation in governance reforms
and support thereof. Civil society monitoring mechanisms; access to information; and
communication on reforms and programs enabled this.

6. EGTAG2 was part of a broader program of institutional strengthening in
Haiti. Since 2004, IDA support for economic management and for a governance reform
program has included: (i) a total of US$96.5 million of development policy loans under
the three Economic Governance Reform Operations (EGROs, P089873, P100564,
P117944); and (ii) the LICUS Trust Fund Grant (TF053366), approved in 2004 and
amounting to US$6 million, of which US$1.5 million supported economic governance
reforms, and two Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grants (EGTAG 1,
P093936 and EGTAG2, P095371) amounting to US$4 million, to underpin the reforms
of the development policy operations. These grants complemented other donors‟ support
for Haiti in the area of economic governance (including IADB, USAID, CIDA, AECI,
EU and IMF)

7. EGTAG2 was designed to continue the work started with EGTAG1, with
greater attention to ICF priorities which were not covered by the former operation.
The Bank technical assistance took the form of two back-to-back US$2.0 million grants -
EGTAG 1 (P093936) and EGTAG2 (P095371) - which were presented to the Board
within one year of each other.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8. The original objective of EGTAG2 was to assist the Government in
strengthening its institutional capacity in the area of public sector resource
management and achieving improved responsiveness to its citizens’ needs and
demands. It was designed to advance changes begun with the EGROs (P089873,
P100564, P117944), the LICUS Trust Fund grant (TF053366) and EGTAG1 (P093936)
It was also intended to (i) overcome the weaknesses undermining Haiti's planning and
implementation of its current and investment budget and (ii) improve the efficacy of
donor assistance, and public trust in public sector institutions. Specifically, EGTAG2's
development objectives were to: support additional activities required to meet the basic
goals of EGTAG1 and to move beyond them in order to: (i) improve operation of the
budgetary, control and procurement systems; (ii) build a central human resources unit,



                                           2
and within that to develop and improve procedural rules and organizational capacity to
implement them; and (iii) advance other elements of the plan to modernize the
distribution, upgrade the quality, and improve the incentives for public sector employees;
(iv) work with the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and one or two sector
ministries to create, on an experimental basis, capacity for strategic monitoring of sector
policies and service delivery; and (v) to improve the effectiveness and sustainability of
the Government's anti-corruption, transparency and public participation programs.

9. The indicators defined to measure progress with the project development
objective were defined as follows:
 Percentage of non-salary current public expenditures going through „comptes
   courants‟ (discretionary ministerial accounts).
 Inclusion of external financing (disbursements and expenditures) in the national
   budget.
 Number of ministries developing budgets in program and results format.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority), Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

10. In 2009, the project was restructured and the PDO was modified. The revised
PDO was to assist the Republic of Haiti in strengthening its institutional capacity in the
areas of: (a) budget formulation and execution, and (b) budget monitoring and control.

11. The outcome indicators to measure progress with the revised development
objectives were defined as follows:
    PEFA indicator 6: comprehensiveness of information included in budget
     documentation (Baseline: C and Target: C+)
    PEFA indicator 19(i): use of competition in award of contracts (Baseline: Not rated,
     Target: C)
    PEFA indicator 26(ii): timeliness of submission of audit reports to legislature
     (Baseline: D+, Target: C)
    Increased understanding of corruption practices, as measured by exit surveys at
     studies' dissemination seminars. (Baseline: No Current Survey Data, Target:
     Opinion Surveys).

12. The revision of the PDO and associated indicators aimed to:

    Realign the project with the priorities of the May 2009 Country Assistance
     Strategy (CAS) and those of the New Government. The scope of the project needed
     to be realigned with the priorities expressed in the National Growth and Poverty
     Reduction Strategy Paper (DSNCRP) and in the CAS FY09-12 (Report No 48284
     HT). The CAS took note of the recent improvements achieved by the Government
     since 2006. It also adapted the World Bank‟s program to the country's 2007
     National Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The CAS sought to
     respond to a series of important shocks faced in 2008 that led to a loss equivalent to
     15 percent of the GDP and further weakened the Government capacity. The CAS


                                            3
     was structured into three pillars: (i) promoting growth and local development; (ii)
     investing in human capital and (iii) reducing vulnerability to disasters, with a cross-
     cutting emphasis on economic governance reforms. The CAS stressed that Bank
     interventions would be determined by government priorities and would address
     areas where Bank projects have already achieved progress, where it has a
     comparative advantage and where Bank resources can fill gaps or leverage
     instruments by other donors or the private sector.

    Narrow the project’s scope building on lessons learned from previous operations
     and the Bank’s comparative advantage. Building on lessons learned from former
     operations, and considering the factors that led to a delay in project implementation,
     EGTAG2‟s scope was narrowed down to two strategic areas: (i) budget formulation
     and execution and (ii) budget monitoring and controls. These were areas where the
     Bank had a comparative advantage, given its long term engagement with
     beneficiaries. The limitation of the scope of the project took into account the limited
     lending envelope and was expected to simplify project supervision.

    Incorporate the findings of recent analytical work. By revealing specific
     weaknesses in the management of public resources, the Public Expenditure and
     Financial Accountability Report (PEMFAR) analysis, which was completed in
     2008, helped the Bank team refine the PDO and determine appropriate outcome
     indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13. The original beneficiaries comprised the main institutions responsible for
Public Financial Management, Human Resources and accountability institutions.
These include: (i) the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), including: the General
Directorate of the Budget (DGB), the General Directorate of the Treasury (DGT), the
Office of Economic Studies (DEE) and the General Directorate of the Ministry (DGM);
(ii) the Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation (MPCE), (iii) the National
Procurement Commission (CNMP); (iv) the Supreme Audit Institution (CSC/CA); (v) the
Anti-Corruption Unit (ULCC); (vi) the Human Resources Unit within the Prime
Minister‟s Office (OMRH); (vii) the MEF‟s Executive Secretary and Oversight
Committee for the civil society and (viii) one or two sector ministries to be selected.

14. Further to the 2009 restructuring, the revised beneficiaries also included
Parliamentarians and Inspection Générale des Finances (IGF). The revised
beneficiaries include: (i) the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), including the
General Directorate of the Budget (DGB), and the Directorate of Economic Studies
(DEE); (ii) The Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation (MPCE); (iii) the
National Procurement Commission (Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics,
CNMP); (iv) the Supreme Audit Institution (Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du
Contentieux Administratif (CSC/CA); (v) the Anti-Corruption Unit (Unité de Lutte
Contre la Corruption, (ULCC); (vi) the Human Resources Unit within the Prime‟s




                                            4
Minister Office (OMRH); (vii) the Government Training Center (CEFOPAFOP); (viii)
the General Inspectorate of Finance (IGF); (xix) Civil Society and Parliamentarians.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

15. Originally, the project included five components. These components were: (i)
financial resource management; (ii) human resources development; (iii) monitoring of
service delivery; (iv) anti-corruption and civil society engagement; and (v)
communication, coordination, and project management. Below is a detailed description
of each project component, as inferred from the Financing Agreement (No H237-0-HA).

Component 1 - Financial Resource Management (US$700,000)

16. This component aimed at strengthening financial resource management with
the following:
 The carrying out, through the provision of technical advisory services, equipment and
    training programs for selected staff of MEF and the Executing Agencies of:(a) follow
    up activities in respect of the design and implementation of basic budgetary
    procedures and functions, including in a program-oriented and results linked format;
    and (b) an evaluation of the initial results of the new budgetary procedures.
 The implementation of, and further adjustment to, the plan to improve CSCCA‟s
    performance as an ex-post public auditing body.
 The provision of support for the operation of the CNMP, including through reinforced
    institution-building, the development of training programs in standardized
    procurement procedures for sector procurement staff and the subsequent elaboration
    of related standardized documents.

Component 2 – Human Resource Development (US$500,000)

17. This component aimed at further advancing the Recipient’s capacity to
develop its human resource base through the provision of technical advisory
services and training and the acquisition of equipment for:
 The assessment and continued implementation of the Recipient‟s legal framework on
   civil service and central administration organization and the development of
   procedures and incentives for personnel selection and, performance evaluation.
 The building of capacity in information and data management for the Human
   Resources Unit to enable it to monitor human resource needs policy and programs.
 The development of working relations between the central Human Resources Unit
   and sector human resources departments; and the provision of assistance by the
   Human Resources Unit to other agencies in developing plans to meet current and
   future personnel requirements. This included the use of information and
   communication technology tools for, inter alia, the creation of a single public
   employees‟ database and a uniform set of personnel records.
 The building of institutional capacity for human resources management in the Prime
   Minister‟s Office (BPM) and in human resources offices of other selected Recipient‟s



                                           5
   public agencies with a view to assist in the design and spearheading of a longer-term
   civil service reform.

Component 3 – Development of MEF Capacity for Strategic Monitoring of Sector
Policy through Sector Ministries’ Tracking of Service Delivery (US$300,000)

18. This component aimed at developing MEF and MPCE’s capacity for strategic
monitoring of sector outputs and policy using:
 Support which was specifically intended for MEF‟s office of economic studies to
   assist in creating methodologies to link current and investment budgets to streamline
   government priorities.
 Identify Selected Agencies to participate in pilot assessments. These assessments will
   consider current practices in terms of needs and capabilities in monitoring civil
   service delivery.
 Provide technical advisory services and equipment to develop procedures for tracking
   service delivery in the Selected Agencies.

Component 4 – Anti-corruption and Civil Society Engagement (US$250,000)

19. The objective of this component was to strengthen transparency of all public
transactions and operations by:
 The further enhancement of ULCC‟s capacity for anti-corruption programming,
   detection and sanctioning, including through the continuance of the preparation of a
   modernized legal framework in relation thereto.
 The provision of training to improve the performance of the mechanisms for
   monitoring economic governance by civil society.

Component 5 – Communication, Donor Coordination, and Project Management
(US$190,000)

20. The aim of this component was to ensure optimal efficiency of Project
implementation. This was done by providing continued support to UCP for further
implementation of the following:
 Communication mechanisms and strategies needed to disseminate the contents of the
   Recipient‟s reform program and to ensure wider ownership thereof among the public.
 Donor coordination activities in the area of economic governance.
 Management, coordination and monitoring activities related to the Project. These
   activities include organizing meetings for staff members responsible for the project
   from different Executing Agencies.

1.6 Revised Components

21. The original five components were reorganized into three components. Within
these three components, resources were reallocated to two new critical beneficiaries: the
General Inspectorate of Finance, and the key Parliamentary committees (see table 1 for



                                           6
an overview of the changes). Below is a detailed description of each revised component,
as stated in the amendment to the Financing Agreement ((No H237-0-HA)..

Component 1: Strengthening Budget Formulation and Execution (US$1,320,000)

22. The objective of this component was to continue strengthening budget
formulation and execution by:
 Executing: (a) capacity building activities related to the design and implementation of
   the budget reform, including activities to develop strategies at the sector level and a
   framework to manage externally funded expenditures; and (b) activities related to the
   debt management system for the debt management unit of MEF.
 Building capacity in Human Resources Management information for the Human
   Resources Unit. This was intended to enable it to monitor human resource needs via:
   (a) the implementation of a single public employees' database and a standardized set
   of personnel records; and (b) the execution of a study on non-permanent employees to
   better understand the budget implications, thereby providing support to MEF to refine
   the preparation of the budget law.
 Further developing MEF and MPCE's capacity for strategic monitoring of sector
   outputs and policy. This would be achieved by: (a) providing support specifically for
   MEF‟s office of economic studies to assist in creating methodologies to link current
   and investment budgets in order to streamline government priorities; (b) identifying
   Selected Agencies to participate in pilot assessments. These assessments would
   consider their current practices in terms of needs and capabilities in monitoring civil
   service delivery; and (c) developing procedures for tracking service delivery in said
   Selected Agencies.
 Providing support for operation of the CNMP. This support was to help develop
   training programs in standardized procurement procedures for sector procurement
   staff in partnership with CEFOPAFOP. The training program would also involve
   execution of a dissemination and communication strategy, all of which was expected
   to reinforce institution-building.

Component 2: Strengthening Budget Monitoring and Control (US$480,000)

23. The objective of this component was to continue to strengthen budget
monitoring and control by:
 Designing and implementing the strategic plan for the improvement of CSCCA's
   performance as an ex-post public auditing body. This would include continued
   adjustments to the strategic plan and finalization of the institutional framework.
 Strengthening the General Finance Inspectorate by enhancing the capacity of selected
   staff to monitor and control public expenditures.
 Further enhancement of ULCC's capacity to detect and sanction anti-corruption
   programs; preparation of a youth forum on corruption; execution of analysis on
   governance issues pertaining to the customs, fiscal, judicial and private sector areas.
 Execution of a study on civil society mechanisms and capacity building activities for
   parliamentarians.



                                            7
Component 3: Communication and Project Management (US$200,000)

24. This component aimed to ensure optimal efficiency of Project implementation
by providing continued support to UCP to further implement the following:
 Communication mechanisms and strategies needed to disseminate the contents of the
   Recipient's reform program and to ensure wider ownership thereof among the public.
 Activities on management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation and fiduciary
   issues to build capacity of UCP staff, and hiring a deputy accountant for the Project.
                               Table 1: Original and Revised Costs by Component
Original Project              Original            Revised Project Components            Proposed                 Difference
Components as in initial      Allocation (USD)                                          Reallocation             in Costs by
PAD (Report No: 35909-        as in initial PAD                                         (USD)                    Component
HT)
(I) Financial Resource                  700,000   (I) Improvement of Budget                       1,320,000        +620,000
Management                                        Formulation and Execution

(II) Human Resource                     500,000   Scope reduced and included in                                     -500,000
Development                                       Component I

(III) Improved capacity of              300,000   This component has been transferred                               -300,000
MEF and selected sector                           to Component I
agencies to monitor service
delivery and sector policy
(IV) Anti-corruption and                250,000   (II) Strengthening Budget                            480,000     +230,000
Civil Society Engagement                          Monitoring and Control

(V) Communication,                      190,000   (III) Communication and Project                      200,000      +10,000
Donor Coordination, and                           Management
Project Management
(VI) To be programmed                    60,000



1.7 Other significant changes

25. In 2009, the project’s closing date was extended from 30 June 2009 to 30 June
2011 in two steps. The project was granted a four-month bridging extension until 31
October 2009 while the Board approved restructuring was being processed and was then
extended until 30 June 2011, as part of the restructuring. The two-year extension was
justified by delays in the Grant Agreement‟s ratification by the Recipient. This was due
to difficulties in reaching an agreement regarding conditions for the ratification of IDA
grants more broadly. An agreement was reached in 2007 by the Government and National
Assembly that exempted such grants from the requirement of the ratification by the
Assembly.

26. Proceeds were re-allocated. Disbursement categories were consolidated into a
single category for: consulting services, works, goods and operating costs in order to
facilitate the implementation of the activities.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry



                                                            8
27. The present ICR finds the EGTAG2 quality of entry to be Unsatisfactory.
Despite the overall relevance of its objectives, the design of the project was too complex
and overly ambitious given the limited financing available and the implementation
challenges in a fragile state.

Strengths of the program at entry

28. The overall development objectives of the project were appropriate, albeit very
broad, as noted by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) panel’s report, conducted
in 20081. The objectives of the project were aligned with the 2004 Bank Transitional
Support Strategy (Report No 30541-HT), which emphasized the need to strengthen
institutions and restore their credibility. They also reflected the Government‟s own
priorities, as articulated in the economic governance pillar of the ICF. Some components
of the project included innovative features, such as the introduction of elements of civil
society monitoring.

29. EGTAG2’s objectives and activities were aligned with the reform agenda
supported by Bank budget support operations (the EGRO series). While the Bank
provided budget support to Haiti through the EGRO series, the strengthening of
government capacity in the areas addressed by budget support operations was important
to ensure an adequate pace of implementation of the reform program.

30. The project sought to incorporate lessons learned from previous operations
(LICUS and EGTAG1). Lessons learned included: (i) the need to work incrementally;
(ii) the importance of constant communication and coordination among and within
governmental agencies and among donors; (iii) the key role played by the counterpart
agency and the PCU in effecting this coordinating function; and (iv) the need to assist the
authorities in implementing existing legislation before supporting the adoption of new
legislation or systems. EGTAG2 therefore incorporated technical assistance to support
the implementation of the new budget law, the procurement decree, and the decree
defining the CSCCA‟s operations. It also emphasized the importance of working through
donor coordination mechanisms.

31. As noted by the 2008 QAG panel report, donor collaboration was strong in the
preparation of the operation. It was undertaken in close collaboration with other donor
agencies active in the area of economic governance (IADB, USAID, AECI, EU, IMF and
the French collaboration agency). An economic governance group led by GoH helped
coordinate donor work and ensure that it met Government priorities. The panel noted that
the focus on this collaboration ensured that the direction of donor support was consistent
with the priorities in the Interim Cooperation Framework. Nonetheless, the panel also


1
  This 2008 QAG report rated the risks of EGTAG2. It did not rate the quality at entry and the quality of supervision,
but included some comments on both aspects. Regarding the PDO, the QAG panel‟s report noted: “The current
statement of development objective, while appropriate, is very broad and not supported by measurable and monitorable
indicators to enable monitoring of progress and defining of success.?




                                                          9
noted that the coordination of all donors needed to be strengthened particularly with the
IADB in order to maintain the momentum of economic governance reforms and that a
joint institutional capacity building strategy needed to be prepared.

Weaknesses of the project at entry

32. The project design was too complex and overly ambitious, with regard to
capacity constraints and the limited amount of financing available (US$2,000,000).
The development objectives covered exhaustively all aspects of economic governance
(budgetary, control and procurement systems, human resources management, monitoring
of service delivery, anti-corruption, transparency and public participation programs). To
support these broad objectives, the project comprised more than 30 activities in five
different sectors involving UCP and over ten different direct counterparts. These internal
implementation arrangements, as well as the high number of activities, limited the
Government‟s ability to implement the project in an efficient way, further stretching
weak Government‟s capacity.

33. The overlap between the implementation of EGTAG1 and EGTAG2 has
introduced further complexity. To ensure that IDA13 resources allocated to Haiti were
fully used, EGTAG2 was presented to the Board only one year after EGTAG1; at this
point the implementation of EGTAG1 was still in its early stages. The overlap between
the implementation periods, the objectives, activities and indicators of both projects
further increased the complexity of the supervision and monitoring of their respective
progress. Pooling funding could have eased supervision for the Bank team as well as for
the counterparts, especially given the previous comments on capacity. Moreover, the
overlap significantly delayed disbursements under EGTAG2, which began only after
EGTAG1 closed on September 30, 2009.

34. The risk related to the capacity of the PCU to handle several projects should
have been rated high instead of medium. The PCU supervised the implementation of
EGTAG2, IADB-financed projects, the Bank Infrastructure and, after the earthquake, the
Institutional Emergency Recovery Project (PRUII, P120895). Although staff were
adequately qualified, managing all these projects simultaneously was challenging,
especially in 2010, when the PCU experienced a high turnover. Stronger mitigation
measures would have included, for example, systematic training for newly hired staff,
who were not familiar with bank procedures, and an appropriate incentive system to
retain PCU staff.

35. Weak government support and sustainability of reforms, identified as two
additional risks by the 2008 QAG report, had not been emphasized during project
preparation. The QAG panel report noted that reforms do not appear to have
government ownership, although the GoH understands them and supports them. It
indicated that: “reforms are driven by international pressures and are strongly encouraged
by the resource transfer carrot. Their implementation requires intensive donor
coordination to ensure that the GoH clearly understands that all aid is tied to economic
governance reforms. (…). Furthermore, it noted that “to be sustainable, the project will



                                           10
require donor coordination to back up the reforms on a permanent basis. Follow-on
projects would also ensure the sustainability of reforms.?

36. Finally, the project lacked an appropriate Monitoring and Evaluation system.
As noted by the 2008 QAG panel report, the PDO objective was too broad and the project
lacked an appropriate set of realistic performance indicators and baseline data.

2.2 Implementation

‘Force majeure’ factors

37. Between 2008 and 2010, the project experienced a series of external shocks that
disrupted project implementation:
 Haiti was hit by four back-to–back hurricanes (Fay, Gustav, Hanna and Ike)
    and by tropical storms in August-September 2008. These natural disasters caused
    damages and losses estimated at nearly a billion dollars, or about 15 percent of GDP.
    They threatened macro-economic stability and diverted resources away from
    government priorities, and weakened Government capacity.
 Project implementation was affected by the 2010 earthquake, which significantly
    decreased the capacity of the Haitian administration. It caused massive human
    and material damages to the beneficiaries of the project. In particular, the following
    buildings collapsed or were severely damaged: the National Public Procurement
    Commission, the Supreme Audit Institution, the Office of Human Resources
    Management, and the Government Capacity‟s Building Institute. Some data were
    lost, and unfortunately some critical staff members lost their lives. In this context,
    some activities envisaged under EGTAG2 could not been carried out or were no
    longer identified as priorities. In the aftermath of the earthquake, most of EGTAG2‟s
    procurement processes were interrupted for several months (at least until May 2010),
    to give priority to the urgent reconstruction needs.
 The earthquake created substantial political uncertainty. Presidential and
    municipal elections, previously scheduled to be held in 2010 stalled. A new Prime
    Minister was appointed only in October 2011, months after the presidential elections
    of March 2011 and the new Government only took office at the end of October 2011.
 Project supervision was disrupted due to several unexpected events in 2010.
    Project supervision was particularly affected by a serious accident involving the Bank
    TTL in May 2010 and the murder of the project Coordinator a few weeks later. The
    PCU also lost the assistant Accountant during the 2010 earthquake, and had to renew
    its team members almost entirely in 2010, including: the Coordinator, the
    Procurement Specialist, the Financial Specialist and the assistant Accountant. These
    difficult circumstances obliged the PCU to replace and quickly train new critical staff,
    which led to implementation delays. On the Bank side, the TTL position remained
    vacant from May to September 2010, after the accident, and there were a total of four
    TTLs over the lifetime of the project.




                                            11
Other factors subject to Recipient and/or Bank Control

38. In addition to these external shocks, some factors were more directly subject to
Recipient and/or Bank control:
 EGTAG2 became effective on August 16, 2007, 14 months after the Bank
    Board’s approval on June 20, 2006. The grant became effective following an
    agreement by the Government and the National Assembly that exempted such grants
    from the requirement for ratification by the Assembly.
 The implementation of EGTAG1's activities impacted on the timely
    implementation of EGTAG2. EGTAG2‟s activities were closely tied to advances
    made under the former operation. Also, there was an overlap between the
    implementation of EGTAG1 and EGTAG2, which contributed to slowing down
    implementation. Priority was given to continuing to execute the funds in EGTAG1,
    which was extended twice and closed in September 30, 2009, instead of December
    31, 2007, as originally planned. Until the closing date of EGTAG1 in September
    2009, there was almost no disbursement from EGTAG2.
 The 2009 restructuring did not succeed in streamlining the complex project’s
    design. Although the components were reduced from five to three and the scope of
    the project was reduced to focus on budget formulation and execution and control,
    the project still involved over ten counterpart institutions and comprised more than
    40 procurement processes, including several small contracts for individual
    consultants.
 The second restructuring’s initiative was not completed. The mid-term review,
    conducted in May 2010, identified the need to restructure the project to adapt to
    post-earthquake circumstances and also to simplify the project by reducing the
    number of activities and counterpart institutions. Discussions on the content of the
    restructuring were re-initiated by the GoH and the new TTL in October 2010. A
    request for a second restructuring and an extension of the project was formally
    submitted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance to the Bank on December 3,
    2010. However, in light of the post-earthquake circumstances and the election of a
    new government, Bank management considered it more relevant to explore new
    avenues to provide support for economic governance.
 The high number of procurement processes was time-consuming and impacted
    on project implementation. First, it was hard to find and mobilize specialists with
    adequate skills for each stage of the procurement process. Second, the drafting of
    terms of reference remained a very iterative process between the Government, the
    PCU and the Bank to ensure quality standards acceptable to the Bank. Third,
    compliance with procurement procedures required intensive supervision from the
    Bank.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design

39. The 2008 QAG panel report noted that the original design of the project lacked
an appropriate Monitoring and Evaluation System. It pointed out that “the current


                                          12
statement of development objectives, while appropriate, is very broad and not supported
by measurable and monitorable indicators to enable monitoring of progress and defining
success. The project lacks adequate indicators and an appropriate monitoring and
evaluation system. The project would benefit from a more realistic set of performance
indicators and baseline data.?

40. The 2009 restructuring sought to incorporate the QAG’s recommendations by
refining the PDO indicators. The scope of the PDO put stronger emphasis on budget
formulation, execution and control. Outcome indicators sought to encompass the whole
range of activities. They were aligned with the PEFA-PFM framework, which are
standard indicators for the evaluation of the public finance management system.

41. However, the 2009 restructuring did not significantly reduce the scope of the
PDO and did not adjust the original intermediate outcomes indicators. The revised
PDOs (improving budget formulation, execution and controls) remained broad. It
encompassed: the entire budget cycle and all related PFM processes and systems; public
procurement, Human Resources Management; and anti-corruption. In addition, the PDO
indicators for anti-corruption and public procurement lacked baselines. While the scope
of the restructuring required the adjustment of intermediate outcome indicators, this was
not done during the restructuring process, nor formally recorded and agreed. Instead,
revised intermediate outcomes indicators were adjusted in the Implementation Status
Results reports (ISRs), maintaining an inconsistency between the Board approved
documents and the ISRs associated with EGTAG2.

M&E Implementation

42. Progress       monitoring      remained     challenging       throughout     project
implementation. Although the Bank regularly monitored progress through periodic Bank
supervision missions, collecting relevant data was difficult. Firstly, some data was not
available after the earthquake (e.g., data on the use of competition in the award of
contracts, number of ministries using the human resource registry). In addition, PEFA
indicators were not fully owned by the counterpart institutions and the PCU. However a
workshop organized during the mid-term review in May 2010 had helped them to
improve their understanding of the indicators.

M&E Utilization

43. Monitoring of project progress improved during the course of the project. The
Bank team channeled its M&E process through ISRs, aide memoires and the mid-term
review. Before the 2009 restructuring, most of the indicators were similar to EGTAG1
indicators, so progress in some of those reflects support provided through EGTAG1
rather than any specific EGTAG2 achievements. After the 2009 restructuring, EGTAG2
progress could be monitored through specific indicators, which were introduced in the
ISRs without being formally validated.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance



                                           13
44. Because of the nature of the project, safeguard analysis is not applicable.

45. Overall, there were not any systemic problems with regard to the quality and
reliability of the FM and the procurement administration of the project. The FM and
procurement performance of the project remained either “Moderately Satisfactory? or
“Satisfactory? throughout most of the project life.

46. There were no significant deviations from the Bank’s standard procurement
procedures throughout the life of the project. Procurement processes were
systematically reviewed by the procurement team and complied with the Bank‟s
guidelines. The contracts granted with a sole source basis (more than 50% of the
contracts in value) were considered justified and procedures were respected. However,
there was an efficiency challenge due to the high number of contracts with individual
consultants which hampered the project implementation. Contracts, including their
expiration date and implementation arrangements, were not closely monitored by the
PCU.

47. FM processes were respected, despite delays in the submission of some
financial reports. The audit covering the period from September, 1st 2007 to September
30, 2009, also the interim financial reports (IFRs) for the periods ending in February
2010, March 2011 and May 2011 were not submitted in a timely manner. However, the
quality of the reports produced by the PCU was acceptable to the Bank. The audit did not
raise any incoherence or abnormality and the auditors certified EGTAG2‟s financial
statements without any reservation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

48. In FY11, some EGTAG2 activities were transferred to the Infrastructure and
Institutional Emergency Recovery Project approved in March 2008 to respond to
the earthquake (PRUII, P120895). There were strong synergies between EGTAG2,
budget support operations, and the Infrastructure and Institutional Emergency Recovery
Project (PRUII, P120895). These synergies came about because all these projects focused
on institutional strengthening and public finance management. Some priority activities,
such as technical assistance to the Directorate of Economic Studies and the Supreme
Audit Institution, which could not be completed before EGTAG2‟s closing date, were
transferred to PRUII (P120895).

49. Under the Interim Strategy CY12, the Bank is exploring new options for
providing support to economic governance. This remains an important priority in
Haiti. While there will not be any direct follow-up operation to EGTAG2, strengthening
governance has been included as a cross-cutting theme in the Interim Strategy Note
CY12. Support to Public Financial Management will be provided through two existing
instruments: (i) the Infrastructure and Institutions Emergency Recovery project (PRUII,
P120895) and (ii) a GPF Grant: “Enhancing Political Leadership to Improve Governance
and Public Sector Performance in Haiti? (TF094822). New activities being prepared in



                                          14
2012 include a budget support operation (DPO) leveraging policy actions in public
finance management and in sectors critical to Haiti reconstruction. Medium-term support
is likely to be provided through a Technical Assistance Project, the scope and calendar of
which are still to be defined. Finally, sector operations, (e.g., in the areas of Education,
Agriculture, Energy) will continue to strengthen institutional capacity.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

50. Although reconstruction became GoH’s main priority after the 2010
earthquake, the EGTAG2 PDO remains relevant. EGTAG2‟s objectives supported the
key pillars of the Government‟s poverty reduction strategy (DSNCRP, 2008-10) by
building state capacity and improving management of public resources. Even after the
earthquake, improving the management of public finances has remained a major priority
of the reform agenda in Haiti. Alongside the emergency response to the crisis, the
government needs enhanced capacity and effective public finance management to address
reconstruction challenges and to manage the significant flow of resources that is being
channeled to Haiti subsequent to the earthquake. The Government of Haiti‟s National
Recovery and Development Plan (PARDH) includes the reconstruction of institutions as
a priority, with the objective of strengthening the role of the state; re-establishing justice
and security; increasing decentralization; and increasing government capacity. Finally,
the activities supported by EGTAG2, with their focus on fiduciary transparency and
controls, contribute indirectly to one of the pillars of President Martelly‟s program (“the
four Es?), which aims at strengthening the “Rule of Law? (l’Etat de droit).

51. EGTAG2 PDO continues to be consistent with current Bank assistance
strategy. In 2009, the original PDO was re-aligned with the country Assistance Strategy
FY09-12 (CAS, Report No 48284-HT), which replaced the 2004 Transitional Support
Strategy (Report No 30541-HT), and the Interim Strategy Note (Report No 30541-HT)
for the period FY07-08. The 2009 CAS, while maintaining a strong focus on economic
governance reforms as a cross-cutting pillar, sought to concentrate the Bank‟s
interventions in areas where it had a competitive advantage. The scope of EGTAG2‟s
PDO was adjusted to place stronger emphasis on the budget process and budget control
mechanisms. As already noted, Interim Strategy Note CY12, reaffirmed the Bank‟s
support to institutional strengthening reforms. It includes a cross-cutting theme which
aims to promote sound policies in the area of investment, as well as to improve economic
governance, with the view to strengthening the Government‟s ability to make and
implement decisions that drive reconstruction.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

PDO 1: Strengthening the institutional Capacity of the Republic of Haiti in the area of
budget formulation and execution




                                             15
52. None of the associated outcome indicators related to PDO1 has been achieved.
It can be inferred from the key associated outcome indicators related to this PDO that the
project specifically aimed to: (i) enhance the comprehensiveness of information included
in the budget, in order to improve budget formulation, and (ii) improve the open
competition in procurement processes.
                               Table 2: Key Associated Outcome Indicators for PDO#1
Key Outcome Indicator                        Baseline                    Target (as stated in the       Status / Comments
                                                                         restructuring paper)
PEFA indicator 6: comprehensiveness          C: Recent budget            C+ : Improvement in            Not Achieved (C)
of information included in budget            documentation fulfills      information benchmarks         Budget Documentation fulfills 3
documentation                                3-4 out of the 9            fulfilled by budget            out of the nine information
                                             information                 documentation                  benchmarks
                                             benchmarks                                                 Source: 2011 assessment of PEFA
                                                                                                        indicators by the Bank team2
PEFA indicator 19(i): use of                 Not rated                   C: Available data shows        Not Achieved (D)
competition in award of contracts (% of                                  that less than 50% of          Insufficient data exists to assess
public contracts awarded on a                                            contracts above the            the method used to award public
competitive basis)3.                                                     threshold are awarded on       contracts
                                                                         an open competitive            Source: 2011 assessment of PEFA
                                                                         basis, but the data may        indicators by the Bank team
                                                                         not be accurate.


Improving the comprehensiveness of information included in budget documentation

53. Based on the 2011 assessment of PEFA indicators by the Bank team, the
comprehensiveness of the budget information has not improved. The associated
outcome indicator has not met its target. The budget document would meet three out of
nine criteria of the PEFA indicator 6: (i) macro-economic assumptions, (ii) the budget
deficit, and (iii) the funding of the deficit.

54. EGTAG2’s contribution to improvements in the comprehensiveness of the
budget information has remained very limited:
 EGTAG2, further to EGTAG1, has supported the installation of the debt management
   software (SYGADE). This includes a database, which has improved the availability,
   quality and security of debt data. The debt data have been centralized in a single
   database, which covers loans and partially covers grants. The centralized database
   and updated software could potentially help the government to produce and publish
   detailed debt statistical reports, which would offer a comprehensive overview of the
   external debt situation in Haiti. Thankfully, the database was not destroyed by the
   earthquake, although activities related to the use of the database and the production of
   reports have been put on hold. As a result, only one draft debt statistical bulletin was
   produced with SYGADE, this was produced in October 2009. Reports on the



2
    A PEFA assessment financed by the EU is being prepared. It had not been published at the time of the preparation of this ICR.

3
  The indicator 19 was revised in January 2011 by the PEFA Secretariat. PEFA 19(i) became PEFA 19(ii): “Use of competitive
procurement methods?. The justification for the rating “D? is still similar in both versions: “reliable data is not available [on contracts
awarded by methods other than open competition], in the version of January 2011 and “insufficient data exists to assess the method
used to award public contract? in the version of June 2005.




                                                                    16
     evolution of public debt are still produced manually by the Directorate of Public
     Debt.
    The operation helped MEF‟s Directorate of Economic Studies to enhance its capacity
     and to provide analytical elements to inform budget preparation. In particular, with
     the help of technical assistance under EGTAG2, the DEE has defined a strategy of
     economic recovery for Haiti which informed the reconstruction plan presented at the
     donor conference of March 2010 and also informed the budget. This output,
     nonetheless, did not directly influence the comprehensiveness of budget information.
    Finally, the project, following on from EGTAG1 supported the development of a
     central human resources registry that would have allowed the government to better
     monitor human resources and control payroll data. EGTAG1 saw encouraging
     progress, for example the installation of the central human resources database in pilot
     ministries. However, following the earthquake, activity within the Human Resources
     Unit (the OMRH), which managed this reform was put on hold. To date, the HR
     registry is not operational.

Improving open competition in procurement processes

55. There is no evidence of improvement in the use of competition in award of
contracts. Recent procurement data was lost in the 2010 earthquake that destroyed the
main government administrative buildings. The government is therefore commissioning a
consultancy to gather data from line ministries. Furthermore, available data on
procurement only include contracts subject to the CNMP ex-ante approval. At the time of
the closing of the project, there was no information available on contracts awarded under
the emergency law or on contracts related to security or defense issues. However, in
September 2011, the Prime Minister‟s Office submitted to the CNMP the list of all
contracts processed under the emergency law during Haitian FY10-11. Transparency
regarding the award of the contracts was an objective supported by the Bank financed
emergency DPO (P118239) approved in August 2010.

56. Despite efforts initiated since 2004, progress to reform public procurement has
been limited. Progress made since 2004 include (i) the creation of the National Public
Procurement Commission [Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics, CNMP]; (ii) the
adoption of a new Procurement Law by Parliament in June 2009; complemented by (iii)
the issuance of four key implementing decrees (arrêtés d‟application 4 ); and (iv) the
introduction of standard bidding documents and a manual of procedures for government
staff based on the new code. However, the legal framework still needs to be completed by
the publication of the remaining implementing decrees, which were initially foreseen, to
ensure the full effectiveness of the 2009 law.




4
  The four implementing decrees that have been published are: (i) the decree establishing relevant thresholds with respect to public
procurement; (ii) the decree setting forth the institutional rules and procedures for the CNMP; (iii) the decree setting forth the general
rules regarding public procurement rules and public services concessions; and (iv) the decree adopting the manual of procedures for
public procurement and mandating its general application.




                                                                   17
57. The contribution of EGTAG2 to Government achievements in procurement
reforms is not significant. Its contribution was limited to supporting the organization of
an awareness workshop in 2009 on public procurement practices and to purchase
equipment after the earthquake in order to help the institution re-initiate the operations.

PDO 2- Strengthening the institutional Capacity of the Republic of Haiti in the area of
budget monitoring and controls

58. None of the associated key outcome indicators related to PDO2 has been
achieved (see table 3). In order to achieve this PDO, the project was intended
specifically to: (i) strengthen external controls; (ii) strengthen internal controls; and (iii)
improve the transparency and anti-corruption regulation.


                              Table 3: Key Associated Outcomes Indicators for PDO2
PDO objectives                      Baseline                      Target (as stated in the          Status
                                                                  restructuring paper)
PEFA indicator 26(ii):              D+: Audit reports are         C : Audit reports are submitted   The 08/09 audit report had not
timeliness of submission of audit   submitted to Parliament       to the legislature within 12      been transmitted to Parliament as
reports to legislature.             beyond the 12-month           months of the end of the period   of June 2011, 12 months after
                                    period after the end of the   covered (for audit of financial   the end of the period covered and
                                    fiscal period under           statements from their receipt     the receipt of financial
                                    review.                       by the auditors)                  statements by auditors. This
                                                                                                    would correspond to a D+ rating
                                                                                                    in normal circumstances.
                                                                                                    However, the 08/09 audit report
                                                                                                    could not be transmitted to
                                                                                                    Parliament with the budget as is
                                                                                                    the norm, since the FY10-11
                                                                                                    budget was adopted by decree
                                                                                                    due to the earthquake. Given
                                                                                                    these exceptional circumstances,
                                                                                                    the indicator cannot be rated.
                                                                                                    Source: 2011 assessment of
                                                                                                    PEFA indicators by the Bank
                                                                                                    team
Increased understanding of          No current Survey Data        Opinion Surveys                   Not achieved
corruption practices, as                                                                            No Survey undertaken
measured by studies'                                                                                Source: Bank‟s assessment
dissemination seminars exit
surveys


Strengthening External Controls

59. The timeliness of the submission of public accounts’ annual audits has
improved, even if the related PEFA outcome indicator cannot be rated. The backlog
of General accounts‟ audits, which existed in 2006 has been progressively eliminated.
The MEF has shortened the preparation time for the General Accounts. Government
accounts for 2008-09 were submitted in a timely fashion by the MEF to the Supreme
Audit Institution, by the end of May 2010. As of June 2011, the Supreme Audit
Institution has submitted to Parliament the audit of the General Accounts for the fiscal
years 2005/06, and 2007/08. Conversely, the CSC/CA transmitted the 2008/09 audit
report to the Government in September 2011, over twelve months after the receipt of the
General Accounts by the CSC/CA and the end of the period under review. It has not
transmitted the report to Parliament yet. However, the 08/09 audit report was carried out


                                                                  18
under exceptional circumstances, since the 2010 earthquake destroyed the CSC/CA
building. Besides, the audit report could not be transmitted to Parliament with the budget,
as is the norm, since the FY10-11 budget was adopted by decree due to the earthquake.

60. Given their level of achievement, activities supported by EGTAG2 could not
contribute to enhancing external controls. EGTAG2 provided technical assistance to
help the CSC/CA define a law; to modernize its organization; and to enhance the
effectiveness of its internal processes. To date, this law is still in draft form and has not
been submitted to Parliament.

Strengthening Internal Controls

61. Internal controls have been enhanced since the project’s appraisal. Although
the project did not include any key outcome indicator associated with this activity,
progress can be assessed qualitatively. The Government carried out the critical staffing of
its General Finance Inspectorate (Inspection Générale des Finances), which was created
in order to start up internal audit operations as one of the prior actions for this sub-
component. IGF‟s action plan was revised in June 2010 to integrate emerging priorities
and was expanded to cover the period 2010-2014. Based on this revised work program,
IGF has begun audits in the Central, North and South regions.

62. The project financed equipment which facilitated and improved the
effectiveness of IGF’s field audits. It also financed an IGF visit to a peer institution.
This mission allowed the IGF to explore potential ways of cooperation and to analyze
areas for improvement regarding its organization, audit processes and techniques.

Improving the understanding of corruption practices

63. In the area of transparency and anti-corruption, there is no evidence of an
increased understanding of corruption practices. A study on corruption practices of
private companies doing business with the public sector was completed by the end of the
project. The study still has to be published and its impact evaluated. No exit surveys were
carried out following study dissemination seminars, prior to the closure of the project.

3.3 Efficiency

64. As an institution-building project, quantitative computations of rates of return
are not applicable. The PAD nonetheless listed expected qualitative economic gains
such as: most effective and efficient allocation of public resources; and aid and
investments. As a consequence, it was deemed that these gains increased the impact of
social programs and improved public services delivered to the poor. The operation
however, did not significantly contribute to these results. Considering the costs related to
the project‟s preparation and the supervision in regard to the modest results achieved, the
efficiency in the use of funds is low.




                                             19
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory

65. Given the limited achievements of the project and the low efficiency in the use
of funds, the overall outcome rating is rated unsatisfactory. Although progress was
made by the Government of Haiti in budget formulation, execution, and control as well as
in other areas covered by EGTAG2, the contribution of EGTAG2 to these achievements
remained very limited. In particular, no PDO has been achieved and the disbursement
rate is low. Hence, the unsatisfactory overall outcome rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

66. Poverty, gender and social development implications were not significant since
the project focused on institution building and improving economic governance through
technical assistance.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

67. The project’s institutional development impact has been limited. The operation
did contribute, albeit modestly to enhancing the capacity of the Directorate of Economic
Studies, the Directorate of Budget, and the General Inspectorate of Finance through the
provision of technical assistance.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

68. The project contributed to supporting reconstruction efforts after the
earthquake. Jointly with the Infrastructure and Institutions Emergency Recovery Project,
EGTAG2 supported the assessment of the counterpart institutions‟ needs in equipment
and furniture to reinitiate their operations. The project also assisted the Government in
defining an economic strategy for recovery. This work informed the Government‟s
Action Plan for Haiti Recovery (PARDH), which was presented at the Donor Conference
in March 2010.

3.6 Summary of Findings of the Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

69. Development outcomes were not achieved, partly due to the risks mentioned
below. Beyond natural disasters, institutional capacity remains the main risk to reform
sustainability in Haiti.




                                           20
70. Institutional capacity remains the main risk to development outcomes. The
major constraint to reform implementation continues to be limited institutional capacity
in the public sector, to define, oversee and implement reforms. The Haitian Government
and development partners are mitigating this challenge through financial and technical
assistance.

71. Development outcomes are highly vulnerable to natural disasters including
earthquakes, hurricanes and floods. Renewed occurrence of large-scale natural
disasters derails the Government‟s reform efforts and diverts resources from the longer
term development agenda towards more urgent recovery and reconstruction needs.
However, the Bank‟s ongoing portfolio, especially emergency recovery projects,
successfully supports the Government‟s capacity for preparation and preventive actions
to shield the population and the country‟s infrastructure from disasters. In addition,
emergency funding reserves have been introduced into every new project under the CY12
ISN, which is currently being prepared, to rapidly respond to adverse shocks.

72. The risk of an economic downturn in major international economies could
have a serious negative impact on Haiti, through reduced remittances, donor
funding and investment. Support from the Bank and other donors will be a mitigating
factor for Haiti in these areas. However, a serious crisis would reduce the overall
effectiveness of that assistance and might affect the envelope available to pursue further
governance reforms.

73. Haiti remains vulnerable to political and social instability. In particular, delays
in establishing a new government resulted in greater uncertainty in Haiti political and
economic environment. High expectations with regard to reconstruction continue to
generate social tensions and remain a challenge for the Government and the international
community.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

74. Project implementation experience shows that the quality at entry was not
satisfactory. The Bank‟s operation supported relevant development objectives for the
Government of Haiti and sought to incorporate lessons learned from previous operations,
including EGTAG1. Nonetheless, given the capacity constraints and the challenging
environment, a more limited number of objectives, activities, and counterpart institutions
would have been preferred. The quasi-simultaneous implementation of EGTAG1 and
EGTAG2, with one year between them, hampered project implementation and increased
the complexity of the supervision. Finally, the design aspects of project monitoring and
evaluation were not properly addressed. In particular, the PDOs were too broad and the
project lacked an appropriate set of realistic performance indicators and baseline data.



                                           21
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

75. The Bank has ensured sustained supervision efforts in governance activities
since 2008. During most of the implementation period, the project team, based in the
Washington headquarters, had weekly meetings or audio conferences with the PCU in
addition to regular field supervision missions, to monitor progress made, and to resolve
any pending issues. The intensive Bank supervision was critical to ensure compliance
with all fiduciary requirements, especially during the post-earthquake period.

76. The 2009 restructuring did not succeed in adjusting the complex project’s
design. Although the 2009 restructuring reduced the number of project components from
five to three, it increased the number of activities and beneficiaries, for the same amount
of financing. Following this restructuring, the project still included over 40 procurement
processes and ten counterpart institutions, resulting in an average of US$200,000
available for each counterpart. The issues related to the monitoring and evaluation
framework were not completely fixed. In particular, the restructuring process did not
include appropriate intermediate outcome indicators.

77. From 2010 onward, EGTAG2 supervision and interaction with the
Government were maintained despite challenging circumstances. A series of
exceptional external shocks affected project implementation, including the 2010
earthquake, the serious accident of the TTL and the murder of the Project‟s Coordinator.
Despite these extremely difficult circumstances, the Bank ensured the continuity of the
supervision and monitored all the fiduciary requirements. After the 2010 earthquake, the
Bank team went several times to Haiti and tried to anticipate possible needs and prepare
an early response by advancing on preparation of terms of reference and helping identify
potential consultants in several PFM sectors. It enhanced its coordination with the donor
community. It participated in various meetings to coordinate with donors working in the
area (EU, IADB and the Spanish Cooperation).

78. At the end of 2010, the second restructuring attempt to adjust project design
could not be concluded. The restructuring envisaged at the end of 2010 was intended to
simplify the operation by reducing the number of objectives, components, activities,
counterpart institutions and implementation processes. A request for a second
restructuring and an extension of the project was formally submitted by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance to the Bank on December 3, 2010. However, in light of the post-
earthquake circumstances and the election of a new government, the Bank management
considered it more relevant to explore new options for providing support for economic
governance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                            22
79. This rating is based on the above-described shortcomings in the design and
supervision of the project. Although the Bank could be credited for the intensive
supervision that allowed it to ensure compliance with fiduciary requirements under
challenging circumstances, it could not properly address the shortcomings of the initial
complex design, and the need to simplify the operation.



5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

80. The Government of Haiti remained committed to the development objective of
of the project through the project’s lifetime. While urgent reconstruction needs
became the center of focus in the immediate aftermath of the 2010 earthquake, the
Government re-affirmed its commitment to governance reforms, as expressed in the
Action Plan for Haiti Recovery (PARDH) and President Martelly‟s program (Martelly‟s
program (“the four Es?).

81. The Government of Haiti maintained an open dialogue with the Bank. In
particular, the Government was actively involved in the project‟s mid-term review and in
the restructuring initiatives which aimed at ensuring better project implementation and
the achievement of objectives.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies’ Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

82. There was a large number of direct implementing entities. This project was
implemented by over ten implementing agencies and one coordination unit (PCU) which
was in charge of the fiduciary aspects and reported directly to the MEF.

PCU

83. The PCU was staffed with human resources with adequate qualifications. The
PCU staff was recruited on the basis of their competencies. They have the appropriate
professional qualifications: in project management, finance and procurement, in line with
the job requirements.

84. However, the PCU did not manage to create a dynamic of swift
implementation. In particular, it did not comply with all the requirements of the
covenant and agreements of EGTAG2 in a timely fashion. This relates to: the submission
of the Interim Financial Reports; update of manual of operations following the first
restructuring. The PCU could have monitored procurement processes more closely,
especially with regards to contracts‟ expiry dates. Newly hired staff would have needed




                                           23
further training specifically related to Bank implementation rules, procurement and
financial procedures, as well as monitoring and evaluation.

Implementing Entities

85. The performance of the executing entities remained uneven. While the MEF has
made some tangible advances, such as the implementation of a debt management system,
or the definition of a strategy for economic recovery, other institutions such as the Office
of Human Resources Management (OMRH), the Supreme Audit Institution (CSC/CA),
the National Public Procurement Commission (CNMP) and the Training Center for
Public Administration (CEFOPAFOP) have made no or very little progress.

86. The limited performance of the implementing entities is mainly due to major
external shocks beyond their control. These include the consequences of the
earthquake, and the subsequent damage to several Counterparts‟ buildings, including the
CSC/CA, the CNMP, the OMRH and the CEFOPAFOP. They also suffered the loss of
data and archives and the tragic loss of some critical staff. As a consequence, some
eligible activities could not be carried out or were no longer considered priorities.

87. Conversely, there was room for improvement to facilitate the implementation
of the project. For example, counterparts such as CSC/CA or OMRH did not clearly
define activities to be financed during the project life.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

88. Although the limited performance of the Borrower is mainly due to major external
shocks beyond its control, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated moderately
unsatisfactory for the reasons outlined above.

6. Lessons Learned

Project Design

89. EGTAG2 implementation shows that simple project design, with specific
objectives, aimed at feasible activities, is critical in a context of limited institutional
capacity. Counterparts‟ limited implementation and absorption capacity require focusing
Bank activities on a limited number of areas, with few procurement processes, and with a
view to achieving realistic targets determined by a sound understanding of country
context. In the case of EGTAG2, it would have been more realistic and effective to
identify strategic points of entry, rather than addressing the entire scope of public
financial management.

90. In addition to being more focused, EGTAG2 could have further explored
stronger coordination with critical ministries for PFM performance. Budgetary
systems can only see meaningful improvements if line ministries are actively involved



                                            24
and if their capacity has been strengthened. They also need to collaborate with the MEF
to achieve shared objectives. In Haiti, the Bank has the unique advantage of being able to
work extensively on projects at the sector level with line ministries while working at the
same time with the MEF. Greater coordination between the capacity building, conducted
through projects at sector level, and the design of Economic governance TA at the MEF
level could streamline performance. This opportunity to work with line ministries should
nonetheless be balanced with the need to limit the number of counterpart institutions.

91. In uncertain environments, project design could also include a higher degree of
flexibility to respond to external shocks. Despite the consolidation of the disbursement
categories into a single category through the 2009 restructuring, EGTAG2 design did not
effectively respond to the Government‟s changing needs in the post-earthquake context.
In this respect, making unallocated emergency reserve funding available could be
considered for future operations. Flexibility could also be obtained by combining a broad
PDO with specific objectives and project activities.

92. Linking budget support operations with technical assistance projects generates
both incentives and support for progress in the government reform agenda.
Providing technical assistance to the policy areas covered by budget support operations is
useful to ensure an adequate pace of reform implementation. In turn, programmatic
budget support operations are an incentive for the Government to achieve PDOs
supported by technical assistance projects.

93. During the project design phase, it is critical to discuss thoroughly all potential
alternatives. In the case of EGTAG2, the only alternative discussed in the PAD was a
larger, multi-year technical assistance grant. It would have been useful to consider other
options in order to identify potential pitfalls and to build a consensus on the most
appropriate solution.

94. Exploring options for implementation is also critical for project performance.
Implementation units with strong capacity are essential to successfully implement
projects. It is therefore important to scrutinize potential options in order to identify those
implementation arrangements that are most suited to the country context (specific
implementation unit, fiduciary agent, etc) and to propose corresponding mitigation
measures to enhance counterpart implementation capacity.

95. It is important to adequately sequence programmatic operations with a view to
avoiding conflicting overlaps in implementation periods between projects. EGTAG2
was presented to the Board only one year after EGTAG1, when disbursements had barely
commenced. As previously explained, this led to significant delays in the implementation
of EGTAG2, since priority was given to execute the funds in EGTAG1. Using the same
indicators made monitoring the project‟s respective achievements confusing, given the
overlap in implementation periods. Furthermore, the context changed when EGTAG2
became effective. It may have been more effective to launch the project later and
subsequently update the project design according to the new context and government
priorities.



                                             25
Project Implementation

96. Clear decision-making processes are essential to the success of project
implementation. In EGTAG2, the PCU ensured day-to-day coordination between the
numerous executing agencies, and monitored the advances in each component. However,
decision-making processes, with a unique counterpart for decisions on the substance of
the project, were not clearly defined until 2010. For example, the content of the first
restructuring was negotiated in a consensual manner through the PCU with each
implementing entity. This prevented the overall prioritization of the project‟s activities,
which could have ensured better implementation of the project.

97. Having field-based staff supervise projects is an important factor in the success
of a project in fragile states. In fragile state environments, Bank technical assistance
and capacity building activities require intense supervision to ensure smooth
implementation and compliance with fiduciary requirements. Field-based staff help
monitor day-to-day implementation and provide timely support to implementing agencies
and the PCU. They also facilitate dialogue with government counterparts on reform
agenda and emerging implementation issues.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

98. The MEF agrees with the overall findings of this ICR (see details Annex 7).

99. The MEF concurs with the Bank analysis regarding factors that negatively
affected project implementation.
 The MEF points out a series of external shocks: (i) the serious accident of the TTL in
    2010 and the subsequent vacancy of the TTL position, (ii) the departure of the
    administrative and financial specialist, (iii) the death of the Accountant during the
    earthquake and (iv) the murder of the project Coordinator.
 It also mentions structural issues such as: (i) the high number of activities of small
    amount, (ii) the large number of counterpart institutions, (iii) flaws in the monitoring
    and evaluation system, (iv) the overlap between the implementation periods of
    EGTAG1 and EGTAG2 and (iv) the amount of financing relative to the multiplicity
    of activities to be implemented and the necessity to respect specific procedures.
 These factors are consistent with those raised by the Bank to explain the limited
    achievements of the project. Lessons learned for the design of future operations can
    be drawn from the analysis of factors that affected project implementation.

100. The MEF regrets that the second restructuring initiative, which aimed to
streamline the project complex design and extend the implementation period, could
not be completed. According to the MEF, this restructuring would have contributed to
improve project implementation and achieve project development objectives. The MEF
underlines that the GoH supported this restructuring initiative and that the Bank seemed


                                            26
to be committed to carrying out the restructuring, following a mission of Government
representatives to Washington. Important activities could not been implemented due to
the Bank‟s decision not to restructure the project and extend its implementation period.

101. Bank management considered more relevant to explore new options for
providing support for economic governance instead of restructuring and extending
EGTAG2. Bank management decided not to accept the restructuring request, which had
been submitted to the Bank by the GoH in December 2011 and was pending Bank
management formal approval. In light of post-earthquake circumstances and the election
of a new government, Bank management considered more relevant to explore new
options for providing support to economic governance, which remains an important
priority. The CY12 ISN includes economic governance as a cross-cutting theme and
comprises several instruments to continue providing support to this important issue.

(b) Co-financiers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                          27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal
                                               Latest Estimate          Percentage of
         Components           Estimate (USD
                                               (USD millions)            Appraisal
                                 millions)

Component 1- Strengthening
Budget Formulation and                      1.320            0.268          20%
Execution
Component 2- Strengthening
                                            0.480            0.053          11%
Budget Monitoring and Control
Component 3 - Communication
                                            0.200            0.154          77%
and Project Management

             Total Baseline Cost            0.00             0.00
Physical Contingencies
                                            0.00             0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies
                                            0.00             0.00           0.00
               Total Project Costs          2.00             0.475          24%
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00             0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00             0.00            .00
       Total Financing Required             2.00             0.475          24%




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal     Latest
                                     Type of Co-     Estimate    Estimate Percentage
         Source of Funds
                                      financing        (USD        (USD    of Appraisal
                                                     millions)   millions)
Borrower                                           0.00        0.00        .00
IDA Grant                                          2.00        0.475       24%




                                           28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Outputs Component 1- Strengthening Budget Formulation and Execution

Intermediate outcomes indicators and Accomplishments of Component 1(As inferred
from the Restructuring Paper and presented in the ISRs)

Indicator                     Baseline            Target                  Status
Public Finance Reform         No Finance          Reform Agenda in        Not achieved.
Agenda                        Reform Agenda       place for Public        Existence of a joint government-IFIs matrix of
                                                  Finance                 Public Finance reforms.
                                                                          Institutional diagnosis of the MEF, including
                                                                          perspective of reform, drafted.
                                                                          Source: Bank’s assessment

Reports prepared by DGB       No regular          At least one report     Partially achieved
on debt levels (debt stock)   reporting on debt   per Haitian fiscal      Reports produced manually by the Directorate of
in order to inform the        levels              year (between 2009      Budget.
preparation of the annual                         and 2011)               Last data published on the MEF website dated
budget (between 2009 and                                                  November 2010
2011)                                                                     Source:
                                                                          http://www.mefhaiti.gouv.ht/dette%20public.htm

Number of ministries using    0                   9 out 17 at least use   Not achieved
the human resource‟s                              the human resources     The central HR registry has not been operational
registry                                          registry                since the earthquake
                                                                          Source: Bank’s assessment



Public Debt Management. Further to EGTAG1, EGTAG2 supported the
implementation of an updated public debt management system, including a centralized
database on debt (SYGADE). Both the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Central
Bank have access to the database, and the staff of both institutions have received training
in the use of the updated software. The newly centralized database could have helped the
Government produce detailed quarterly reports that reflect recent debt data for 2009.
However, the activity was suspended following the earthquake in 2010. As a
consequence, only one annual draft statistical report was prepared in October 2009.
Reports on the evolution of public debt are still produced manually by the Directorate of
Public Debt. Last debt data published on the MEF website is dated November 2010.

Human Resources Management. The first EGTAG1 project supported the Office for
Human Resources and Management (OMRH) through the design and implementation of
a central resource database of all salaried employees. The database was piloted in five
key ministries early in 2009. However, no progress has been made related to this activity
under EGTAG2. Since the earthquake, OMRH activity has been suspended. The database
is not yet operational.

Public Finance Management. A detailed analysis on the Haitian public finance system
has been produced by an external consultant. It includes several recommendations for
future public finance reforms.

Subsequent to the earthquake, the project provided technical assistance to help the
Government define a strategy for economic recovery that informed the Government‟s


                                                              29
Action Plan for Haiti Recovery (PARDH) presented at the Donor Conference in March
2010. This also helped the Government define budget priorities for FY 2011.

Finally, an institutional diagnosis and perspective for reform of the MEF has been drafted.

Public Procurement

Essential equipment and furniture was purchased after the earthquake in order to help the
CNMP re-initiate its operations.

Outputs Component 2- Strengthening Budget Monitoring and Control

Intermediate Outcomes Indicators and Accomplishments of Component 2 (As inferred
from the Restructuring Paper and presented in the ISRs)

Indicator             Baseline                   Target            Status
Organic law on the    Current Legal Framework    New Law sent to   Not Achieved: law is still in draft
Organization of the   for the CSC/CA is          Parliament for    form
CSC/CA                incomplete                 Approval          Source: Bank’s assessment

2 studies on          No studies on corruption   2 studies         Partially achieved
Corruption in two     in these sectors           published         One report completed at the end of
key sectors                                                        June 2011, not published
published by ULCC                                                  Source: Bank’s assessment



A workshop, jointly funded by EGTAG1 and EGTAG2, was organized at the end of
September 2009, in order to present and discuss a conceptual framework for the Supreme
Audit Institution and to lay the groundwork for the preparation of a new Law (Loi
organique) on the organization of the CSC/CA. The result of the workshop was the
collection of different points of view from participants and to bring awareness of the need
to prepare a new institutional framework for the CSC/CA, to clarify its role, its
attributions and its organizational structure. Although a draft law was drawn up by
external consultants, it has not been submitted to Parliament yet.

A study on corruption practices in private companies doing business with the public
sector was completed in June 2011. It could not be published before the closing date.

Finally, the Haitian IGF visited the French IGF. This mission allowed the Haitian IGF to
explore potential for collaboration and to analyze areas of improvement for its
organization, audit processes and techniques. Equipment was also purchased to facilitate
and improve the effectiveness of IGF‟s field audits.

Outputs Component 3- Communication and Project Management

Intermediate Outcomes Indicators and Accomplishments of Component 3


There were no intermediate results indicators related to Component Three.



                                                             30
Consistent with the objective to disseminate the contents of the Government‟s reform
program and to ensure wider ownership thereof among the public, a workshop was
organized by the UCP and the CNMP in March 2009. The public was thereby sensitized
to procedures related to public procurement.

Several measures were taken to improve project supervision. An assistant Accountant
was hired. A mid-term review workshop was organized in May 2010, and a mission,
including representatives of the MEF was conducted in November 2010 in order to
prepare a second restructuring of the project. The project supported the purchase of some
equipment to support the UCP and the beneficiaries‟ operations.

Jointly with the Infrastructure and Institutions Emergency Recovery Project, EGTAG2
supported the assessment of the counterpart institutions‟ needs for equipment and
furniture to reinitiate their operations.




                                           31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable. As an institution-building project, quantitative computations of rates of
return are not applicable.




                                            32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                   Responsibility/
         Names                         Title                Unit
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Franka Braun            Carbon Finance Specialist          ENVCF
Thomas Scott Brown      Junior Professional Associate      LCSPS
Linn A. Hammergren      TTL                                ECSP4
Luc Ladouceur           Consultant                         LCSPS
Patricia E. Macgowan    Consultant                         LCSPT
Maria Del Carmen Minoso Senior Operations Officer          ECSO1
Ahmadou Moustapha
                        Manager, Financial Management      ECSO3
Ndiaye
Milena Sanchez de Boado Consultant                         LCSPS
Benjamin Santa Maria    Consultant                         LCSPS

Supervision/ICR
                           Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.,
Alexandre Arrobbio                                         LCSPS
                           TTL
Christine de Mariz Rozeira Economist, TTL                  LCSPS
Ana Bellver Vazquez-       Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.,
                                                           LCSPS
Dodero                     TTL
Joseph Irvens Denis        Economist                       LCSPE
Stephanie Anne Kuttner     Consultant                      EASPR
Karla Soledad Lopez Flores Program Assistant               CSGAE
Patricia E. Macgowan       Consultant                      LCSPT
Carmen Machicado           Operations Officer              LCSPS
Maria Del Carmen Minoso Senior Operations Officer          ECSO1
                           Financial Management
Fabienne Mroczka                                           LCSFM
                           Specialis
Ahmadou Moustapha          Manager, Financial
                                                           ECSO3
Ndiaye                     Management
Vera Vanessa Paul          Junior Professional Associate   LCC3C
Benjamin Santa Maria       Consultant                      LCSPS
Atou Seck                  Sr Education Econ.              AFTED
                           Lead Financial Management
Fily Sissoko                                               AFTFM
                           Spec
Roberts Waddle             E T Consultant                  LCCHT
Yao Wottor                 Senior Procurement Specialist   LCSPT
Helene Torresan
                           E T Consultant                  LCSPS



                                        33
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                    25                      107.67
  FY07                                                              3.74
  FY08                                                              0.00

                          Total:          25                      111.41
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                              0.00
  FY07                                     8                       56.71
  FY08                                    10                       80.58
  FY09                                    22                       94.80
 FY10                                     38.65                   188.66
 FY11                                     27.79                   122.38
 FY12                                     19.68                    47.49

                          Total:        126.12                    590.62




                                       34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                      35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                     36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

I.- Généralités

Le Ministère de l‟Economie et des Finances accuse réception en date du 19 décembre 2011, du
Rapport de fin d‟exécution du projet EGTAG2 de la Banque Mondiale. Le Ministère prend acte
des commentaires de la Banque et de l‟insatisfaction exprimée.
Conformément à ces commentaires, le MEF reconnait avec la Banque la conjonction
d‟événements impondérables qui ont accompagné et perturbé la mise en œuvre des projets
EGTAG, dont quatre cyclones majeurs successifs et le séisme dévastateur du 12 janvier 2010.
Parallèlement à ces catastrophes naturelles perturbatrices, sont venus également s‟ajouter un
ensemble d‟évènements malheureux qui ont frappé le personnel de l‟Unité de Coordination de
Projets (UCP) chargée de la gestion des projets EGTAG. Nous rappelons : (i) l‟accident majeur
survenu en Haïti, du responsable du projet pour Washington et qui a laissé le projet EGTAG sans
TTL pendant six (6) mois ; (ii) l‟émigration au cours de cette période, du Responsable
Administratif et Financier de l‟UCP ; (iii) la mort tragique du Comptable de l‟Unité à l‟occasion
du séisme ; (iv) le brutal assassinat du Coordonateur de l‟UCP.
Ces pertes successives ont décimé le personnel technique déjà réduit de l‟UCP et composé alors
de quatre techniciens : le Coordonnateur, le Responsable en passation de marchés, le
Responsable Administratif et Financier et le Comptable. L‟Unité de Coordination de Projets
(UCP), chargée de la gestion des projets EGTAG a du continué a fonctionné pendant un certain
temps, sous la supervision du seul Responsable en passation de marchés, accompagné de
l‟Assistante Administrative de l‟Unité, et cela, en l‟absence également d‟un TTL à Washington.

II. Mise en œuvre du Projet GTAG II

Présentation et objectif du projet
Le Projet d‟Assistance Technique à la Gouvernance Economique (EGTAG II) était financé par le
Don H 2370 HA de la Banque Mondiale, d‟un montant de Deux millions de dollars sur deux ans
et dont la date de clôture était fixée au 30 juin 2011. Son objectif était de porter un appui aux
efforts du gouvernement haïtien en vue de renforcer la Gouvernance Economique du MEF ainsi
que sa capacité institutionnelle dans le domaine de la gestion des ressources dans le secteur public

Composantes et résultats du projet
Le Projet d‟Assistance Technique à la Gouvernance Economique (EGTAG II) était formé de
trois(3) composantes qui sont :
    1. Formation et Exécution du Budget,
    2. 2 : Contrôle du budget,
    3. 3 : Gestion du Projet et Communication,

Le projet a été approuvé en décembre 2006. Cependant, dans l‟attente de la finalisation d‟ETGAG
I à laquelle EGTAG II devait succéder, ce projet a effectivement démarré seulement à partir de
Mars 2009.
L‟exécution du projet EGTAG II s‟est alors déroulée normalement jusqu‟en juin 2010 où, à
l‟occasion d‟un atelier d‟évaluation conduite à Port-au-Prince, le responsable du Projet Mme.
Christine de Mariz, a eu un terrible accident et devait rester dans le coma durant 3 mois. Un
nouveau chef de projet sera désigné par la Banque Mondiale six (6) mois plus tard et le
décaissement du projet a alors enregistré une nette stagnation.




                                                37
Il a fallu donc faire avec les difficultés évoquées et travailler, dans un environnement social et
politique pas toujours favorable, au renforcement de l‟UCP et à la poursuite des objectifs des
différents projets en cours.
Des résolutions ont alors été prises pour améliorer la gestion de l’Unité et les perspectives de
décaissement :
      Mise en place d‟un nouveau responsable du projet à Washington ;
      Mise en place d‟un nouveau Coordonnateur à l‟UCP et embauche d‟un personnel
         complémentaire y compris de Consultants à court terme ;
      Proposition de reconversion des activités du projet et demande d‟extension de la date de
         fin du projet ;
      Reprogrammation des activités du projet.

III.- Résultats Obtenus
Nonobstant les difficultés impondérables majeures et conjoncturelles rencontrées, le MEF
reconnait une insatisfaction mitigée avec EGTAG I pour lequel on a dépensé 99% du budget
alloué et EGTAG II où seulement 28% du budget a été dépensé.
En dépit de cette insatisfaction, le MEF reconnait qu‟un ensemble d‟activités et d‟études ont été
réalisées qui laisse au MEF des outils disponibles qui constituent des acquis pour le renforcement
à court et à moyen terme de la Gouvernance Economique. Aussi, le Gouvernement Haïtien
continuera à compter sur l‟apport de la Banque Mondiale en vue de poursuivre la bataille engagée
pour la consolidation des acquis et le redressement économique du pays.
Au titre de ces activités, nous pouvons citer la liste non exhaustive des réalisations suivantes
obtenues dans les différentes Institutions citées :

1) Direction Générale du Budget (DGB) :
     Le renforcement et la consolidation SYSDEP ;
     Le Renforcement des capacités de gestion de la dette par le Ministère de l'Economie et des
        Finances (MEF) et la Banque de la République d'Haïti (BRH) à travers un contrat signé
        entre la CNUCED et le MEF.

La mise en œuvre de ce contrat a commencé fin 2008 et s'est poursuivie jusque fin 2009 selon le
calendrier établi avant d'être interrompue par les événements de 2010. Les principales activités
entreprises s'articulaient t autour de trois objectifs majeurs:
      La modernisation informatique de la Direction de la Dette Publique (DDP)
      Le renforcement des capacités de gestion de la dette
      L'optimisation du cadre institutionnel grâce à la création d'une interface entre le
         SYSDEP et le SYGADE.

Le tremblement de terre qui a eu lieu en janvier 2010 ainsi que ses conséquences tout au long de
l'année 2010 ont rendu impossible la poursuite des activités selon le calendrier établi. Aucune
activité n'a pu avoir lieu en 2010 et 2011.
Malgré la destruction du MEF suite au tremblement de terre, la base de données SYGADE a été
préservée et les gestionnaires de dette ont accès au système.

2) Inspection Générale des Finances (IGF) :
     Acquisition de fournitures, Impression et publication de brochures ;
     Voyages de formation;




                                               38
En l‟occurrence, formation des Inspecteurs et Cadres de l‟Inspection Générale des Finances (IGF)
sur les thèmes suivants :
      Méthodologie de la conduite d‟une mission d‟audit ;
      La maitrise des outils et techniques de conduite de l‟audit Interne ;
      La pratique de l‟Audit Interne dans le secteur Public ;


3) Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics (CNMP) :
     Loi sur la passation des marchés Publics
     Acquisition d‟ Equipments Informatiques

4) Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif (CSCCA) :
     Etudes pour l‟élaboration d‟une nouvelle loi visant : l‟Amélioration du cadre légal
       institutionnel (Préparation de la loi organique) et dissémination
     Plusieurs Programmes de formation conduits avec l‟assistance internationale Française;

5) Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement des Agents de la Fonction Publique
(CEFOPAFOP) :
     La réhabilitation du local du Centre ;
     Les Etudes pour la réalisation d‟une Médiathèque ;
     La mise en place d‟un laboratoire d‟Informatique

6) Unité de Lutte Contre la Corruption (ULCC) :
     Etude approfondie sur les pratiques de la corruption secteur public/secteur privé par
        Frédéric Gérald Chéry.

7) Office de Management et des Ressources Humaines (OMRH) :
     Poursuite de la mise-en œuvre du Fichier Central des ressources Humaines

8) Direction des Etudes Economiques (DEE) du MEF:
Suie au séisme du 12 janvier 2010 et dans le cadre de la préparation de la conférence des bailleurs
du 31 mars 2010 le Ministre de l‟Economie et des Finances a commandé dans le cadre du projet
EGTAG II, une analyse de la situation économique du pays. Cette mission confiée à un ensemble
d‟experts locaux et étrangers et à des cadres du Ministère de l‟Economie et des Finances et en
particulier à ceux de la Direction des Etudes Economiques (DEE) devrait permettre de :
     Conduire une évaluation de la situation macroéconomique récente du pays afin de cerner
         l‟impact de la catastrophe
     Mettre en relief les conséquences de cette nouvelle situation sur le plan sectoriel
     Faire ressortir le profond déséquilibre socio-spatial qui affecte l‟économie nationale
     Faire ressortir également l‟impact différencié de la catastrophe sur les unités
         économiques : micro, petites, moyennes et grandes entreprises
     Dégager une vision d‟ensemble du futur économique du pays qui doit se traduire par la
         formulation d‟une stratégie de reconstruction économique associée à une esquisse de
         réformes économiques structurelles.
    - L‟UCP a également signé un contrat avec Mr Jean Robert Joseph dans le cadre du projet
         de préparation d‟une esquisse de plan de reconstruction et de réorientation de l‟économie
         haïtienne. Cette consultation représente un traitement des données d‟enquêtes en appui au
         Projet de Recapitalisation des Commerçants victimes du Séisme du 12 Janvier 2010.



                                                39
    -   Dans ce même ordre d‟idées, un contrat a été signé avec Jacques Hendry Rousseau et
        Emmanuel Charles pour effectuer une enquête portant sur les impacts du séisme et le
        profil sociodémographique et économique des sinistrés.

    -   Un contrat a également été établi avec Ibrahim Sar qui portait sur l‟assistance en matière
        de restauration du système de gouvernance économique. Il s‟inscrit dans le cadre du volet
        finances publiques, constitue une analyse du système de gestion des finances publiques,
        et préconise des recommandations permettant de renforcer significativement le cadre
        budgétaire et financier, pour répondre aux préoccupations des autorités haïtiennes et des
        partenaires au développement.

    -   Un contrat a également été signé avec le consultant Charles Cadet comme Conseiller
        Technique Spécial pour la seconde phase opérationnelle du projet de Stratégie
        Economique Intégré pour Haïti

9) Les Organisations de la Société Civile (OSC) :
     Divers rapports de suivi

IV.- Activités non réalisées
Nous déplorons également des activités non réalisées et qui restent d‟importance dans la
perspective de nouveaux engagements à prendre avec la Banque Mondiale.
Nous rappelons à ce titre, diverses activités programmées avec l‟ULCC, dont :
     L‟organisation de forum jeunesse sur la problématique de la corruption ;
     La mise en place de mécanismes de comités d‟éthique ;
     La conduite de recherches scientifiques sur l‟étendue de la corruption :
        a) dans les administrations fiscales et douanières ; b) dans le secteur judiciaire.
Nous voulons citer également la Programmation faite avec le nouveau TTL, monsieur Alexandre
Arrobio et qui visait, conformément au tableau joint, à :
     Etendre la période d‟exécution du projet d‟un an, jusqu‟au 30 juin 2012.
     Prioriser et limiter les activités d‟EGTAG et réallouer le budget associé.
     Modifier les indicateurs liés aux objectifs de développement et aux résultats
        intermédiaires.

En particulier, cette reprogrammation et priorisation des activités devraient permettre de réduire
de 45 à 33 environ le nombre de processus de marchés publics d‟EGTAG II, y compris les 25
contrats déjà signés. Les nouveaux contrats se concentreraient sur trois institutions bénéficiaires,
au lieu de douze dans la version initiale du plan de passation de marchés.

                Tableau 1 - Proposition de nouvelle répartition du budget d’EGTAG2

                                     Activités                                           Budget
                                                                                         (USD)
 Appui aux missions et au renforcement de la capacité technique de l‟Inspection            450 000
 Générale des Finances
 Appui au renforcement du système comptable, de contrôle et d‟audit des                    450 000
 opérations de l‟EDH
 Appui à l‟introduction d‟une approche budgétaire programmatique au niveau                 180 000
 sectoriel
 Autres activités                                                                          920 000



                                                 40
 Total                                                                                  2 000 000


Nous déplorons également à ce titre, l'engagement formel pris par la Banque suite à la mission
d'une importante délégation du MEF à Washington pour une meilleure visibilité du projet et
soutenir le nouveau chef d'équipe engagé dans la nécessaire reformulation du projet et, le rejet
brusque par la Banque de cet engagement, contre toute attente et sans aucune justification.

Ce brusque revirement a notamment fait passer à néant toutes ces importantes et nouvelles
projections de décaissement faites. Cela a, en particulier, largement perturbé les activités
projetées par l‟ULCC qui s‟en est lourdement plaint auprès de l‟UCP et du MEF.

V.- Difficultés d’ordre Structurel
L‟insatisfaction exprimée quant à l‟exécution du projet EGTAG II découle certes de beaucoup de
facteurs impondérables, mais, dans la perspective de nouveaux engagements à prendre avec la
Banque, le MEF tient également à souligner certaines difficultés d’ordre Structurel, comme
par exemple :
     la nature des activités du projet réparties en de multiples Assistance techniques a entrainé
        également la répétition de multiples activités mais génératrices de faibles décaissements.
        Ce projet était essentiellement marque par de petits contrats.
     Douze (12) Institutions bénéficiaient en effet des activités projetées au titre des 3
        Composantes de ce projet d‟un montant total de seulement 2 millions de dollars.
     Le mode de choix des Indicateurs sans consultation avec les Ministères exécutants ;
     Ligne de base établie seulement au moment de l‟Evaluation à moyen terme du projet.
     Chevauchement des projets EGTAG : EGTAG II a débuté alors que EGTAG I était dans
        sa phase terminale.
     Le niveau du budget par rapport aux délais d‟exécution, compte tenu de la multiplicité
        des actions à réaliser et la nécessité de respecter les procédures pour la mise en œuvre de
        ces activités.

Finalisation du projet

    La Banque Mondiale n‟ayant pas approuvé la proposition de reconversion adéquate des
    activités à mettre en œuvre pour atteindre les objectifs fixés et qui devait s‟accompagner
    d‟une extension de la date de clôture du projet, l‟UCP a dû mettre fin aux activités
    d‟EGTAG II à la date de clôture initialement prévue, soit le 30 juin 2011.

    Les dépenses au 30 juin 2011 ont alors atteint 28% du total du budget. Du total des fonds déjà
    disponibles et qui ont été transférés par la Banque Mondiale pour la réalisation des activités
    prévues, le montant non dépensé dans le cadre du projet EGTAG II devra être remboursé à la
    Banque Mondiale.




                                                41
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                      42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Haiti (Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation). 2007. Document
de Stratégie Nationale pour la Croissance et pour la Reduction de la Pauvreté 2008-
2010 (Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper). Haiti, November 2007

World Bank. 2006. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant to the Republic of
Haiti for a Second Economic Governance Technical Assistance Project, Report No:
35909-HT. Washington: DC.

World Bank. 2007. Financing Agreement, (Second Economic Governance Technical
Assistance Project) between Republic of Haiti and International Development
Association, dated April 27, 2007. Washington: DC.

World Bank. 2009. First Amendment to Financing Agreement, dated November 17, 2009.
Washington: DC

World Bank/Quality Assurance Group. 2008. Review of Public Sector Governance
Guidance Framework. Washington: DC.

World Bank. 2009. Restructuring Paper, Report No: 51209. Washington: DC

World Bank. 2008. Haiti: Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability
Review, A World Bank Country Study No. 44651. Washington: DC

World Bank. 2009. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Haiti for the Period
FY09-12, Report No 48284-HT. Washington: DC.

World Bank. 2004. Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Haiti, Report No
30541-HT. Washington: DC.

World Bank. 2009. Program Document for a Proposed Grant to the Republic of Haiti for
a Third Economic Governance Reform Operation (EGROIII), Report No 49499-HT.
Washington: DC.

World Bank. 2006-2011. Project Supervision Documents including aide-memoires,
implementation status reports, requests for no-objection, audit reports, interim financial
reports, and deliverables. WBdoc.




                                           43
                                                                                                                                                 73°W                                                                                           72°W
                                   HA I T I                                                                                                                    AT LA NT IC                                       OCE AN                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank

                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                            Île de la Tortue                                                                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                Palmiste
                                  DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                              20°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20°N
                                                                                                                                                 Port-de-Paix




                                                                                                        e
                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                     ag
                                                                                                   ss
                                  RIVERS




                                                                                               Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To




                                                                                               d
                                  MAIN ROADS                                                                                         OUEST
                                                                                                                              NORD - OUE ST                                                                                                                                          Monte




                                                                                                                                                           Les
                                                                                                          Môle St.-Nicolas




                                                                                           ar




                                                                                                                                                            e
                                                                                                                                                            e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Christi




                                                                                          dw




                                                                                                                                                              Tro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cap-Haitien




                                                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                                                                               r i
                                  RAILROADS




                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                      in
                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                              Limbé
                                  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                         Gros-Morne                                                                       Fort-Liberte                                           To
                                                                                                                                Baie de
                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORD                                                                                       Santiago
                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                     Trou-                  Ferrier
                                                                                                                                Henne                                                                      Grande Rivière                     du-Nord
                                                                                                                                                                                                                du Nord

                                                                      74°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ennery                           Saint-       NOR D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORD - EST
                                                                                                                                                                             Gonaives                                               Raphaël
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Saint Michel




                                                                                                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                                                                          n                           de l'Attalaye




                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                              tr




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Gu
                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                            Golfe de                                               a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 aya
                                                                                                                                                                                                       l




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    mp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m
                                                                                                                                           la Gonâve                                                       Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       uo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      at
                                                                                                                                                                       ARTIBONITE                                          ea         Maïssade
                                                    HAITI                                                                                                                                                                       u                       Hinche


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DOM I N I CAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                   Verrettes               on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CENTRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                      tttiii
                                                                                                                                                                                                           b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lac de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Péligre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R E PUB L I C
                                                                                                                                                 La Cayenne
                                                                                                                                       Île de
                                                                                                                                    la Gonâve             Anse-à-Galets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mirebalais                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           San Juan
                                                                                                                             Pointe-à-Raquette


                                                                                           Grande
                                                                  Jeremie                 Cayemite
                                                                        Roseaux                                                                                                                                                 Croix des
                                                                                                                                                                             PORT-AU-PRINCE                                     Bouquets
                                                    GRANDE-
                      Anse d'Hainault                ANSE                                                                                                                       Léogâne                                                  Étang                                        Lago                 To
                                                       f de la Ho
                                                                  tte                                            NIPPES                                                                                    OUEST                        Saumâtre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Enriquillo          Barahona
                                                 Massi                                                                           Miragoâne
                                                                                                                                  Miragoâne
                                                                                                                                                              Petit-
                                                                                                                                                              Goâve                                                                     Chaine de la Selle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2680 m )
                                                        Les Anglais   Camp-Perrin                  SUD
                                                                                                                             Vieux Bourg
                                                                                                                                d'Aquin
                                                                                                                                                                                           SUD - EST                                           Belle-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Anse         Thiotte
                                                                                                                                                                                          Jacmel
                                                                                                                                                   Côtes-de-fer                                                Marigot
                                                                                               Les Cayes


                                                                      Port-Salut
                                                                                                   Île à Vache
               18°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 33417R
JANUARY 2006




                       0     10        20   30    40 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                         Caribbean                            Sea                                                                                                                          Oviedo

                       0          10         20        30 Miles
                                                                      74°W                                                                       73°W                                                                                           72°W
