Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H237-0-HA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Economic Governance Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 27, 2007
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H237-0-HA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated April 27, 2007, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II —FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,400,000) 
(
“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through UCP in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months 
after the Association’s approval of the 
Grant which expire on December 20, 2007. 
 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister
 
of
Economy and Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances 
Palais des Ministères 
204  rue Monseigneur Guilloux  
Port-au-Prince 
Republic of Haiti 
Facsimile: 
 
    (509) 
299 
17 
42/43 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
By /s/ Leon Charles 
Authorized Representative
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in strengthening further its 
institutional capacity in the area of public sector resource management and achieving 
improved responsiveness to its citizens’ needs and demands. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Financial Resource Management
1.1. 
The carrying out, through the provision of technical advisory services, equipment 
and training programs for selected staff of MEF and the Executing Agencies of: 
(a) follow up activities in respect of the design and implementation of basic 
budgetary procedures and functions, including in a program-oriented and results-
linked format; and (b) an evaluation of the initial results of the new budgetary 
procedures. 
1.2. 
The implementation of, and further adjustment to, the plan for the improvement 
of CSCCA’s performance as an ex-post public auditing body. 
1.3. 
The provision of support for the operation of the CNMP, including through 
reinforced institution-building, the development of training programs in 
standardized procurement procedures for sector procurement staff and the 
subsequent elaboration of related standardized documents. 
Part 2
:
Human Resource Development
Further advancing the Recipient’s capacity to develop its human resource base 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training and the 
acquisition of equipment for: 
2.1. 
(a) the assessment and continued implementation of the Recipient’s legal 
framework on civil service and central administration organization; and (b) the 
development of procedures for personnel selection, performance evaluation and 
incentive structures in relation thereto; 
2.2. 
(a) the building of capacity in human resource management information for the 
HRU/BPM to enable it to monitor human resource needs, policy and programs; 
(b) the development of working relations between the HRU/BPM and sector 
human resource departments, including those leading to their strengthening; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(c) the provision of assistance by HRU/BPM to other agencies in developing 
plans to meet current and future personnel requirements, including through the 
use of information and communication technology tools for, 
inter alia
,
the 
creation of a single public employees’ database and a uniform set of personnel 
records; and 
2.3. 
the building of institutional capacity for human resources management in BPM 
and human resources offices of other selected Recipient’s public agencies with a 
view to assist in the design and spearheading of a longer-term civil service 
reform. 
Part 3
:
Development of MEF Capacity for Strategic Monitoring of Sector Policy through
Sector Ministries’ Tracking of Service Delivery
Developing MEF and MPCE’s capacity for strategic monitoring of sector outputs 
and policy through: 
3.1. 
the provision of support specifically for the office of economic studies of MEF to 
assist in creating methodologies for linking recurrent and investment budgets to 
ensure order in government priorities; 
3.2. 
the identification of Selected Agencies to participate in pilot assessments of their 
current practices, needs and capabilities in monitoring civil service delivery; and 
3.3. 
the provision of technical advisory services and equipment for the development 
of procedures for tracking service delivery in the Selected Agencies. 
Part 4:
Anti-corruption and Civil Society Engagement
Continue strengthening transparency of all public transactions and operations 
through: 
4.1. 
the further enhancement of ULCC’s capacity for anti-corruption programming, 
detection and sanctioning, including through the continuance of the preparation 
of a modernized legal framework in relation thereto; and 
4.2. 
the provision of training to improve the performance of the mechanisms for 
monitoring economic governance by civil society. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Part 5
:
Communication, Donor Coordination and Project Management
Ensuring optimal efficiency of Project implementation through the provision of 
continued support to UCP for further implementation of: (a) communication mechanisms 
and strategies needed to disseminate the contents of the Recipient’s reform program and 
ensure wider ownership thereof among the public; (b) Donor coordination activities in the 
economic governance area; and (c) management, coordination and monitoring activities 
in respect of the Project, including through the organization of meetings of Project-
responsible staff of Executing Agencies. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project, a Project 
coordinating unit (UCP):  
(i) 
with staff: (A) adequate in numbers and with functions and 
resources at all times satisfactory to the Association; including a 
director, a financial management specialist and a procurement
 
specialist, all to be selected, whenever needed during Project 
implementation, in accordance with the provisions of Section III 
of this Schedule; and (B) whose respective employment 
contracts may only be terminated in consultation with and after 
approval of the Association; 
(ii) 
responsible for the effective implementation of the Project, 
including procurement, financial management, audit, and 
monitoring and evaluation in relation thereto; and 
(iii) 
under the administrative authority, and subject to the monitoring 
and supervision, of MEF to which it will report on a semi-annual 
basis; and 
(b) 
ensure that UCP, through MEF, submits annual Project work plans and 
budgets to the Association for its review and approval. 
2. 
The Recipient shall establish for purposes of the Project, and maintain throughout 
Project implementation, a coordinating body (
Comité de Suivi)
 responsible for 
Project oversight and coordination, comprising representatives of UCP and all 
Executing Agencies, as further set forth in the MEP. 
 
B. Implementation 
Documents 
1.
 
(a)
 
The Recipient shall maintain the Project implementation manual (MEP)
 
dated December 15, 2005, found satisfactory in form and substance to 
Page  9
-
8
-
the Association,
 
and setting forth therein the rules, methods, guidelines, 
standard documents and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, 
including the following: 
 
(i) 
the Project administrative, disbursement, procurement, auditing, 
reporting and financial procedures including standard bidding 
documents in relation thereto; 
 
(ii) 
the plan for the evaluation, monitoring, and supervision of the 
Project;  
 
(iii) 
the detailed description of Project activities and their sequencing 
and the institutional arrangements in respect thereof; and 
 
(iv) 
the Performance Indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain the MEP throughout Project 
implementation; (ii) take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Project is carried out in conformity with the MEP; and (iii) amend the 
MEP, from time to time, only 
with the Association’s prior written 
consent. 
 
(c) 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the MEP and any 
one under this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
C. 
Other Implementation Arrangements: 
1. 
For purposes of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall, 
through UCP and not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, appoint in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, an 
independent auditor acceptable to the Association, with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
Not later than three (3) months
 
after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall 
ensure that UCP carries out an action plan agreed with the Association for the 
strengthening of its financial management system for the Project. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient, through UCP, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the 
Association. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
Page  10
-
9
-
and shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after 
the end of the period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than January 15, 2010. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall, through UCP, maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall, 
through UCP, prepare and furnish to the Association, as part of the Project 
Report and not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient, through UCP shall, for purposes of Section I.C.1 of this 
Agreement, have the Financial Statements for the Project audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of 
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than four months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  11
-
10
-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to using 
standard bidding documents agreed with the Association. 
(b) Shopping, subject to using standard request for 
quotations agreed with the Association. 
(c) Direct Contracting, subject to the Association’s prior 
consent. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection, subject to the Association’s 
prior written consent  
(f) Selection of Individual Consultants 
Page  12
-
11
-
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association 
may specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant Financing to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant  
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR
)
Percentage of  
Expenditures to be  
Financed
(1) Goods and equipment 
 
255,500 
100% 
(2) Consultants’ services, 
including training  
 1,067,500 
100% 
(3) Operating Costs 
 
35,000 
100% 
(4) Unallocated 
 
42,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 1,400,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  13
-
12
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1.  
“BPM” means 
Bureau du Premier Ministre
,
the Recipient’s prime minister’s 
office.  
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. “CNMP” 
means 
Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics,
 the Recipient’s 
National Commission for Public Procurement established and operating pursuant 
to 
décret
 
of
the Recipient dated December 03, 2004.
 
4. 
“
Comité de Suivi
”
means the coordinating body referred to in Section I.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
5. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
6. “CSCCA” 
means 
Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif, 
the  supreme administrative court responsable for ex-post audits of  the 
Recipient’s public institutions. 
7. 
“Dollar” and “USD” mean the lawful currency of the United States of America. 
8. 
 “Donor” means any country, bilateral or multilateral agency, public or private 
financial institution, development finance institution or international 
organization, which is proposing to make, or has made, financing available to the 
Recipient on a grant basis or under concessional terms to support a development 
program of the Recipient. 
9. 
“Executing Agency”, in the singular form, means either one among MEF, 
MPCE, CSCCA, CNMP, HRU/BPM, ULCC and 
Comité de Suivi
 (all as herein 
defined), each responsible for implementing or assisting in the implementation of 
selected activities under the Project, and, in the plural form, all of said entities 
considered jointly. 
10.  
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
11. 
“HRU/BPM” means Human Resources Unit, a unit of the Recipient currently 
located in BPM and responsible for overseeing human resource policy for the 
public sector. 
Page  14
-
13
-
12. 
“MEF” means 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
,
the Recipient’s Ministry 
of Economy and Finance. 
13. “MEP” 
means 
Manuel d’Execution du Projet
,
the Project implementation manual 
referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement dated December 15, 
2005. 
14. 
“MPCE” means 
Ministère du Plan et de la Coopération Externe
,
the Recipient’s 
Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation and, for purposes of Part 3 of this 
Project, the 
direction de l’évaluation et du contrôle
 within said ministry. 
15. 
“Operating Costs” means, in respect of Category 3. of the table in Section 
IV.A(2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, 
vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office 
administration costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs and salaries 
of locally contracted employees. 
16. 
“Performance Indicators” means the results indicators of Project implementation 
referred to in Section I.B.(iv) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project 
dated May 10, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
19. 
“Selected Agency” means a public sector agency of the Recipient, found eligible 
to participate in the pilot service monitoring activities set forth under Part 3 of the 
Project, in accordance with the rules and criteria specified in the MEP. 
20. 
 “Training” means, in respect of Category 2 of the table in Section IV.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (a) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem 
expenditures as incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training 
and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility 
rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses. 
21. “UCP” 
means 
Unité de Coordination du Projet
,
the Project coordinating unit 
established in MEF and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
22. 
“ULCC” means 
Unité de Lutte Contre la Corruption
,
a
unit of MEF responsible 
for coordinating anticorruption activities in public transactions.
Page  15
-
14
-
