                                                                                                    94059
Backing Haiti’s Reforms of Economic Governance                                                      April 16, 2012




 Enhancing Budget Formulation, Execution, Monitoring and Control in
 Haiti


Overview
The project aimed at supporting the Government of the Republic of Haiti in strengthening
economic governance – and, in particular, budget management – including budget formulation,
execution, and control. The project provided technical assistance related to budget reform, debt
management systems, human resource management, and public procurement. A series of
external shocks, including the devastating 2010 earthquake, affected project implementation,
and limited its achievements.


Challenge
In the middle of the last decade, Haiti recognized that it
                                                                   More Results
needed to strengthen its economic governance to make the
best use of its own resources as well as those provided by

                                                                   US$2
external donors. The government viewed this as essential to
promoting economic recovery, boosting long-term growth,
and to setting Haiti on a path toward meeting the Millennium

                                                                   million
Development Goals (MDGs). While the government had
undertaken important governance reforms since 2004, in
particular to improve the regulatory framework of public
                                                                   to the Republic of Hait was
finance management, much remained to be done to increase           provided by IDA
the overall transparency and efficiency of public resources.
This implied further strengthening the effectiveness of budget
preparation and execution and improving control and
monitoring mechanisms.                                            LEARN MORE

                                                                    Second Economic Governance
                                                                    Technical Assistance Project
Approach                                                            (Bank approval: 20 June 2006,
                                                                    Closing Date: 30 June 2011)
When the International Development Association (IDA)
approved the Second Economic Governance Technical
Assistance Project in 2006, its objectives and activities
reflected the government’s own goals and were aligned with
the 2004 Bank Transitional Support Strategy for Haiti.
Additionally, this project complemented other donors’ support for Haiti in the area of economic
governance.


Results
The main expected outcomes of the Second Economic Governance Technical Assistance
Project were: (i) improved comprehensiveness of budget information and documentation, (ii)
improved use of competition in award of public contracts, (iii) improved timeliness of
submission of audit reports to legislature, and (iv) increased understanding of corruption
practices. A series of external shocks, including the 2010 earthquake, ensured that although
advances were made by the Government of Haiti in budget formulation, execution, the project
did not achieve its expected outcomes.


Bank Contribution
IDA provided a US$2 million grant to the Republic of Haiti.


Partners
The project was framed within the Haitian government’s own development priorities, as
articulated in the Interim Cooperation Framework. This document was prepared in 2004 by the
Government in coordination with the donor community in order to guide future reforms. There
was strong donor harmonization in the preparation of the operation, which was undertaken in
close collaboration with other donor agencies active in the area of economic governance, such
as the Inter-American Development Bank, the U.S. Agency for International Development, the
European Union, and the International Monetary Fund. An economic governance group led by
the Government of Haiti helped coordinate donor work and ensure that it met government
priorities.


Moving Forward
While there will not be any direct follow-up operation to this project, the Bank has explored
new options for providing support to economic governance, which remains an important priority
in Haiti. The 2012 Interim Strategy Note for Haiti includes economic governance as a cross-
cutting theme and comprises several instruments to continue supporting this important issue.


Beneficiaries
The intended beneficiaries were the Haitian citizens through a better Public Financial
Management by Government of scarce public resources, as well as better service delivery
resulting from more effective and transparent Public Procurement.
