Report No. 673a-HA
Haiti: Appraisal of a                                                       FILE COPY
Fourth Highway Project
May 21, 1975
Latin America and Caribbean
Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only bv the Bank Group It may not
be published, quoted or cited. without Bank Group authonzation The Bank Group does
not accept responsiblhty for the accuracy or completeness of the report



Currency Equivalents
US$1             =   $. 5.00
A. 1.0               TUS$0 .20
j. 1 million    =      JS$200,000
Weights and Measures:           Metric
:'etric                         Rritish/US Equivalent
1 meter (n)                     3.28 feet (ft)
1 'ilometer ('Im)               0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (,o,i2)  =   0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)       =    2,204 pounds (lb)
Fiscal Year
October 1 to September 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Ban,,.
TTCA      -  Institut Interamerican des Sciences Agricoles de l'O1F
O1DBG     -  Organisation de Developpement de la Plaine de r}onaives
ODVA      -  Organisation de Developpement de la Vallee d'Artibonite
SEPRP,T    -  Service dfEntretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National
TPTC      -  Secretairerie d'Etat des Travaux Publics, Transport et
Communications
TRDP     _-  United Nations Development Program
USAID     -  UTnited States Agency for International DeveloDment



liAITI
APPPISAL OF A FOURTH HIG11WAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUM.MUARY AND CONCLUSIONS                 .............................. i-ii
1.  INTRODUCTION ........................1......... I......    1
2.   RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                         2
3.   RECENT DEVELOPIENTS IN THE iIICHUWAY SUBSECTOR                      3
A.   The Highway Network and Its Traffic ..                         3
B.   Highway Financing ....................................    4
C.   Highway  Planning        ............................,..       5
D.   Highway Construction ...........................fi..           5
E.   Highway Maintenance ............................               6
4. THE PROJECT.                                                           7
A. General Description.                                             7
B.   Reconstruction of the Northern Road.                           7
C.   Design and Construction of a New Bridge at Sonde               8
D.   Technical Assistance                                           8
E.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements.                   9
F.   Execution ........................                            11
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION.                                                 12
A. General ..........                                              12
B.   Reconstruction of the Northern Road.                           4
C. Technical Assistance .16
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMFIENDATION .....................   17
TABLES
1.   Highway Expenditures 1972-1974
2.   Estimates of Expenditures and Budgetary Allocations for Highway
Construction and Maintenance for Fiscal Years 1975-1978
3.   Road User Charges 1969-1974
4.   Details of Proposed Civil Works
This appraisal report has been prepared by M'essrs. J. Varallyay fengineer)
and C-H. Mumme (economist), and has been edited byv Mtiss V. Foster.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
TABLES (Cont'd)
5.   Design Standards for Northern Road
6.   Disbursement Schedule
7.   Growth of Principal Towns along Northern Road
8.   Actual and Estimated Agricultural Production - Plain of Gonaives
9.   Actual and Estimated Agricultural Production - Area North of Estere
10.   Average Daily Traffic Forecasts for Northern Road 1978-1997
11.   Vehicle Operating Costs on the Northern Road
12.   Sensitivity Analyses of Economic Return
ANNEX
Technical Assistance to the Domestic Contracting Industry
MAPS
Haiti - Proposed Road Project - IBRD 11482
Sketch Map of Bridge Crossings on Artibonite Plain



HAITI
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHTNWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.       A substantial part of the economic activity in Haiti is centered
around Port-au-Prince, the capital, and along the road -- the Northern
Road -- which connects the capital with Cap Haitien, the second largest town
in the country; specifically this Northern Road serves the Artibonite Plain
(the richest agricultural area in Haiti), the Gonaives Plain and the Northern
Plain, south of Cap Haitien. As a result of years of neglect, the Northern
Road fell into disrepair, and its reconstruction, and that of the other prin-
cipal routes, has in recent years become urgent. Following a UNDP-financed
feasibility study and detailed engineering, the Association extended a Credit
of US$10 million in 1974 (Cr. 478-HA) to help start reconstruction of the
road. The Bank Group had already been involved in the highway sector in Haiti
on two previous occasions (1956 and 1962), and Credit 478-HA marked, there-
fore, the re-entry of the Group Into the transportation sector in Haiti.
Because of substantial bid overruns, reconstruction under the Third Project
was reduced from about 150 km to about 80 km, i.e., to about one-third of
its total length of 250 km. The reconstruction is now in hand and progress-
ing satisfactorily. Under a UNDP-financed element of the Third Highway Proj-
ect, technical assistance is being provided for transport planning, organiza-
tional restructuring of the Ministry of Public Works and development of the
domestic civil works industry.
ii.      Transportation and agriculture still remain the two dominant areas
of public investment in Haiti, and the Government has requested the Associa-
tion to continue participating in reconstruction of the Northern Road. The
main item of this proposed project comprises, therefore, reconstruction of
those sections, totalling 170 km, not included in the Third Project. The
works also include construction of a new bridge over the Artibonite River --
the largest waterway on the Northern Road -- close to the existing bridge,
which is almost 100 years old. A crossing over the Artibonite is crucial
for the northern half of the country since the Northern Road is currently
the only practicable land access between the northern part and the capital.
If the existing bridge were to collapse without a new bridge being in place,
the results would be disastrous for the economy.
iii.      Fu'therjnore, the project includes an element of technical assistance
to continue the transport planning process by focusing explicitly on individual
project planni-ng and design; the projects will be identified as part of the
transport study being carried out under the Third Project-.  The technical
assistance element will also continue practical assistance to the domestic
Construction industry.
iv.       The project will take about two and one-half years to complete,
and execution wi bl he the responsibility of the Secretairie d?Etat des
Travaux Publics, Transport et Communications (TPTC), the Ministry of Public



- ii -
Works. Consultants contracted under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank will assist in prequalifying bidders and evaluiating bids and will
supervise construction. Construction contracts will be awarded on a unit
price basis after international competitive bidding, following usual Bank
Group procedures. Consulting services for technical assistance in the areas
mentioned above will also be procured on terms and contract conditions
acceptable to the Association.
v.        Improvement in the condition of the road should generate agricul-
tural development, particularly in the Gonaives Plain and the Artibonite
Valley; it should also generate development in tourism along the whole length
of the road. Major quantifiable benefits will arise from the proposed proj-
ect, as in the case of the Third Highway Project, from savings in vehicle
operating costs, including those from the generated traffic, and from savings
in road maintenance costs. Since the road transport industry is competitive,
a major portion of the benefits will likely be passed on to farmers, manu-
facturers, passengers and, ultimately, to consumers. The economic return on
investment in reconstruction (which represents about 97% of the estimated
project cost) varies from about 26% to 35%, depending on the assumption made
regarding the remaining life of the existing Sonde Bridge. Sensitivity
analyses indicate that, even with significant cost increases and benefit
decreases, the project remains justifiable. Non-quantifiable benefits in-
clude the important socio-political effect of integrating the second largest
town, Cap Haitien, more closely with the rest of the country and the capital
than it is at present.
vi.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$26.3 million, with
an estimated foreign exchange component of US$20 million, the latter recom-
mended for financing by the proposed Credit. Appropriate contingencies for
increases in quantity and price escalation are included. A sum of US$100,000
is recommended for retroactive financing from the Credit to cover the foreign
exchange costs of the engineering for the new Sonde Bridge and of the pavement
reevaluation.
vii.      The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$20
million on the standard conditions for IDA Credits.



HAITI
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Haiti has requested IDA assistance to help finance
completion of reconstruction of the Northern Road. The project will comprise
(a) reconstruction of about 170 km of the road, including a new bridge over
the Artibonite River; (b) design and supervision of item (a); and (c) techni-
cal assistance for preparation of future projects in the transport sector
and for further assistance to the domestic civil works industry.  The project
is expected to cost US$26.3 million equivalent: the foreign exchange compo-
nent, US$20.0 million, is proposed for financing through an IDA credit, and
the balance of US$6.3 million in loc7al currency will be provided by the
Govermnent.
1.02      The proposed project complements the Third Highway Project (Credit
478-HA, US$10 million, June 1974). During preparation of the Third Project,
it was envisaged to finance urgent reconstruction of the 250 km of road
between Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien. Subsequently, due to the limited
availability of IDA funds, the project was reformulated during appraisal to
include only 150 km of road. Because bids were appreciably higher than
estimated, the project was later reduced, by agreement between the Government
and the Association, to include only some 80 km of road, limited to those
sections most urgently in need of reconstruction.
1.03      The proposed project arises, as did the Third Highway Project, from
the UNDP-financed feasibility studies and detailed engineering carried out
for the whole length of the Northern Road by INGEROUTE (France) in 1972/73.
The major element of the proposed project will be reconstruction of those
lengths of the road, totalling about 170 km, not included in the Third Project.
The other elements will comprise (a) construction of a new bridge over the
Artibonite River adjacent to the existing aging bridge as an "insurance"
against the economic damage that would result to the country if the existing
bridge were to collapse without a replacement being available, and (b) a tech-
nical assistance element for project preparation and for continuing institu-
tional improvements started under the Third Project, both in Government and in
the private sector.
1.04      Progress to date under the ammended Third Project is encouraging:
(a) a vital bridge, over the Estere River in the Artibonite Plain, has been
constructed, replacing an old metal bridge which had partially collapsed; (b)
the main civil works have been contracted and are under way; and (c) the con-
sultants for the technical assistance have been contracted and started in
the field in April 1975.  Additionally, road maintenance -- a matter of
grave concern for all agencies involved in the transport sector in Haiti --
has begun to improve.



- 2 -
1.05      This appraisal is therefore essentially an updating of that carried
out in 1974 in connection with the Third Highway Project, and, in effect, up-
dates the report (May 1974) relating to that project. It is based on the
findings of a mission comprising Messrs. J. Varallyay (Engineer) and C.H.
Mumme (Economist), which visited Haiti in December 1974. The report has been
edited by Miss V. Foster.
2. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
2.01      Road transport continues to be the dominant transport mode, and
this dominance is being reinforced by the substantial road construction and
rehabilitation program which has started within the last nine months (para.
3.01). In aviation, 1974 marked the re-entry into the domestic market of
COHATA (Haitien Air Transport), and domestic services are being provided
through this firm's subsidiary, Haiti Air-Inter; both companies are wholly
owned by the Government. Haiti Air-Inter, in turn, has subcontracted domestic
services between Port-au-Prince, Cap Xaitien, Port-de-Paix, Jacmel and Les
Cayes. Movement by air, both of passenger and freight, remains extremely low,
and internal aviation poses no threat to road transport.
2.02      The sector is still characterized by the involvement of a number of
international agencies -- IDB, UNDP, and IDA -- and by bilateral assistance
from France and USAID. The obvious possibility, and danger, of overlapping
and of inefficient working of such agencies has been minimized by the estab-
lishment of inter-agency meetifigs at approximately six-month intervals,
chaired by the Secretaire d'Etat des Travaux Publics, de Transport et Communi-
cations (TPTC, the Ministry of Public Works). All agencies participate in
these meetings, the second of which was held in January 1975.
2.03      Government policy is to continue to give priority to transportation
and agriculture, and a large share of development financing under the current
Five-Year Development Plan (1972-1976) is being devoted to these sectors.
Some 28% of total expenditure under the Plan is solely for investment in
transport.
2.04      The 1972-1976 Plan was prepared without the benefit of sectoral
plans; specifically as regards the transport sector, it was prepared without
identifying the transport demand of other sectors. TPTC, although charged
with responsibility for the sector, did not previously prepare a sectoral
plan, and, indeed, at the time the national plan was prepared, did not have
the capability to do so. The Government recognized the deficienci>es in
transport planning and decided to take action to correct them. As a result,
the Government, as part of the Third Highway Project, agreed (a) to establish
a transport sector planning unit under TPTC; (b) to initiate collection of
data in the highway subsector on a regular basis, and (c' to undertake a
study of the sector and the training of necessary counterpart personnel.
Technical assistance in these three areas, and also in the area of assistance
for development of the domestic civil works industry (para. 3.09), is being



provided as part of the Third Highiway Project, financed by UNDP with the
Bank as Executing Agency. The consultants (Louis Berger, US) providing this
technical assistance started in the field in April 1975. Because of the
importance of action taken by the Government in these areas for improving the
tranisport sector's performance, assurances were obtained during negotiations
for the proposed project reconfirming those obtained in connection with the
Third Highway Project with respect to the establishment of a transport sector
planning unit under TPTC and to highway traffic counts and origin/destination
surveys.
2.05      The transport study should provide a detailed investment plan for
the sector for the 1977-1981 period and an indicative plan for the following
five years. Preliminary results should be available by November/December
1975, at which time TPTC should review them in order to make available an ade-
quate sectoral plan for presentation to the national planners in early 1976.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Government will con-
sult with the Association (a) regarding recommendations of the study of the
transport sector with a view toward formulating an investment plan in the
transport sector and (b) before making any major investments in the trans-
port sector prior to completion of the investment plan under (a) above.
3. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
a
A.  Tihe Highw-ay Network and its Traffic
3.01      After a decade or so during which the condition of the national
road network deteriorated badly, the major roads, at least, are now being im-
proved. Under the ongoing Third Highway Project, a start has been made on
rehabilitating the Northern Road, which connects Port-au-Prince with Cap
Haitien, and which serves, en route, the most important agricultural area of
the country, the Artifbnite Plain.  Under an IDB-financed project, a start
has recently been made on rehabilitating the other major highway of the country
-- the Southern Road connecting Port-au-Prince with Les Cayes on the south-
ern peninsula. With French bilateral assistance, work will shortly commence
on improving and paving a third major road, that from Port-au-Prince to Jacmel.
These three projects, together with completion of rehabilitation of the
Northern Road under the proposed project, would, in large measure, rehabili-
tate the main road network. Still remaining would be rehabilitation and, in
part, new construction of the Central Road, which provides an alternative
route between Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien through the east-central part
of the country, and which seirves the country's main hydroelectric scheme (at
Peligre) and the agricultural area centered on Hiinche.
3.02      Information on traffic levels continues to be scanty, and such in-
formation as is available has been collected in connection with studies for
the major rehabilitation works now under way. A more systematic collection
of information on road transport should materialize under the Third Highway
Project (para. 2.04).



- 4 -
3.03       lbad transport is still not regulated in Haiti, and there are no
import restrictions on source, value, weight or dimensions of new vehicles.
Because of the absence of regulation, trucks and buses are free to operate,
and their tariffs are set by bargaining; as a result, tariffs are generally
competitive. As regards vehicle weight and dimensions, recommendations based
on standards of the American Association of State Highway Officials were made
in a UNDP study, in 1971-1973. The IDB-financed Southern Road Project includes
technical assistance to help introduce axle weight regulation and control on
the Southern Road and to help prepare necessary legislation; this represents
the first serious step toward limiting axle loads and, if properly implemented,
would help realize significant savings in pavement construction and mainte-
nance costs. Under the Credit Agreement of the Third Highway Project, the
Government undertook to adopt and enforce on all roads, not later than
December 31, 1976, measures to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of
vehicles would not exceed limits corbsistent with the structural and geometric
design standards of the roads. Under the same agreement, vehicle weighing
scales would be introduced not later than June 30, "978. During negotiations
for the proposed projects the above two agreements and the timing were recon-
firmed with the Government.
B.  Hii y Financing
3.04      Highway expenditures continue to be financed from both the general
and development budgets, although possibly in a somewhat unusual manner since,
for example, highway maintenance is funded from the development budget. Be-
cause of a complicated accounting procedure and occasional confusion between
recurrent and capital expenditures, it is difficult to determine accurately
the expenditures on highway design, construction, maintenance and administra-
tion. Estimates of such expenditures for the years 1972-1974 are given in
Table 1.
3.05      Highway-related expenditures from the development budget are funded
partly from user charges 1/ and partly from other funds allocated by the Gov-
ernmant for development, in the form of counterpart funds for externally
financed projects. As an example, the Government, in early 1974, allocated
one-half of the Matching Fund 2/ (equivalent to 2.5% of total fiscal revenues)
for highway construction, and indicated that it would also allocate US$2
rillion per year for road construction in general from increased bauxite
revenues. 3/ Projections of all Government counterpart funds for highways
for 1975-1978 were discussed during negotiations and appear in Table 2.
1!   The Government allocates all the sales tax on gasoline, equivalent to
US$0.19/gallon, to highway development, the allocation being to separate
earmarked funds for (a) construction and (b) maintenance.
2//  The Matching Fund was created in 1966 and represents 5% of total fiscal
revenues; this fund is reserved exclusively for use as a source of
counterpart funds for externally financed development projects.
3/   In late 1974, the Government renegotiated its agreement with Reynolds
Co. for bauxite exports, substantially increasing such revenues as of
January 1, 1975.



-5-
3.06      Road user charges for the period 1969-1974 are shown in Table 3.
The study of the transport sector, to be carried out under the Third Highway
Project (para. 2.04), will review user charges for roads, and, indeed, for
all modes of transport, with a view toward rationalizing allocation of
resources within the sector.
C.  Highway Planning
3.07      Until 1974, TPTC had not been seriously engaged in highway planning,
mainly because no capital investments were being made and even maintenance
had come to a standstill. With the present and proposed surge of activity in
the highway subsector, planning is now obviously necessary; therefore, tech-
nical assistance in this area is being provided under the UNDP-financed ele-
ment of the Third Highway Project. The setting up of a sectoral planning
unit and the training of counterpart personnel (para. 2.04) should ensure a
permanent capability for highway plaiining within TPTC.
3.08      The technical assistance provided under the Southern Road Project
(para. 3.03) and under the Third Highway Project covers many areas such as
planning, construction supervision, project administration, and vehicle weight
and dimension legislation and enforcement, but does not specifically cover
detailed preparation of highway projects -- a further area in which TPTC is
weak. An element of technical assistance for project preparation (such as
preparation of feasibility studies and detailed design, cost estimating and
preparation of bid documents) has therefore been included in the proposed
project (para. 4.07). Although present indications are that such projects
would probably be in the highway subsector, the project provides for the
possibility that they may be in other modes. The projects to be prepared
will be identified as part of the sectoral study being carried out under
the Third Highway Project.
D.   Highway Construction
3.09      Before the current intense activity in the highway sector began in
early 1974, there had been no major work since construction of the Northern
Road in 1952-1954. Therefore, there had been no opportunity for local firms
to develop, and all construction now under way (para. 3.01) is being carried
out by foreign firms (French and Canadian). Some small local firms do exist,
however, and, to strengthen this infant domestic construction industry, tech-
nical assistance is being provided under the Third Highway Project; the
greater part of this assistance should be provided during 1975.
3.10      Highway construction began on a large scale in 1974 when civil works
were contracted for reconstruction of the Northern Road (Cr. 478-HA), and the
Southern Road, this latter financed under an IDB loan. Physical progress
under the reduced, ongoing IDA-financed project (para. 1.02) has been notably
good; the Estere Bridge has been reconstructed and road works were contracted
and are on schedule.



-6-
E.   Highway Maintenance
3.11      In June 1974, and subsequent to signing of the Credit Agreement for
the Third Highway Project, the agencies chiefly concerned with maintenance --
USAID and the Association -- signed with Government a tripartite "Memorandum
of Understanding". This Memorandum sets out the action envisaged for the
Northern Road under the USAID-financed road maintenance project, which started
in October 1973, and the action required by the Government, specifically by
the Service d'Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National (SEPRRN), the
Government agency responsible for road maintenance.
3.12      Developments in highway maintenance since mid-1974 are as follows:
(a) Maintenance equipment and spares to the value of US$375,000 have
recently arrived in Haiti, financed under the USAID project; with
some equipment on which to operate, the USAID consultants (Hoskins,
Western, Sonderegger, US) should now be able to exert a significant
influence on maintenance.
(b)  SEPRRN has mobilized maintenance crews along the Northern Road in
substantial compliance with the Memorandum of Understanding.
(c) USAID has authorized two additional positions (road maintenance
specialists) in the consultants' team for on-site training of staff.
3.13      The start made by SEPRRN on maintenance of the Northern Road,
although small, is nevertheless encouraging. However, this maintenance pro-
gram is precarious since it depends upon continuing and permanent improvement
in the support which the field'teams receive -- both in terms of equipment
and funding -- from SEPRRN's organization; this, in turn, is dependent upon
the management of SEPRRN. Currently, management is reinforced by the USAID
consultants, but this assistance is scheduled to end by 1976, and it is
likely that further assistance, although possibly on a reduced scale, may be
needed by SEPRRN thereafter. The Government should now be looking ahead and
planning SEPRRN's work program and budget for, say, the next five years, and
defining SEPRRN's medium and long term training needs, both in Haiti and abroad.
The Association is concerned that maintenance of the road network in general
is adequate and, in particular, that the significant investment it is pro-
viding for reconstruction of the Northern Road will be preserved. During
negotiations, therefore, the Association discussed the principal points that
the Government would consider in preparing:
(a) A five-year plan for SEPRRN, including specifications for
maintenance on the Northern Road and the associated budgetary
requirements; and
(b) SEPRRN's training program for the same period.
It was agreed during negotiations that agreement between the Government and
the Association on the above five-year plan and training program would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.



- 7 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The proposed project would consist of:
(a) Reconstruction of ten sections of the Northern Road (Table 4) be-
tween Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien, totalling about 170 km.
fb) Re-evaluation of the pavement design of the work in (a) above.
(c) Design and construction of a new bridge across the Artibonite River
at Sonde, adjacent to the existing bridge.
(d) Supervision of the construction elements of (a) and (c) above.
(e) Technical assistance, amounting to about 60 man/months, for:
(i) preparing future projects in the transport sector; and
(ii) improving, further, the capabilities of the domestic civil
works industry.
B.   Reconstruction of the Northern Road
4.02      Approximately 80 km pf the Northern Road are being reconstructed
under the ongoing Third Highway Project; the work includes construction of
the new Estere Bridge -- one of two sizable bridges on that section of the
Northern Road which crosses the Artibonite Plain, about halfway between
Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien. Because the existing bridge had virtually
collapsed, a contract for construction of the new bridge was let separately
and in advance of the main works. The contract for construction of the new
bridge was awarded to DUMEZ (France) in February 1974; work commenced in
Harch 1974, and the new bridge was completed by December 1974.  DUMEZ, in
joint venture with COLAS (France), was subsequently awarded the road construc-
tion contract in the latter half of 1974, and work is now well under way.
4.03      The road sections selected for inclusion in the Third Hiighway Proj-
ect (Map IBRD 11482) were those most urgently in need of reconstruction. The
ten sections selected for inclusion in this proposed project constitute all
the road excluded from the Third Project. Feasibility studies and final
design for these ten sections were made, along with the others, by INGEROUTE
(France) during 1973/74 as part of a study of the Northern Road financed by
UNDP, for which the Bank was Executing Agency. The geometrical and structu-
ral design standards are shown in Table 5. Because the original pavement
design for these ten sections was carried out in 1973, both TPTC and the
Association considered it prudent to re-examine certain sections in the
light of (a) the recent behavior of the pavements and (b) current traffic.
In consultation with the Association, TPTC awarded a contract to the consultants



- 8 -
Ewart, Lea and Tremblay (Canada), in late 1974, to review the pavement design.
Preliminary results from the consultants' work were reviewed in the Bank prior
to negotiations, and estimates of cost now reflect the revised design
standards.
4.04      The proposed civil works lend themselves to a blend of labor-inten-
sive and equipment-intensive working. The major items -- earthworks (includ-
ing rock excavation) and pavement work -- are appropriately carried out by
machine. Other items, particularly small structures and drainage works, are
more appropriately executed by labor-intensive methods. The cost estimates
have been built up accordingly.
C.   Design and Construction of a New Bridge at Sonde
4.05      The bridge over the Artibonite River at Sonde is the larger of the
two bridges in the Artibonite Plain section of the Northern Road (the other
is over the Estere). The existing Sonde Bridge is a metal truss structure
some 97 years old; considering its age, it is in remarkably good condition.
However, its replacement should not be too long delayed. When the Estere
Bridge failed structurally in 1973, a detour requiring some 20 km of addi-
tional travel was possible, although it was extremely difficult for traffic.
If the Sonde Bridge were to collapse, either from old age or from a critical
structural member being damaged by traffic, the effect on the economy of Haiti
would be calamitous since all traffic between the northern part of the coun-
try and Port-au-Prince would have to use part of the Central Road, crossing
the Artibonite River, some 70 km upstream of Sonde, near the Peligre Dam (see
sketch map). This would be extremely costly because the condition of this de-
tour, totalling about 180 km, is far worse than that of the Northern Road.
4.06      The existing bridge at Sonde will need to be replaced before long;
it is not possible to predict with accuracy when its useful life would end
but, in view of the economic consequences of a collapse without a replacement
bridge being in place, TPTC and the Association considered it wise to include
the design and construction of the bridge, and the associated minor road works,
in the proposed project. The design was done by Ewart, Lea and Tremblay
within the contract for pavement re-evaluation (para. 4.03).
D.   Technical Assistance
4.07      As mentioned earlier (para. 3.08), technical assistance under the
Third Highway Project includes general planning assistance, but not specific
assistance in project preparation. In the proposed project, therefore, pro-
vision is made for consultant services to help prepare specific projects which
will be identified during the course of the study of the transport sector.
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government that
TPTC will use this assistance to help prepare the transport projects of high-
est priority taking into account the recommendations of the study and in
agreement with the Association; in addition, TPTC will furnish the necessary
counterpart personnel and funds.



- 9 -
4.08      Continued technical assistance would also be furnished to the
domestic civil works industry, which is receiving assistance under the Third
Highway Project where the focus is on evaluating existing contractors'
capacity, Government 's role in the industry, and the essentials of con-
tracting -- in the area of works management, costing, budgeting, and pre-
paration of bids, as well as in the engineering field. Under the proposed
project, the assistance to contractors would concentrate furtlier on the
managerial and engineering fields, and on in-service training of their
personnel. Thus, this assistance would enhance the possibility of active
participation by local firms in major civil works in the country (see Annex).
E.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbtirsements
4.09      The proposed project is estimated to cost about US$26.3 million
equivalent, 1/ including contingency allowances, as shown in the table on
page 10 following.
4.10      Bidding in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for about
85% of the reconstruction (in fact, lots C and D, Table 4) was initiated in
early 1975, and bids were received in Mlarch 1975 (although contracts have
not been awarded). The lowest evaluated bid was slightly below estimate.
The estimate for all the reconstruction work has been based on this bidding
experience.
4.11      The cost estimate for the new Sonde Bridge has been based on an
extrapolation of the actual cost of the recently completed Estere Bridge.
The cost estimate of consultant services for supervision and technical assist-
ance has been based on experience under the ongoing Third Highway Project.
Input by foreign consultants has been assumed at a rate of about US$5,000/
man-month.  The cost of the reevaluation of the pavement design and the de-
sign of the new Sonde Bridge has been based on the signed contract.
4.12      A quantity contingency of 10% of the estimated cost of the civil
works has been adopted. This is considered adequate in view of the predomi-
nance of paving in the reconstruction works; it is unlikely that the founda-
tion for the new Sonde Bridge (one of the less predictable items) would
require any unexpectedly large variation in type or quantity from that cur-
rently envisaged. Price contingencies are generally in line with estimated
projection of inflation and results of bidding experience, and are con-
sidered adequate. 2/
1/   This figure has no tax element since only foreign contractors are expected
to bid, and the Government has agreed to exempt them from local taxes.
2/   See footnote 4 on following page.



Gord.es vAillicn              TJS8 `4illion           Base Cost  Foreigr
Local  Fgg-o regn   Ta        Local   I oreif :Er   La   Estimate  x_ ar
Hec- sotnr-ction 0 r
uorther- Road           21.0      614.0     85-0        4.2     12 .8    17.0 1/   86    7         2/
Construction of
cT;de bridge             h. 14.              6.C       0.3        0.9      1.2        6         75 2/
7'ub-lo al          2?.       68.      91.0      14.5      13.7    18.2        92         75
C,onsuiting qe-rr:ces
Construction
fupervision              1.0       3.5       14.5      0.2       0.7      0.9         5         80
Re-evaluation of
pavement design and
design o0  Sonde
bridge                   3/         0.5        .5       3/        0.1      0.2        -         8
Technical assistance
for project prepara-
tion and further as-
sistance to contract-
i ng industry            0è        2.5        3.0       0.i                O 0  0.    2    - 8
Sub-Total            1.5       6.5       8.0       0.3       1.3      1.6        8         80
Base Cost Est-imate    24.0       75.0      00.0        4.8     15.o    19.8        100
C,ontiinzencies
Ph,s.i-cal (10%,)      2.0       7.0      o9.        0.14      1.       1.8
Price escalation 4/ 5.56        3.0       23        _ 1.1      3.6       4.7
S-ub-Total          7.5      25.0      325        1.5       5.0      6
Tot.s' Prcject          3.       100.0    131.5        6.3      20.0    223
1/  Equivalent to about TJS$100f,000/k M..
2/  Although thlere may be some s bcontr4cting to domestic firms, the 'oreigr exch-nge
component assumes that the work will be carried out essentially by foreign firms.
3/ Lf,oca  costs are not signi 'icant within the degree of precisi on of the figares in
the table.
1"/         - escaa,ion contingency is estimated a' 2,14  of' ase ''coSt Oi th nΩS 
infl tion 'for c-  'rl Tnrks and consulting ser-Tices varying annually as felows:
7I75-1flC   ' fi3c_ ; 1977 and 1f 'iX' -- 10i-.



- 11 -
4.13      The forei,n exchange component of the project is proposed for fi-
nancing by an IDtA Credit of US$20 million.  Financing from the Credit of up
to US$100,000. retroactive to October 1, 1974, to cover the foreign exchange
costs of the pavement reevaluation and bridge design (paras. 4.03 and 4.06)
is recommended.  Local costs for the project will be met by the Governmenit.
An assurance to this effect, including an indication regarding the source
of such 'local funds, was obtained from the Government during negotiations.
4.14      Disbursement of the Credit would be made as follows:
(a)  for reconstruction of the Northern Road and construction of the
Sonde Bridge, on the basis of 100% of foreign exchange costs of
contractors, and 20% of local costs of contractors, representing
the foreign exchange component to the country of the project, and
estimated at 75% of project cost, net of taxes (the Govern-
ment intends, as 4in the case of the Third Highway Project,
to exempt contractors from all taxes in Haiti); and
(b) for consultant services, supervision and technical
assistance, 100% of the foreign exchange cost of such
services.
F.   Execution
4.15      Proiect execution would be the responsibility of TPTC.  Reconstruc-
tion of tne road sections and construction of the new Sonde Bridge would be
carried out on the basis of unit price contracts awarded after international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The works
wculd be divided into four lots (para. 4.10 and Table 4). Although the 7-1/2%
preference for domestic contractors applies in Haiti, no domestic firm was
prequalified to bid under the ongoing Third Highway Project, and, since tech-
nical assistance to the domestic civil works industry began only in April 1975,
the industry would still not be capable of participating in the proposed
project as prime contractors. Therefore, to attract competitive response
from international contractors, relatively large contractual lots were adopted.
Nevertheless, subcontracting of domestic firms by international prime con-
tractors has already begun under the ongoing project, and will be further
encouraged under the proposed project. Lots 1/ C and D were bid in January
1975, and bids were received in MIarch 1975 (para. 4.10). Lots E and F will
be bid as soon as the bidding documents can be completed, taking into account
results of pavement reevaluation and bridge design (paras. 4.03 and 4.06).
The terms and conditions for procurement under Lots C and.D were agreed with
the Association prior to calling for bids; agreement with the Government
generally on the civil works procurement, including that for Lots E and F,
1/   Lots A and B constitute civil works under the ongoing Third Highway
Project.



- 12 -
was reached during negotiations. A 7-1/2% margin of preference will be
available to domestic contractors bidding for civil works. Civil works
should commence in late 1975 and be completed in 1978. Table 6 indicates
disbursements under the proposed Credit on this assumption. No delays are
expected in land acquisition; nevertheless, an assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the Government will take all action necessary to acquire
all such land and rights as may be needed for the timely execution of the
project.
4.16      Consultant services for technical assistance will be provided on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and were agreed with the
Government during negotiations. The consultant (Ingeroute/France), supervising
civil works under the Third Highway Project, will be retained for supervision
of the road construction element of the proposed project on terms and conditions
agreed with the Association.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      This economic evaluation concentrates on the reconstruction element
of the project and on the construction of a new Sonde Bridge (which, together,
and with the associated consultant services, would represent about 97% of
the estimated project cost). A qualitative assessment only is made of the
remaining investment proposed, that for technical assistance.
B. 'Reconstruction-of the Northern Road
(i) General
5.02      Improvement of the Northern Road can be expected to:
(a) reduce vehicle operating costs:
(b) reduce road maintenance costs;
(c) facilitate the full development of, and access to, the main agri-
cultural areas of the country and provide improved all-weather
road services attractive to tourists; and
(d) integrate the second largest town, Cap Haitien, more closely with
the rest of the courntry.
Quantifiable benefits ((a) to (c)) are discussed in detail, and an indication
is provided of the non-quantifiable benefits (d) which should result from the
work.



- 13 -
(ii) Description of Area Served
5.03      Details of the principal towns along the Northern Road, together
with their average annual population growth rates during 1950-1971, are given
in Table 7; these towns are among the fastest growing in Haiti. Recent eco-
nomic expansion has, to a large degree, been concentrated in Port-au-Prince
and its environs. The reduced cost of transportation resulting from improve-
ment of the Northern Road and the agricultural development schemes presently
being implemented there may contribute to more balanced growth of ujrban and
rural population.
5.04      The main industries along the Northern Road are:
(a) a flour mill near Duvalierville, current output 120,000 tons p.a.,
to be expanded to 279,000 tons p.a. by 1976;
(b) a cement plant, also near Duvalierville, current output
300,000 tons p.a., to be expanded to 350,000 tons p.a.
by the end of this year;
(c) a sugar refinery on the outskirts of Port-au-Prince,
current output 60,000 tons p.a.;
(d) a textile mill at Gonaives, the output to be tripled from
current levels by 1976; and
(e) a steel mill, recently brought into production, on the
outskirts of Port-au-Prince.
5.05      The Northern Road serves the following important agricultural areas:
(a) the Artibonite Plain (25,000 ha), the main rice-producing
area in Haiti (47,000 tons of processed rice in 1973). The
Organisation du Developpement de la Vallee d'Artibonite
(ODVA) plans to double this production by 1980;
(b) the area northeast of Gonaives (2,700 ha). The Organisation
du Developpement de la Plaine de Gonaives (ODPG) has received
US$2 million equivalent from the Federal Republic of Germany,
US$737,000 from the International Coffee Organization and
US$600,000 from the Haitian Government to increase agricultural
production in this area. A feasibility study has been made of
the required investments by the Institut Interamericain des
Sciences Agricoles de L'OEA (IICA). Table 8 1/ shows actual
and estimated agricultural production of this area;
1/   The forecasts in Tables 8 and 9 assume the successful implementation of
ODPG's development plans mentioned in subparagraphs (b) and (c).



- 14 -
(c) the area north of the Estere River (1,200 ha). ODPG plans to
increase agricultural production in this area significantly
by 1976 with additional financial support from the Federal
Republic of Germany (US$7.3 million equivalent); IICA studied
the feasibility of the proposed program. Table 9 1/ shows
actual and predicted agricultural production in this area;
(d) the area around Plaisance (between Puilboreau and Camp Coq)
where the primary products are coffee and cocoa; 1973 pro-
duction was estimated at 7,000 and 1,000 tons, respectively.
Additional products grown in this area are sweet potatoes,
manioc, bananas and other fruits.
5.06      Other traffic generators along the Northern Road include quarries
near Ennery and in the Artibonite Plain, charcoal kilns near Gonaives, and
livestock raising near the Estere River. Additionally, the beaches along the
first 70 km out of Port-au-Prince and those near Cap Haitien, the panoramic
views in the mountains near Limbe and the places of historical interest in
the Cap Haitien region (San Souci Palace, Laferriere Citadel and the ruins of
the house of Pauline Bonaparte) are increasingly generating tourist traffic.
(iii) Traffic
5.07      Existing traffic volumes using the Northern Road were established
during the past few years through field surveys which were part of preinvest-
ment studies. These surveys indicate, for 1973, a wide range of ADT's from
4,120 just outside Port-au-Prince to as low as 63 in the northern hilly region
close to Plaisance. In the ecopomic evaluation, normal traffic in passenger
vehicles (cars, jeeps, pickups and buses) and in trucks has been projected
using the 1973 figures as base. Projections have been made for the 20-year
economic life of the project from 1978 to 1997, inclusive. Normal traffic
growth rates have been assumed to vary between 2.9% and 7.0% per annum for
passenger vehicles, and between 4.6% and 7.0% per annum for trucks.  Forecast
daily traffic volumes are shown in Table 10 for 1978-1997 on various sections
of the road.
5.08      Reconstruction of the Northern Road will generate traffic by reduc-
ing the passenger and freight costs to and from the areas served and by pro-
viding an improved all-weather road attractive to tourists.  The estimated
generated traffic as a percentage of the normal traffic varies between 4.7%
and 49.1% for cars, 0.0% and 10.5% for vans and pickups, 0.0% and 13.2% for
buses, 0.0% and 13.3% for trucks (assuming traffic demand elasticities 2/
ranging between 0.1 and 1.0 for the different vehicle types used in the
1/   The forecasts in Tables 8 and 9 assume the successful implementation of
ODPG's development plans mentioned in subparagraphs (b) and (c).
2/   The elasticity for jeeps was estimated to be zero.



- 15 -
analyses) through th_ 2doyear economic life of the project.  Forecasts for
generated traffic volurmes are shown in Table 10. There would be no diverted
traffic since alternate routes do not exist.
(iv)  Benefits from the Project
5.09      Quantifiable benefits from the proposed road reconstruction would
consist of savings in vehicle operating costs and reduced road maintenance
costs for the highway. These benefits have been calculated for the total
projected traffic throughout the economic life, beginning in 1978. For the
Sonde Bridge, four alternative benefit calculations were made, under the as-
sumptions that the existing bridge would collapse in 1982, 1987, 1992 and
1997, respectively. If the bridge were to collapse without a replacement
having been built, a detour of about 180 km under very difficult conditions
would be required on the Central Road (para. 4.05 and sketch map).
5.10      The present condition of the existing road, both the paved and the
unpaved sections, would deteriorate if the proposed reconstruction works were
not carried out; deterioration would take place, although at a reduced rate,
even if maintenance efforts were to increase. On the basis of the field
surveys, this deterioration has been predicted for each section of the exist-
ing Northern Road, assuming several intermediate surface conditions between
paved and gravel roads and two intermediate levels between gravel roads and
an improved track.
5.11      The operating costs for the five vehicle categories considered, and
for each level of surface condition mentioned above, were calculated through
methods which are standard for,highway projects. In this case, however, time
savings of vehicle drivers, passengers, and equipment were not considered;
neither considered were the effects of a possible reduction in the number of
accidents. Basic operating unit costs are shown in Table 11; they compare
well with figures for other Caribbean countries. For the calculation of the
road maintenance savings, a linear maintenance cost formula was used.
5.12      Improved road transport from the Artibonite Valley and from Cap
Haitien to Port-au-Prince would generate important development benefits in
the agricultural sector and in tourism. These developmental effects of the
proposed project have been considered in the generated traffic; half the
value of savings of traffic generated by the road improvement was attributed
as a benefit of the project. Since the transport industry is competitive
(para. 3.03), all benefits would likely be passed on to farmers, manufacturers,
passengers and, ultimately, to consumers.
5.13      In addition to quantifiable benefits, the project has an important
socio-political effect of integrating the second largest town, Cap Haitien,
more closely with the rest of the country and the capital.
(v) Economic Returns
5.14      The economic evaluation considered the estimated construction cost
(the road sections and the Sonde Bridge), the contingency allowance for



- 16 -
quantity increase (10%), and the estimated cost of supervision. Construction
of the road sections was assumed to commence in 1975, and that of the Sonde
Bridge in 1977, and completion was assumed by early 1978.
5.15       Further investment costs have to be considered during the 20-year
economic life of the reconstructed sections due to the need for future
strengthening of the proposed pavement structures in view of the growing traf-
fic volumes to be serviced. This staging concept for pavement construction
has been applied in five of the project sections.
5.16       The economic return was computed on the basis of the full stream of
benefits and of initial and supplementary investment costs. The returns,
given in Table 12, show that the reconstruction works, without the Sonde
Bridge, would have an overall rate of return of about 26%, with the various
sections 1/ ranging between about 9% and 48%. Benefits and costs were dis-
counted over the period 1975 through 1997, including the construction period
and the 20-year economic life. The overall rates of return for the road
reconstruction works, including the Sonde Bridge assuming that the existing
bridge would collapse in 1982, 1987, 1992 or 1997, were 35%, 30%, 27% and
26%, respectively. Section 8 (Table 12), between Km 178 and Km 201, has a
relatively low rate of return (9%), but its inclusion in the project is
justified for three reasons: (a) the additional costs 2/ to go back and im-
prove the section at a later date; (b) a reduction in benefits for all other
road sections of the project, since generated long-distance traffic would be
lower without improving this section; and (c) the socio-political effect
(unquantifiable benefit) of linking Cap Haitien, via an all-weather road, with
Port-au-Prince. Sensitivity tests applied to the economic analysis assumed
(a) an increase in construction costs by 25%, (b) a decrease in benefits by
25%, and (c) a reduction to zero for the amount of generated traffic. The
economic returns for the road reconstruction works, without the Sonde Bridge,
using these variations, range from 21% to 25%. Under the assumption that the
existing Sonde Bridge would collapse in 1982, 1987, 1992 or 1997, the economic
returns for the total project, including the new Sonde Bridge and using the
same variations, range from 30% to 34%, 25% to 29%, 23% to 27% and 22% and
26%, respectively.  These sensitivity tests indicate that the economic
feasibility of the proposed Northern Road would remain within acceptable limits.
C.   Technical Assistance
5.17      The proposed technical assistance (para. 4.07) will provide con-
sulting services for detailed preparation of the highest priority projects
identified from the transport survey and should help ensure preparation of
those projects in the transport sector which would maximize socio-economic
1/   For purposes of economic evaluation, road sections were defined in terms
of traffic, existing road condition, and type of proposed pavement.
2/   If this 23-km section alone should be bid at a future date, contractors's
mobilization and overhead costs would be higher than those when works
were bid as part of a larger package, as proposed.



- 17 -
benefits. In addition, the Haitian counterpart trainees may, in future years,
advise planning officials concerned with other sectors of the economy regard-
ing sound principles of project evaluation and implementation.
5.18      The continued technical assistance to the domestic contracting in-
dustry (para. 4.08) is expected to improve the entrepreneurial and engineering
capabilities of the firms selected for this program, thus building up the
local industry-. This process may eventually reduce foreign exchange require-
ment of civil works construction.
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on
the following:
(a)  the maintenance needs of the national road network and a
five-year plan therefor, including specific measures for
the Northern Road, as well as SEPRRN's training program
and the associated budgetary requirements to be submitted to,
and agreed by, the Association as a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit (para. 3.13); and
(b) the procurement arrangements for the civil works and
consultant services included in the project (paras.
4.15 and 4.16).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances, as follows, were obtained from
the Government:
(a) that the Government will, not later than December 31, 1975,
establish a transport sector planning unit under TPTC
(para. 2.04);
(b) that highway traffic counts and origin-destination surveys
will be conducted as agreed under Credit 478-HA (para. 2.04);
(c) that the Association will be consulted (i) regarding
recommendations of the study of the transport sector (now
being conducted under the Third Highway Project) with a
view toward formulating a sectoral investment plan; and
(ii) before making any major investment in the transport
sector prior to completion of the investment plan under
(i) above (para. 2.05);
(d) that the Government will, not later than December 31, 1976,
adopt regulations and take measures to ensure that limits
for dimensions and axle loads of vehicles will not exceed
those consistent with structural and geometric design of
roads; furthermore, that Government will install weighing
scales not later than June 30, 1978 (para. 3.03);



- 18 -
(e) that the technical assistance for project preparation will
be used to prepare transport projects of the highest priority
selected by taking into account the recommendations of the
transport sector study and in agreement with the Association
(para. 4.07);
(f) that the local costs of the project will be met by the
Government (the estimated sources of such local funds were
also identified) (para. 4.13); and
(g)  that all necessary steps to acquire the land or other rights
that may be needed for timely execution of the project will
be taken promptly as required (para. 4.15).
6.03      With the agreements indicated in paragraph 6.01 and the assurances
indicated in paragraph 6.02, the project will provide a suitable basis for
a Credit of US$20 million to the Government of Haiti, on the usual terms for
IDA credits.
Mav 21, 1975



Table 1
HAITI
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Hihwm Expenditures 1972-1974
(US$ Mllions)
1972/1973         1973/1 974
Operating Budget TPTC                     1.86               2.26
Maintenance Budget SEPIRRN                0.46               0.50
Road Construction Investments
From local funds                         -                 0.53
From foreign funds                       -                 1.23
Technical Assistance
From local funds                        0.07               0.08
From foreign funds                      0.23               1.12
Total        2.62               5.72
Source: General and Development Budgets.
Februaar 1975



TABLE 2
HAITI
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
.stimates of Expenditures and Budgetary Allocations for HighTay
Construction and Maintenance for Fiscal Years 1975-1978
(in US Dollars)
Balance           1975
3/31/75        (6 months)         1976             1977            1978
RESOURCES
Road construction fund 1/                              475,000           880,000      2,200,000       2,200,000        2,200,000
Matching fund for roads (50%)                           263,000          435,000      1,000,000       1,050,000        1,100,000
Bauxite revenues allocated for roads                 2,000,000             --         2,000,000       2,000,000        2,000,000
Airport                                                  --               60,000        120,000          120,000          --
Special allocation coffee project 2/                    --                68,000        135,000         135,000          135,000
Special allocation Southern Road (Phase I) 3/          500,000             --            --                --             --
Advance allocation Southern Road (Phase II) 4/   2,000,000                 --            --                --             --
Available During Period                5,238,000          1,443,000    5,455,000        5,505,000        5,435,000
Total Available                           --              6,603,000    9,590,000        7,760,000       7,060,000
Reserves
COMMITMENT
Southern Road (Phase I)                                  --               800,000    1,200,000        1,000,000           --
Southern Road (Phase II) 5/                              --                --           700,000         700,000           --
Northern-Road III                                        --             1,000,000    1,900,000             --             --
Northern Road IV                                        --                200,000    2,400,000        3,100,000          600,000
AID (Coffee Project) 2/                                  --                68,000       135,000          135,000         135,000
Maintenance (SEPRRN) 6/                                 78,000            400,000    1,000 000        1,200,000        1,400,000
Total Commitments                          78,000          2,468,000    7,335,000        6,135,000       2,135,000
Net Balance                             5,160,000         4,135,000    2,255,000         1,625,000       4,925,000
/  Comprises revenues from sales taxes on gasoline (0.19 U13*gallon) and diesel fuel (0.02 US$/gallon), including funds
-  set aside for maintenance.
2/  The feeder road component of this project is financed from that part of the Matching Fund reserved for
general development.
3/  An advance by Banque Nationale de la Republique d'Haiti to be repaid out of general Government revenues.
4/ Government intends to utilize the additional funds from bauxite revenues when Southern Road Phase II Project
becomes active.
5/  Assuming an external loan of US$14.0 million (at 1974 bid price) with 10% Government's contribution.
6/  Preliminary estimates subject to change upon completion by Government of detailed five-year
maintenance program.
April 1975



HAITI
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Charges - 1969-1974
(US$ Nilijons)
1969/1970     1970/1971      1971/1972      1972/1973      1973/1974 3/
Gasoline Tax 1                                     2.38          3.04            3.58           3.5)4         3.89
Diesel Tax    /                                    0.38          0.62            0.50           0.70          0.50
Tax on First Registration                          0.o6          0.20            0.22           0.28          0.32
Registration Fees                                  0.30          0.24            0.22           0.32          0.36
Driving Licenses                                   0.06          o.o6            0.08          0.10           0.10
Ilmport Tax on Vehicles                            0.52          0.64            0.84          0.92           0.66
Import Tax on Spare Parts                          0.10          0.10            0.10          0.12           0.12
Import Tax on Tires                                0.10          0,16            0.12          0.22           0.22
3.90          5.06            5.66          6.20           6.17
1/ Includes import tax and excise tax.
2/ Exempt from import tax.
3/ Only preliminary figures were available for-this year.                                                               N
Source: Administration Generale des Douanes and Administration Generale des Contributions, December 1974.
Secretairerie d'Etat des Finances et des Affaires Economiques, T4ay 1975.
MIay 1975



HAITI
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Proposed Civil Works
(In Thousands of US$)
Contracting Lots 1/      Road Sections      Length (km)      Existing Condition      Proposed Works 2/       Estimated Costs  i/
Lot C             ( Km  7.0 - Km 13.4            6.4         Deformed Paved          Reconstruction
( Km 17.7 - Km 32.0          14.3          Paved                  Pavement Strengthening
( Km 43.4 - Km 56.8          13.4         Paved                   Pavement Overlay
( Km 57.5 - Km 59.3           1.8         Paved                   Pavement Overlay
( Km 60.2 - Km 70.3          10.1         Disintegrated Pavement Reconstruction
( Kml28.1 - Kml43.6          15.5         Paved                   Pavement Overlay
( Km147-5 - Km178.O          23.4         Paved                   Pavement Strengthening &
Provision of Shoulders
92.0                                                              6,300
Lot D             ( Km178.0 - Km201.3           23.3         Set Stone & Fully       Paving & Provision
C                                         Disintegrated Pavement Of Shoulders
( Km201.3 - Km247.4          46.1          Set Stone & Fully      Paving & Provision
(                                         Disintegrated Pavement Of Shoulders
76.5                                                              8,400
Lot E             ( Km  0.0 - Km  7.0            7.0         Paved                   Reconstruction
Being Reviewed               2,100
Lot F             ( Sonde Bridge at                          About 100 years old    New Bridge including          1,400
(  Km105.5                85 meters       cast iron structure    access road sections
Total Length of Road Sections              168.4                                                    TOTAL    18,200
1/ Lots A and B constitute civil works along the Northern Road already in execution under Cr. 478-HA
2/  Reconstruction and pavement strengthening will be based on staged pavement design allowing for successive
overlays six, twelve and eighteen years after completion of five of the road sections.
3 Net of taxes, updated to April 1975, excluding quantity and price escalation contingencies.
Source: Appraisal Mission
?May 1975



TABLE 5
HAITI
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Northern Road
Terrain
Design Parameters                        Flat      Undulating       Mountainous
Horizontal
Maximum cross slope  (%)                    7              7              7
MiniTmu  radius       (m)                 240           120              40
Vertical
Maximum grade         (%)                   4              7              8
Minimum radius        (m)               4,500         1,600             500
Braking distance      (m)                  60            35              15
Stopping distance    (m)
- on tangent                            105            70              40
- on curve                              120            80              45
Sight distance       (m)                  325           250             150
Design speed      (kmlhr)                  80            60              40
Width of travelled way:         5.50 - 7.00 m
Width of shoulders:             0.50 - 3.00 m
Design Standards for Sonde Bridlge
Loading: American Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO) standard =
H2o-S16
Width of Travelled Way: 7.20 m
Source:  INGEROUTE Final Design Report, December 1973.
Ewart, Lea, Tremblay Design Memo for Sonde Bridge, May 1975.
May 1975



TAB'LE 6
H 'IT I
FOURTH HIGHIJAY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative Disbursement
IB,RD/IDA Fiscal Year                                 at end of quar-ter
and 9uarter Endi z                                 __ (13$ Thousands)
1975/1976
September 1975                                                100
December l975                                               3,000
March 1976                                                   ,5oo
ju-ne 1976                                                  6,000
1976/1977
September 1976                                              7,v0O
December 1976                                               9,500
March 1977                                                 13,000
June 1977                                                  16, 000
1977/1978
September 1977                                             18,000
December 1977                                              19,000
^Tarch 1978                                                19,O0
June 1978                                                  20,000
Assumptions:  Bids for Civil Wdorks, Lots C and D, Evaluated May 1975.
Contractor's Mobilization for Lots C and D October 1975.
Bids for 'ivil - dorks, Lots E and F, Evaluated December 1970W.
CIonstr-uction, including bonde Hridge, cémplet-d early 1978.
Source:  Appraisal '?4ission
F ebruary 197W



TABLE 7
HP.ITI
FOURTH HIGHAY PROJECT
Growth of Prini aI TowAns along the Northern Road
Po ulation (in thousands)    Average  mnnual
City.                            19 0            1971         Growth Rate
Port-au-Prince                   151.9           506.5           5 .9 %
Cap Haitien                       29.a4                          3.0 %
Gonaives                          17.9            36.7           3.5 %
St. Marc                          11.4            20.5           3.0 ;
Limbe                              3.9             6.5           2.5 6
Source:  Institut Haitien de Statistique.
February 1975



HAITI
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Actual & Est-imated Agricultural Production - Plain of Gonaives 1973-80
(Thousand 1Itric Tons)
PRODUCT                                       Y E A R S                                Average Annual
Growth Rate
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    During 1973-80
Cotton             3.30    4.50    4.70    5.10    5.30    5.140    5.50    5.50           7.6%
iaidney Beans     0.03    0.09    0.33    0.60    0.72    0.72    0.72    0.72            59.0%
Corn               0.014    0.29    0.78    1.62    2.o4    2.o4    2.04    2.04          75.0%
Vegetablas-/       0.13    0.72    3.00    7.20   12.00   16.00   16.00   16.00          100.0%
Manioc             0.414    0.48    0 . 72    1.20    1. 44    1.80    1.80    1.80       21.0%
1/   Tomatoes, eggplants and onions.
Source: Goveriunent estimates revised by Appraisal Mlission.
Febr'L1ary 1975



HAITI
FOIJRTH HIGIHWIAY PROJECT
Actual and Est  tated  gu1tural Production - Area_North of Estere 1973-1980
-       ~~~Thousand Melteric tons_______
YEARS                                            Average Annual
PROIU.T C           1973      197        19Th      1976       1977      J1978      1979       1980       Growth Pate 1/
<afl nas^            -         -          -        0.84       0.8Lt     0.98       l.LC       1.140        13.6%
Corn               0.08       o.o8       0.08      0.35       0.20      o.68       0.6b       0.70          36. 0,
S orghmo 2/         0. 05     0.06       0.07      0.10       0.05        -         -          _
Cotton 31/                     -          -         -         0.08       -          -         0.12          1i.5%
Tobacco              -         -          -         -         o.o6       0.J.4     0.26       0.28          47- 0?
Kidney Beans         -         -          -        0.]4       1.15      0.18       0.18       0.18           6.5 %
VTegetables 4/       -         rw         -        0.h8       1.80      3.70       4.90       h.90          80.0%
1/ During period applicable to product.
2/1 Development plans ^11 for the phasing out of sorghum production after 1977.
3/ The production of coJton is planned every third year, starting in 1977 (rotation of crops).
)f/ Tomatoes, eggplants and onions.
Source:  GTorernment estimates revised by Appraisal Mission, 1973
T?ebruary 1`75



FIATI,
FOURTH HIGXWAY PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic Forecast on Sections oC the i4oi'thern Road - 1978-1997
CAR6             JEEPS          VANS & PICK UPS      BUSES            TRUCKS          ALL VEHICLES
Road Sections 1/   1976      1997      1978   1997    1978        1997     1978   1997      1978   1997       1978      1997
Km   O  -Km   6.9 1683/79  6087/928  306/0  1114/0  277b/21  1oo46/242  421/6  1521/72  590/8  2132/97  5780/114  20900/13,19
Km   6.9-Km  13.4  414/29  1498/339   77/0   279/0   288/3    1041/36   323/6  1169/69  253/5   913/60  1355/43    4900/504
Km 17.7-Km  32.0  414/29  1498/339   77/0   279/0   258/3    10i1/46   323/7  1169/80  253/5   913/60  1355/44    4900/515
Km 43.4-Km  56.8) 140/19   507/227   56/0   201/0    49/1       178/14   189/7   685/84  l05/4   379/48   539/31    1950/373
Km  57.5-Km  59.3)
Km  60.2-Km  70.3)
Km 126.1-Km 141.3)  36/2    118/25    43/0   120/0    30/0        65/2     59/1   176/11   97/2   274/18   265/5        753/56
Km 141.3-Km 143.6)
Km 147.5-Km 159.4  54/7    114/56    56/0   105/0    46/1         80/7     33/1    84/11   64/2   150/20   253/11       533/94
Km 159.4-Km 178.0   17/1     56/9     18/0    45/0    18/0        33/1     30/0    78/4    47/1   124/6    130/2        336/20
Km 178.0-Km 201.3  16/1      55/8     12/0    33/0      7/0       18/0     18/o-   60/3    31/0    93/4       84/1      259/15
Km 201.3-Km 247.4   23/3     62/29    20/0    45/0      8/0      19/2      53/2   114/15   32/1    91/12   136/6        331/58
LEGEND: Figures indicate normal/generated traffic.  For example, in the first section, car traffic in 1978 is
1683/79, that is, normal traffic is 1683 vehicles per day and generated traffic is 79 vehicles per day.
1/  Kilometer references indicate the number of kilometers on the Northern Road measured from the beginning of                H
this highr:ay at the outskirts of Port-au-Prince.                                                                        oa
Sources:  Ingeroute Final Feasibility Report, SeotenMber 1973, and Appraisal Mission
February 1975



HAITI
FOURTH HIGHW1AY PAOJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs on the Northiern Road
(Net of taxes, US cents/k"ll)
Car     Jeep      Pickup     Bus      Truck
Paved      8rO6      9147     8,3(0    14.17    13!4 6
Gravel    11-77    12.88    13h45       22.069    21.19
Track     17o87    18o80    21.31       35è47    35èo88
_I/Time value not considered, calculated for average
existing alignment.
Source:
7 Rehabilitation de la Route Port-au-Prince-
Cap Haitien, Draft Final Feasibility iteport,
1973;
- Feasibility Study of the Port-au-Prince-
Les Cayes Road, 1972;
-  Appraisal Iissaon, December 197)4
February 1975



TABLE 12
HAITI
FOIJRTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analyses of Economic Returns
Construction &
Best     Strengthening   Benefit Decrease        Deletion of
Road Sections 1/        Estimate  CostsIncrease         by 25%         Generated Traffic
by 25%
1. Km O-Km 6.9            37.2        33.3                32.2                36.8
2. Km 6.9-Km 13.L         32.7        28.9                27.8                32.1
3. Km 17.7-Km 32.0        35.3        31.1                30.0                34.6
Km 43.4-Km 56.8)
4. Km 57.5-Km 59.3)       48.1        41.3                39.5               46.5
Km 60.2-Km 70.3)
5. Km 128.1-Km 141.3)    18.1         15.2                14.3                1Z.7
Km 141.3-Km 143.6)
6. Km 147.5-Km 159.4      22.2        18.1                16.9                21.2
7. Km 159.4-Xn 178.0      11.2         8.8                 8.1                11.0
8. Km 178.0-Km 201.3       8.8         6.9                 6.4                 8.6
9. Km 201.3-Km 247.4       9.9         7.3                 6.6                 9.2
10. Sonde Bridge at
Km 105.5 under the
assumption that the
old bridge will
collapse in
1982                   88.5       80.3                  78.1              85.4
1987                   53.0       48.3                 47.0               51.8
1992                   41.0       36.8                  35.7              40.4
1997                   33.8       28.5                  27.2              33.6
1-.(Tc-tal) wit.llout
Sonde   'i-^e.  2'.8       22.3                 21.4               25.1
10-9.  'totl wfith Sonderridge
under the assumption
that the old bridge
will collapse in
1982                   34.8       30.8                 29.8                33.5
1987                   29.6       26.2                 25.3               28.7
1992                   27.3       23.9                 23.0               26.6
1997                   26.2       22.6                 21.7               25.6
2/   Kilometer  references indicate the number of kilometers on the Northern Road measured
from the beginning of this highway at the outskirts of Port-au-Princce
Source:  Appraisal Mission
February 1975



ANNEX
Page 1
HAITI
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Domestic Contracting Industry
1.        Technical assistance to the domestic civil works industry under the
proposed project would continue to provide the assistance started under the
sectoral UNDP assistance as part of the Third Highway Project. The UNDP-
financed consultant was hired by the Bank, which is the Executing Agency for
the project, in March 1975, and work began in Haiti in April 1975. This
ongoing assistance is, in fact, a first phase comprising:
(a) a review and evaluation of the technical, managerial, and
financial capacity of the domestic contracting industry;
(b) a review of Government agencies involved in activities of
the civil works industry, and their role in contracting
to the private sector; this review would also cover the
role of the financial community, including the Banque
Nationale de la Republique d'Haiti;
(c) recommendations forlstandard conditions of contract and bid
documents for international competitive bidding, and for
domestic procurement, separately, with a view toward promoting
the domestic contracting industry and assuring that conditions
available to local contractors would be comparable to those
available to international contractors;
(d) the beginning of assistance to a selected group of domestic
contractors in the managerial and engineering fields;
(e) the beginning of in-service training to personnel of selected
contractors, as well as an evaluation of their further training
needs; and
(f) recommendations for additional assistance to the domestic
civil works industry.
2.        The assistance envisaged under the proposed project would concentrate
on continuing the assistance outlined under items (d) through (f) above.
More specifically, continued assistance in management would include:



ANNEX
Page 2
(a) preparation of bids, contract negotiations, and subcontracts,
including cost effectiveness and bidding strategies;
(b) improving bookkeeping, cost accounting, and other financial
controls;
(c) improving purchase procedures, stocking of equipment and
spare parts and materials; and
(d) job site organization.
3.        In addition to management, with respect to the engineering field,
the continued assistance would include:
(a) utilization and maintenance of modern construction equipment;
(b) potentials of labor-intensive construction methods under
Haitian conditions;
(c) techniques of casting and precasting simple elements such
as drainage structures for roads, sewerage and water supply
systems;
(d) identification of road construction materials available
in Haiti and their suitability for civil works, including
soil stabilization;
(e) techniques for the use of local construction materials,
including crushing, paving and the various asphaltic mixes;
(f) the use of soils and materials laboratories for quality
control; and
(g) instruction concerning international standards of
procurement, contract execution and quality control.
4.        While providing assistance, as defined under paragraphs 2 and 3
preceding, in-service training would receive special attention. In-service
training would cover each area mentioned under paragraphs 2 and 3, but
assistance should concentrate on "courses" of instruction in running soils
and materials laboratories, quality control, equipment utilization and
maintenance, and job site organization and work programming. Structured
training would become part of this program, if recommended, upon completion
of the first phase (para. 1(f)) under Credit 478-HA.
April 1975



SB R     11482
USA&      .      9                                                                                                                                      71C                                               12 7                                                72R                           MARCH 1975
ArIA NTIIC               2CIFA             ZQ                             A    T      A              N    T    C                                                                       4o  0   6 C   A  N                                                          ,no
PCA7IRAIT-JC CL AV     n A S .PORI-DE.PAIX     n       /
JAM             H A  I   T I C  HA.                                                        ELEETQ CM  ST N COLAS
P-RC                               CAP HAIRIEN
MILES                                            S C A I /  0     A N    SEA                                       6 CrdI    de  R
LI RECTE
HAITI                                                                                                                                                                                                     .5 RCRCNC,    ....            I
PROPOSED FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pg∞>4 d'.èi!-I                                           ;
PROPOSED PROJECT COMPONENTS
ROAD  RECONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                              CRACdI SRIInC'Re
SONDE BRIDGE
. SONDE  BRIDGE DETOURLCE                                                                                                                                                                                                   H-.                                        CC CC ICC-CC
/  PC            ICCI      MRILCCCAC           ~~~~'N I 
EXISTING PEATURES
-   ASPHALT ROADS0
GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                                                C|C.Rj
-I  --C   DIRT ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                      -II~<RA                                 )             IC~                 4
=  RI    DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
-  -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RIDERS                                                                                                                                                CRI                                                                              PCRC                 CC-
lo       9         ID       20        SD5                                                                                                N                                                    -
K L OMETERS                                                                                                      SAV                                  )                                             dEC                 Mr b 5 90O                           -      E
D-f  ~        ~           ~ ~                   RC~R    fc
OEonbon  JEREMIE           ~~CAPDMSCCIC                                                                 We VI 0C O  PCCRICC                                                                                          RI             C-thm∞eC-N5~~   (  n > 24' 
jRE.IEISA ARIT 
sec U X~~~~~-i dS. A O6--,xdsMsso                                                                                                                                                           s                               . .  
~~C  PCCIC  PEIIICTIRIC  ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ C7 C'S 0C  / ~~~~PORT-AD-~PRINCE                                                      CRCRICCC         P        I
ECR,IRD   H#Mp  S   U               N                                   R IP                           A-                                                                                                                                                                                            T _
*;-2 --                                                                       -d                                                                              GI,                                                     hi.,
Yt__I pE    S                          C- 9            s           dV Noi   AAvuIn t                       y        _                               o         N _ % >                          tre               ;                              /  t    /            \; 
d               C             qCh dh                          ------                            I                                      - PCIIIC,
RI  H                     C                                   11CC-A. 7E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P AR, NICC MIIC
PoLCC5CIIICRH5duJ5e0ldn   VAC///SCAV7     C       A     ,RC I                                                                             H B  B
CR/nr G692PRICC  CRB. 6                                                                                                                                                       w SI RHRCR.  r-  C  1  C- T--  C  CER
L.E∞                          C.20  7 -∞                                    73∞3U                                              75∞                                                72Ln20      /n,7fv eudenozent or ceepn¢. bw *e      73D                           98.   ,  
C-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)I C     
CCCCRCRCCC-CIEM  -                                                     ---I~\S,  - d
SIIRIRIERIRINCIt~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E PAAI-, CCI
s, j-                            C     A      A'         5     R           A~~~~ IV                 F-CC-I   SAC                                      -AC
I-n.                                            11~~~~~~RPICPRII                                C"-n--C                                                                                                                                                          sA-RIRC



I



To
Cap Haitien
G   Gonaives_-
Gu' f of               > t~                  
Gonaives
Nortbhern Road
DIAGRAM INDICATING
LOCUATION OF PONT
SONDE & PON'T ESTERE
Ponl\  LDessalines
i stere
NORTH RN
Ponm               (About, 20 Km.
Sonde               between Fonrt                      D ifficalt, but passable
Sonie Rt Pont ,stere)          I  diversion in use during
Construction of Estere
B .Bridge
To Peligre
d diffMcult rcad,
leadirLw   70 Km east-wards
to Nirebalais, where -5he
Artibonit,e is br * dged
j                   araan.
To t.M;,arc,
PorL-a.u-1<rLnc -



