Document of
The World Bank
Repor No P-5083-CM
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMlMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 9.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
June 29, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -     CFA Franc (CFAF) 1
US$ 1             =     CFAF 305
CFAF 1 million    3    US$ 3,275
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAA .. .... S       ..... ... . ... External Debt Agency
DGTC        .... Direction Generale des Travaux du
Cameroun
ISMP               ......-.Institut Sup4rieur de Management
Public
MINFI ..............                    .    Ministry of Finance
MINFOP .... .. .... Ministry of the Civil Service
MINPAT ..................     ..      ....... Ministry of Pleaning and
Territorial Development
PIP  . ......                    .      ... Public Investment Program
PMS ............. Project Management Secretariat
UDEAC ...................... Union Douanibre et Economique
en Afrique Centrale (Central
African Customs and Economic
Union)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1 The CFAF is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF1 = CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER            t   Republic of Cameroon
MAIN BENEFICIARIES  :   Ministry of Planning and Territorial Development
Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Civil Service.
The SAL Technical Committee
Technical Commission for the Rehabilitaticn of
the Public and Parapublic Enterpries Sector
AMOUNT               :   US$ 9.0 million equivalent
TERMS               t   Seventeen years, including a five-year grace
period, at the standard IBRD variable interest
rate.
ON LENDING TERMS    I   Not applicable
FINANCING PLAN      t   Government  US$  1.5 million
IBRD        US$  9.0 million
Cofinancing USS 4.0 million (to be confirmed)
TOTAL       US$ 14.5 million
ECONOMIC RATE
OF RETURN           t   Not applicable
STAFF APPRAISAL
REPORT              t   No separate report
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OP THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AN) DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR AN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.    The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to the
Republic of Cameroon for US$ 9.0 million equivalent is submitted for approval.
The proposed loan would have a maturity of seventeen years, including a five-
year grace period, at the standard variable interest rate, and would help
finance an Economic Management Project (EMP).
2.    Backsround.  The Bank Group has supported efforts to improve management
of Cameroon's economy through two technical assistance operations since 1976.
The first aimed to increase Government's capacity to manage development
projects in crucial economic sectors and to formulate viable projects for
domestic and foreign financing under the Fourth Development Plan. The second,
which closed in December 1988, continued the focus on provision of expatriate
expertise, equipment and training in key ministries and provided high level
expertise and short term consultancies in the social sectors.
3.    Cameroon now finds itself faced with a major economic crisis and
declining oil revenues. To meet the situation, the Government recently
started preparing and implementing a recovery program which will be supported
through a Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL). Preparation of the program
initially encountered difficulty due partly to the lack of coordination in the
Government and weaknesses of key directorates. The management of Cameroon's
economy is further hampered by the lack of well established guidelines and
procedures and a weak statistical data base. The proposed project is designed
to help remedy this situation and assist the Government in implementing its
structural adjustment program successfully. It has been prepared and
negotiated in tandem with the SAL, thus ensuring consistency between the two
operations.
4.    Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The combination of a serious economic
and financial crisis, the overriding need to maintain prudent economic
management and increase the share of the *aon-oil sectors in economic output
and, at the same time, implement a far-reaching reform program, places a heavy
burden on the administration. To achieve all this will require an injection
of well-targeted technical assistance with clear institution-building
objectives. In close consultation with the Bank, France, Canada, USAID and
UNDP are all preparing operations to provide this kind of assistance. The
Bank's experience in Cameroon and its comparative advantage in mobilizing and
coordinating international iupport for structural adjustment will enhance the
Government's recovery program and its implementation of key sectoral
strategies in the Cameroon economy.



2
5.    Proiect Obiectives.  The key objectives of the proposed project would be
to assist the Government: (a) formulate and implement reforms in the context
of its structural adjustment program; and (b) promote lasting, long-term
improvement in policy analysis and management of the country's economy. It
would also be expected to foster improved coordination among key Government
agencies. This is a vital need in Cameroon where such agencies have too often
worked in isolation from each other. Finally, the project would tap into the
considerable pool of national expertise through the greatest possible u6e of
Cameroonian consultants and broaden local participation in the adjustment
process. Special training programs have been designed to enhance capabilities
of Cameroonian staff in key ministries to deal more effectively with economic
management.
6.    Proiect Description.  The project would consist of priority activities
ins (a) policy analysis and macroeconomic management, in particular setting up
and applying appropriate guidelines and procedures in public investment
programming, debt management and statistical data production; and (b) reform
of the civil service as well as the large parapublic sector. These activities
ave the core of Cameroon's structural adjustment program supported by the
proposed Bank SAL.  Five specific project components have been defined and
agreed with the Government.  These are:
(i)   the establishment, monitoring and updating of a computerized
multi-year rolling investment program and support to improve
procurement procedures;
(ii) support to the reform of the national statistics system;
(iii) support to improve Cameroon's debt management;
(iv)  support for the launching of civil service reform measures --in
particular reform of the civil service regulatory framework,
restructuring of staffing requirements, reform of payroll
management-- and development of national consulting capacities;
and
(v)   support to the Technical Commission in charge of PE sector reform
and rehabilitation.
The project would also include:
(vi)  financing for consultant services and other assistance needs
identified during the early stages of project implementation and
during implementation of the adjustment program; and
(vii) financing for the equipment and operation of a Project Management
Secretariat (PMS) which would be responsible for day-to-day
administration of the proposed project and would provide general
administrative support to the SAL Technical Committee (Comite de
Preparation et de Suivi du PAS).



3
7.    Project activities aimed at strengthening the national statistics
directorate and certain aspects of the civil service reform would be
complemented and reinforced by those of the proposed Social Dimensions of
Adjustment project now under preparation.
8.    Project activities would be implemented over a period of four years.
Depending on the future evolution of Cameroon's reform efforts, the project
could be followed by further technical assistance to support subsequent stages
of the adjustment process and ensure follow-up of activities launched under
the proposed project.
9.    Benefits and Risks.  The main benefit expected to result from the
proposed project would be to facilitate and accelerate implementaticr of
Cameroon's economuc recovery. It would do this by providing assistance to key
government agencies involved in implementing the common agenda defined in
Cameroon's adjustment program and by serving as a vehicie for coordination
among these agencies. The country's trained manpower base is strong by
regional standards. It is therefore expected that the new guidelines,
procedures and systems to be set up will be rapidly mastered by nationals,
resulting in lasting improvements in economic management. The main risk
associated with the project is that, like the previous technical assistance
projects, it would not be adequately managed or coordinated in the field.
This risk is mitigated by the strong Government commitment to the structural
adjustment program in general and the proposed project in particular.
Moreover, the Bank has obtained assurances on the project management measures
specified below which are considered satisfactory. The recently strengthened
Bank Resident Mission in Cameroon would play a key role in the day-to-day
supervision of the project.
10. Actions Agreed. During negotiations, the Government agreed to:
establish the Project Management Secretariat within the SAL Technical
Committee to cover coordination of the proposed project and appoint
appropriately qualified staff with proven records to staff it. The
establishment of the PHS with the Coordinator of the SAL Technical Committee
as its head and the entry on duty of the administrator and the accountant
would be conditions of effectiveness of the loan. The Government also agreed
that: (a) beginning December 31, 1989 and at six months intervals, it would,
through the PMS, furnish proposed work plans for the execution of the project
during the following s,x months to the Bank for review and approval, and, on
the basis of semi-annual reports, exchange views with the Bank on the status
of project implementation; (b) prior to undertaking any technical assistance,
training, studies or other activity identified during implementation, it
would, through the PMS, submit detailed proposals including the justification,
plan of action and list of necessary supporting services; and (c) no later
than June 30, 1990, it would exchange views with the Bank on project funding
requirements and ways and means to fulfill them.
11. Proiect Costs and Financing. Total project costs are estimated at
USS 14.3 million equivalent, of which US$ 12.4 in foreign costs. The Bank
loan of US$ 9.0 million equivalent would finance 72 percent of foreign costs
and 62 percent of total costs. Government's contribution of approximately



4
US$ 1.5 million equivalevt would finance 10 percent of total costs.  Because
public resources are so constrained, the Government has made it clear that it
vishes to limit its financial contribution to the project to the minimum
necessary and that the availability of concessional funds is highly desirable.
For that reason, cofinancing is being actively sought. US$ 4.0 million has
been requested from the Japanese Grant Facility; the request is being
favorably considered for the current Japanese fiscal year. Such cofinancing
would finance 28 percent of total costs. Activities scheduled for early
implementation would be financed by the Bank, giving the Government time to
secure the expected cofinancing. To ensure that project financing needs are
met in a timely manner, the Government and the Bank would exchange views on
the status of funding requirements by the end of Project Year 1.
12.   Recom.L.,idation.  I am satisfied that the proposec  loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 29, 1989



-5-
SCHEDULE A
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Percent
of
Proiect Costs                       Foreign    Local       Total  Base Cost
--------(US$ million)----
PIP Support                          0.6        0.1         0.7      5S
National Statistics                  1.7        0.2         1.9      14!
Debt Management                      0.7        0.0         0.7       5Z
Civil Service Reform                 3.1        0.4         3.5      272
PE Reform                            3.7        0.5         4.2      31!
Study Fund & Other Activities        1.7        0.1        1.8       13Z
PMS                                  0.1        0.6         0.7       52
Base Costs                          11.6        1.9        13.5     1002
Total Co4tingencies                  0.8        0.2         1.0
Total Project Cost                  12.4        2.1       14.5
Notes Project V-ase Costs include US$ 500,000 in taxes.
Financing Plan
Foreisn      Local        Total
---------(US$ million)---------
Government                           0.0         1.5            1.5
IBRD                                 8.9         0.1            9.0
Other                                3.5         0.5            4.0
Total                               12.4         2.1           14.5
AP1CG
05108189



- 6 -
SCHEDULE B
Procurement Method
ICB       LCB      Other        TOTAL
------------------------_------------------------_--____-----_---__--
- US$ million -
Resident Advisers                                 1.4           1.4
(1.4)         (1.4)
10.0]         (0.01
Short Term Consultants                            7.4           7.4
(7.4)         (7.4)
(0.0)         (0.0)
Equipment                                         3.3           3.3
(0.1)         (0.1)
13.2]         (3.2]
Training 11                                       0.9           0.9
(0.1)         (0.1)
r(-8)         [0.81
Operating Costs                                   1.5           1.5
(0.0)         (0.0)
(0.01         (0.0]
TOTAL                                            14.5          14.5
(9.0)         (9.0)
14.0)         14.0]
Notes Parentheses ()s IBRD-financed; brackets II: financed by cofinancer.
---------------------------------------------------------_---_______-------
Disbursements
Cat;egory                    Amount
(US$ 000)
1.  Resident Advisers          1,100                   100Z
2.   Short Term Consult :nts    5,300                  100Z
3.  Consultant services for
activities to be
determined during
implementation of
the Project               1,150                   1OOX
4.  Training in support to
PE reform                   100                    1002
5.  Equipment in support to
PE reform                   100                     852
6.   Reimbursement PPF           350                 Amount due
7.  Unallocated                  900
TOTAL                     9.000
Estimated IBRD Disbursements                      IBRD Fiscal Year
90       91      92    93      94      95
--------------(US$ millicn)------------
Annual                        0.7       2.2   2.5   2.0    0.8      0.8
Cumulative                    0.7       2.9   5.4   7.4    8.2      9.0
----Disbursement Profile for Region---
1/ Reflects costs of logistical support to training. An additional US$ 0.7
million for training is included under IBRD financing of consultants.



-7-
SCHEDULE C
KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Identification Mission                              November, 1988
Prepared by                                        Government with Bank
assistance.
Appraisal                                           February/March,1989
Negotiations                                        May, 1989
Board Presentation                                  June, 1989
Anticipated Date of Effectiveness                   July, 1989
ApiCO
05/08/89



- 8 -
SCHEDULE 0
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIW4S IN CAMEROON
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
AS OF MARO4 29 1930
Amount In US$ milIIon
(less cancellatIons)
Loan or       Fislol                                                              Undis-     Closing
Credit No.    Year  Borrowe.         Purpose               Bank         IDA       burd i    Dnto
Credits
28 Credits cloesd                                                      243.22
C1i1so-CAM  1981   Cameroon        Technical Cooperation               10.00   .8S  12/31/88(R)
Total number Credits *      1                                            10.00   .8S
Loans
28 Loans closed)                                           346.24
.20920-CAM 1982      Cn roon         Forestry                7.00                1.95 12V81J8S(R)
L21600-CAM 1982      Csmeroqn        Oil Palm/Rubber Cons   50.80               16.98 06/80/8S
L21800-CAM  1982     Cameroon        Road V                 70.00                      08/B0/89(R)
L22590-CAM 1983      Camereon        Port III               22.50               10.21 08/30/89
L24060-CAN 1984      Comeroon        Western Province ROP   21.50               18.41 12/81/90
L24S50-CAM 1985      Caseroon        Hev eam Rubber          S.80                2.80 06/80/90
L26870-CAM 1986      Cameroo         FSAR II                25.50               21.76 12/81/91
L25640-CAM  1985     Cmeroon         Roads VI              125.00               99.09 06/10/91
U268BO-CAM 1986      Camerooe        Educ. A Voc. Train.    80.10               24.71 08/80/98
LB0180-CAU 1987      Cnmeroon        Roads VI               20.00                      08/30/91
1-27660-CAM 1987     Caneroon        Agric. Research        17.80               16.60 06/80/98
U29120-CAM 1988      Cameroon        Cocoa Rehob           103.00              103.00 21/81/94
L29990-CAM* 1989     Cameroom        Urban lI              140.00              148.00 08/30/94
L30140-CAML 1989     Camerosm        Livestock Sector Dev. 84.80                $4.60 NO80/85
TOTAL number loans * 14                                   682.10               492.95
TOTAL *-                                     1,028.84       253.22
of which repaid                              180.81        18.49
TOTAL hold by 8onk & IDA                        $981.03     iS:. f
Amount Sold     10.45
Of which repaid 8.46
TOTAL undisburned                                                    49S.8
Notes.
*   Not yet effective
*   Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding be lance represnt both active and inactive Loons and Credits.
(R)  Indicates formally revised Closing Date.
The Signing, Effective and Closing dates are based upon Loan Department official data and ore not taken from the
Task Budget file.



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January $1, 1989)
Total
Fiscal                                   Type of                             US$ MILLION         Hold
Year          Company                    Business                   Loan    Equity  Total        by IFC*       Undisbur,
1976       Bats Societe Anonym         Shoes                               0.13    0.13        0.00 O
Camerouna tso
1977/?9      S.A.F.A. Caeroun            Palo Oil A Rubber          -        1.38     1.38       ).O O
1981       S.A.C.
1979       Alucam-Compagnel            Aluminum Smelting          7.00    0.93    7.93         0.93
Camerounalso do
L'Aluminium
Pechi ney-Ugin.
1981       Societe Camerounaio         Flour Milling              1.12    0.19    1.31         0.54          -
de Minoteries
1981       Societe 'aemrounalse        Glass Container            -        0.10    0.10        0.10          -
do Verrcri.                Ianufacturing
1982       Socleto Sucriero du         Sugar Plantation           1.44    -         1.44       1.19          -
Caomeroun                  & manutacturlg ng
1965       Societe dos Palmorales    Palm Oil                     1.98    O.S      2.64        1.71          -
de la Forme Suisse
1986        Cotonniere Industrielle    Textiles                   2.98     -       2.98        3.30          -
du Caeroun (CICAM)
1986       Socloto Indust:iell.        Dairy Products             2.28    0.67    2.85         2.84          -
Laltiere du Cameroun
(SILAC)
1967       Prestige Bottling Co.       Soft Drln:.                2.73    0.80    3.03         3.03          -
1988       Societe des Plantations    Banana Plantation           1.91    0.36    2.26         2.83          0.09
Nouvellea du Penja
TOTAL                      21.44    4.61    25696       15.97         0.09
-------- - -
a Amounts stated are net of repayments, write-offt, sales, cancellations and exchange adjustments.



10
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Paae
SECTION As The Institutional Setting .............................. 11
SECTION Bs Detailed Project Description
Part 1. Support to the Public Investment Program ... 12
Part 2. Support for National Statistics .......O-* 15
Part 3. Support to Debt Management ............   18
Part 4. Civil Service Refom ....................... 22
Part 5. Public Enterprise Reform ................... 26
Part 6. Study Fund and Other Activities ......... 29
SECTION C: Project Management and Implementation .............. .... 29
SCHEDULE 1: Training ......................................  .. . 32
SCHEDULE 2:  Implementation Calendar .. ...........  ............... ... 34
Attacbments
1.   Proposed Financing Plan ............................. . 36
2.   Summary of Project Costs by
Component and Type of Expenditure    ...... .. 37



11
SECTION A: THE INSTITUTIONAL SETTIt7G
1. One of the two key objectives of the project is to provide support in
preparing and implementing the Government's structural adjustment program
where it is most needed. Overall responsibility for implementation of the
adjustment program is entrusted to an Interministerial Committee which
includes top-ranking representatives of the Presidency of the Republic, the
ministries of Finance, Plan, Industry, Agriculture, the Civil Service and
of the Central Bank.
2. Day-to-day preparation and monitoring of the adjustment program are
delegated to a Technical Committee set up for this purpose by a
Presidential Decree promulgated in December 1988.   The Technical
Committee's mandate specifically states that it is responsible for
coordination with the World Bank and the African Development Bank which is
also providing support to Cameroon's adjustment program. The Committee
includes representatives of the Presidency of the Republic, the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) and of the ministries of Finance,
Agriculture, Industry and Commerce, and Mines and Energy; the Ministry of
Planning and Territorial Development (MINPAT) has two representatives on
the Committee and the Committee chairman --the Coordinator-- is a high-
ranking official of that ministry. The project management secretariat
(PMS) will function as a Secretariat for this Technical Committee and as
the management unit for the proposed project. The mandate of the Technical
Committee is being extended to include the Secretariat and to cover
coordination of the proposed project.
3. The proposed project will finance activities in three ministriest
(i) MINPAT, where: (a) a rolling four-year public investment program is
being established; and (b) assistance will be proivided to strengthen the
capacity of the national statistics directorate at part of an effort to
upgrade the performance of the national statistics system; (ii) the
Ministry of Finance (MINFI), where assistance will be provided to make the
newly created CAA, responsible for Cameroon's public debt management, fully
operational; and (iii) the Ministry of the Civil Service (MINFOP) and
MINFI, where it will support Government efforts to reform the management of
the civil service, in particular through activities to make payroll
administration more transparent and efficient. It will also finance
activities in the Technical Commission for the Rehabilitation of the Public
and Parapublic Enterprise Sector which operates under the authority of an
Interminiaterial Committee chaired by the Secretary General of the
Presidency.
4.   Proiect Management.  The Coordinator of the SAL Technical Committee
will also be the director of the PMS. The PMS team will be composed of an
administrator, a project accountant and support staff. The accountant and
support staff may be drawn from outside the civil service and will be
provided with the logistic and other necessary resources to ensure
efficient project implementation. The team will receive training in Bank
procedures for management of technical assistance before project start-up.



12
5.   Interministerial Coordination.  The coordination of project
activities in the different ministries and agencies will be the
responsibility of the Coordinator.
SECTION B: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Part 1. Support to the Public Investment Proaram
Government Policy
6.   Cameroon's present planning and budgeting systems are not well suited
to the pursuit of rational public expenditure policies. Hitherto,
ambitious development plans that did not take sufficient account of
financial constraints and changing economic circumstances have been
formulated every five years. The world economy has become more volatile,
and an open economy like Cameroon's can find that its resource
availabilities change sharply in unexpected directions in a short t.me.
The authorities, realizing the deficiencies of the present system, have
decided to integrate the annual budgeting process into a multiyear
programming and budgeting process based on realistic estimates of resource
availability. They will supplement the Plan with a rolling four-year
public investment program (PIP). The annual updating of this program will
be coordinated with the annual preparation of the medium-term macroeconomic
forecast and the establishment of budget allocations for each of the
ministries. This will provide the basis for an annual review of the
updated PIP by the Bank as part of the structural adjustment program. Each
year, the first year of the investment program will appear as an annex to
the National Budget and will constitute binding guidelines for capital
expenditures in any given year.
Preparation of the Investment Program
7.   MINPAT's Planning Department procedures for the selection,
preparation and programming of investment projects will be strengthened.
Computerized files will be established for every project and the economic
justification of each will be evaluated. All government investments,
whether financed from the National Budget or from external resources will
be consolidated in one program. Implementation of the investment program,
irrespective of financing source, will be strictly monitored. At first,
however, the program will cover all investments in the Government's budget,
including capital expenditures of public enterprises that are financed by
the budget. In parallel, a system will be set up to monitor the
performance of public enterprises; it will be operated by the Technical
Commission for the Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises. Using this
system, the Government intends to present a consolidated public investment
program covering both government and parapublic sector investments within
two to three years.
8.   Proiect Files.  The preparation of a budget requires that more
detailed information be readily available about projects. A file (fiche)
will be established for each project in the PIP. It will contain: (i) a



13
detailed description of each project; (ii) the anticipated cost for each
year of execution; (iii) actual expenditures and disbursement of foreign
loans or grants (to be coordinated with the CAM); (iv) the project's
financing resources; and (v) a brief account of its main problems and
prospects. These files will be maintained on a personal computer, using a
commercially available database software with the capacity to aggregate the
individual "fichesD into larger tables (tableaux de bord) showings
(i) total expected and actual disbursements by year; (ii) financing by
creditor; and (iii) investmenta by sector. These, in turn, will serve as
the basis for the preparation of the rolling four-year investment program
and for monitoring financial and physical progress.
9. Selection of New Projects. The Government intends to develop
criteria for the evaluation of new project proposals and ensure that key
indicators of the anticipated impact of a project are listed in the project
description. Central to these criteria will be the level of recurrent
expenditures they entail and, for infrastructure and productive projects,
their economic rate of return. Other projects, for instance in the
education and health sectors, will be judged on the criteria of least cost,
relative impact on the recurrent budget, and consistency with sectoral
strategies.
Implementing and Monitoring the Program
10. Implementation of the Plan and of the annual investment budget has
been hampered not only by lack of resources but by lengthy and complex
procurement procedures which, apart from slowing project implementation,
have also contributed to raising costs since contractors usually include a
substantial margin in their charges to compensate for delays. The problem
has been exacerbated by the Government's reputation as a slow payer.
Increased efficiency in the area of public investments can only be achieved
if procurement and public contract monitoring procedures are made more
efficient and their cost is reduced. This will be achieved by
standardizing guidelines and procurement documents, closer monitoring of
project implementation, personnel training and changes in the relevant
regulations where necessary. To assist with this, the Government has
recently established a central agency, the Direction Generale des Travaux
du Cameroun (DGTC), within the Pre dency of the Republic.
11. Over the long term, data on the implementation of the structural
adjustment program should be recorded using the same computer software as
for the rolling four-year investment program and annual budget, so that an
integrated report on the program, its implementation and the following
year's budget can be easily produced. However, this is too ambitious a
proposal to implement in the next two to three years. In the interim,
micro-computers will be purchased and consultants brought in to design a
simple system to track project implementation based on commercially
available database management software. A format will be designed for
monitoring physical and financial progress that draws upon currently
available information. The principal sources would be: (i) the new CAA;
(ii) data on Government spending from the Budget Directorate of MINFI; and
(iii) the reports on physical progress prepared by the Projects and
Programs Department of MINPAT. In addition, a contact person should be
identified in each key technical ministry, and information sought from the



14
local representatives of the main creditors. Responsibility for this task
will be centralized in MINPAT's Projects and Programs Department which will
also take performance indicators much more into account in deciding
investment budget allocations. Five or six adequately trained
professionals will be assigned to monitor the budget. Meanwhile, MINFI and
MINPAT are in the process of preparing a joint statement on the
coordination of macroeconomic programming, setting out responsibilities for
preparation of economic forecasts (including forecasts of revenues and of
appropriate borrowing) and of the multiyear and annual investment programs,
as well as monitoring execution of the budget and the investment program.
The statement is also intended to clarify the complex inter-relationship
between the preparation of the synoptic tables (tableaux de bord) and the
investment progress reports to minimize duplication.
Project Support
12. Successful implementation of the establishment and functioning of a
system to program and monitor the rolling four-year investment program is
one of the conditions for release of the second tranche of the SAL. To
assist the Government in this effort, the project will provide MINPAT's
directorates of Planning and Programs and DGTC with the necessary resources
to help them carry out their new responsibilities under Government
guidelines for preparation and implementation of the multiyear rolling
investment program as described above. These responsibilities can be
summarized as follows:
(a) The Investment Program
-    establishment of detailed guidelines for project selection, in
particular of criteria which accord highest priority to economic
return;
-    establishment of a computerized system for the four-year rolling
investment program;
-    preparation of computerized project-by-project files for major
investments which detail the principal components, items of
expenditure, implementation difficulties encountered and
economic justification;
-    elaboration of a computerized system which allows preparation of
quarterly reports for ministries and donors on the financial and
physical implementation status of major investments projects;
-    analysis of the impact of major projects on the State's
recurrent budget;
-    preparation and carrying out of appropriate training programs;



15
(b) Procurement
-    preparation of standardized public procurement documents;
-    setting up of a training program for technical personnel
involved in procurement; and
-    an analysis and revision of procurement procedures to make them
more efficient, in particular, the feasibility of decentralizing
decision-making.
13. Technical Assistance. Throughout preparation of the adjustment
program the Government has demonstrated its preparedness to move from a
static five-year Plan system to one of a rolling multi-year investment
program. The presence of well-qualified staff in MINPAT will facilitate
the task of the consultants called in to assist in the transition to new
operational systems and procedures under the structural adjustment program.
The assistance of two short term technical experts should be sufficient.
Draft terms of reference have been agreed with Government. The experts
will be recruited for a total of 16 manmonths at a cost of US$236,000
equivalent and will be expected to train national counterparts to take over
their functions in that time frame. A further expert will be recruited for
two years for the procurement procedures assistance described above at an
approximate cost of US$275,000 equivalent. In the event further assistance
is needed for either the PIP or procurement support, it would be financed
by the project study fund.
14. Training. Short-term local training will be provided for ten staff
and financing will be made available for five candidates to participate in
seminars and workshops, some of them overseas, on project evaluation and
monitoring. A budget equivalent to US$65,000 has been allocated for that
purpose.
15. Equipment. The project will also finance two micro-computers to be
added to those already available in MINPAT and to be used in PIP
preparation and monitoring.
Part 2. Support for National Statistics
The Present Situation
16. The quality of the national statistical data base is deficient in a
number of areast ti) the base year for the Final Accounts (1977/78) is too
old; (ii) current data to facilitate monitoring of the structural
adjustment program do not exist; (iii) too much reliance is placed on the
Statistical and Fiscal Report, which covers only the modern sector and has
the further disadvantage of doubling as a fiscal document -- other tools,
such as industrial surveys, need to be developed; (iv) the calculation of
constant prices based on current prices relies too heavily on the consumer
price index for middle income families in Yaounde, the capital -- data
should be collected from other regions as well; (v) software verification
and testing before results are accepted for inclusion in the national
accounts data base is insufficiert; (vi) subsistence agriculture, rural



16
construction and informal trade are not sufficiently taken into account;
(vii) data quality control is weak; and (viii) computer equipment and
financial resources are both inadequate. These technical difficulties are
compounded by institutional constraints.
Government Obiectives and Action Proaram
17. The Government realizes that the output of the national statistics
directorate needs to be more consistent, relevant, accurate, objective and
timely. The Government has set for itself the following goalss (i)
formulation of a national policy on statistics which aims at improving the
management of the nation's economy with emphasis on improvement of national
accounting; (ii) development of series of leading indicators and quarterly
statistics; (iii) coordination of data processing among all agencies
dealing with national statistics; (iv) adoption of a uniform system of
concepts, definitions. classifications and methods; (v) establishment of
administrative statistics and their inclusion at all levels of the national
statistics system; and (vi) development of a collaborative approach between
producers and users of statistical data.
18. To achieve the abcve objectives, the Government realizes that it
needs to take the following accompanying measures in a timely manner, which
it plans to do e' its own: (i) a National Statistics Council and a working
level National Coordinating Committee will be established; (ii) tasks will
be assigned within the Administration according to sectors -- agricultural,
industrial, etc. -- to avoid duplication of effort; (iii) the use of the
UDEAC Accounting System (Plan Comptable) will be made mandatory for all
companies operating in Cameroon. At present, various systems are used and
this further hampers the development of a smoothly functioning national
statistics system; (iv) priority will be given to producing the national
accounts data base in a timely fashion. At present, these data are only
partial and processing is slow and subiect to error; and (v) priority will
be given to producing statistical data to be used in improving the
functioning of the Administration with component break-downs and
input/output relationships to be used for the national accounts. All
census, survey and study results will be included in the national system
data base and be organized and managed at both the macro and micro levels.
Proiect Support
19. The particular difficulty encountered in preparation of the
structural adjustment program and general management of Cameroon's economy
is due partly to the lack of reliable statistical data. A remedy for this
situation is urgently needed and would be provided by successful
implementation of the action program described above, which calls for
provision of physical and financial resources linked to an appropriate
training program for Cameroonian staff. The project will support the
government action program in the most effective way possible through
financing of consultant services, training and equipment.
20. Phasing of the Support Program. The program will be implemented in
two phases to maximize its chances of bringing about real reform in the
system. The first phase will consist of improvements in organization, data
processing, and statistical methodology and of national accounts data



17
collection, particularly in the informal sectdr which is rapidly gaining in
importance as the crisis in the formal sector grows. The second phase will
begin when the improvements expected under the first phase are in place.
It will consist of defining and setting up a data bank and adding to the
Department of Statistics' inventory of computer equipment. The details of
implementation of the second phase, particularly with regard to defiuing
equipment needs, would be worked out during the first phase by a Data Base
specialist (Post # 3) under the authority of a Statistical Systems
Management specialist (Post # 1) who would be responsible for coordinating
all statistics technical assistance. Phase II is expected to begin about
one year after the beginning of Phase I.
21. Technical Assistance. While it will be necessary to hire some
expatriate assistants, in particular for training and for operational and
computerization aspects, national consultants would also be recruited to
provide expert assistance under this component.
Post # 1: A Statistics Systems Management specialist with counselling
and training responsibilities will draw up a master plan
and help organize the entire national statistics
information system. Contract: 1 to 2 years (US$274,000
equivalent, for two years).
Post t2: A National Accounts specialist with counselling and
training responsibilities for improvement of national
accounts keeping. He will be in charge of preparing and
supervising survey operations designed to collect
information on key economic activities (transportation,
urban informal sectors, forestry, etc.) and will develop
series of current and leading indicators. Contracts 3
years (US$413,000 equivalent).
Post # 3: A Data Base specialist, with responsibility for preparing a
concrete plan of action for setting up the computerizeu
data bank to be carried out under post # 4. Contract: 6
months (US$88,000 equivalent).
Post t 4: A second Data BAse Specialist, to be recruited in Phase II,
will be responsizle for the implementation of the data base
configuration appropriate for economic policy analysis, for
technical staff training and for planning functions
(follow-up of mission described in post # 3). Contract: 1
to 2 years (US$274,000 equivalent, for two years).
Post descriptions for all the above experts have been discussed and agreed
with Government.
22. Equipment. The regional statistical offices are properly staffed but
lack the basic necessary equipment. Under Phase I, the project will
provide support to five of the ten regional offices: Bertoua, Maroua,
Ngaoundere, Ebolowa and Buea. The remaining five offices will be assisted
by the proposed SDA project presently under preparation. The combined
assistance under the project and under the SDA operation will provide the
necessary support to the regional offices in producing their main outputs,



18
namely price index data and economic surveys. A standard list of
equipment, including a micro-computer, has been agreed upon and will be
used as a reference to determine the needs of each of the regional offices.
Based on the list of equipment presently available in the five offices, a
budget equivalent to US$262,000 has been allocated to finance complementary
needs.
23. Government has requested financing for additional computer equipment
for the central office in Yaounde. Such support would be provided under
Phase II following an assessment of specific needs by the Systems
Management specialist and if these needs are justified. The Bank presently
believes that further equipment will not be nieeded if, following completion
of the on-going census expected in mid-1990, equipment of the census
directorate is transferred to the general statistics Yaounde office.
24. Traininx. The project will put heavy emphasis on on-the-job training
and local seminars to be organized with assistance from local training
institutions. A budget equivalent to US$121,000 has been allocated to
finance the training program prepared and agreed with Government.
25. The project will further assist the national statistics directorate
by financing seminars for business managers to alert them to the problems
the Government faces in collecting statistical data and to bridge the
information gap between the statistics directorate and the business
community. Three such seminars are planned over a three year-period at an
estimated cost of US$20,000 equivalent.
Part 3. Support to Debt Manaaement
Background
26. The Government has in the past followed a cautious policy on use of
external resources, as a result of which the amount of public and publicly-
guaranteed foreign debt rose slowly.  However, Cameroon now faces heavy
financing needs if it is to restructure the economy and relaunch growth.
As petroleim sector revenues and prices for Cameroon's major agricultural
export commodities continue to drop, only limited amounts of financing for
arrears payments, for restructuring or for new investment can be met from
domestic resources. Tight control and sound man;tement of debt will be
necessary in the future.
27. The present ratio of public debt service both to revenues and to
exports is about 25 percent. However, with financing needs and foreign
borrowing increasing, the ratio of public debt service (including debt to
the IMF and service on the financing gap) to exports would increase to
about 35 percent by 1993. This increase from the 24 percent level of
1988t89 would be disturbing. Thus, as part of the structural adjustment
program, the Government is making every effort to: (i) improve the
efficiency with which government funds are used to obtain more growth from
each franc invested; (ii) incorporate PE investment into the investment
planning process; and (iii) monitor the debt situation more efficiently and
more closely than in the past. The PIP component of the project will



19
address the first two objectives. The third objective is the focus of
attention under the present project component.
Debt Manaxement and the CAA
28. Government Polics. The Government hopes to mobilize increased
external resources for its economic recovery program and at the same time
keep its indebtedness within manageable limits. An Autonomous Debt Agency,
the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), was established within MINFI by
Presidential Decree in 1985 and the present director was named in 1987.
29.  CAA Management Obiectives.  The Government's policy sets the following
objectives for the CAA in monitoring direct public debts
. management of debt agreements
. monitoring of the projected payments schedule
. management of debt service payments
. monitoring of outstanding amounts
For monitoring of publicly guaranteed debt, the objectives are as follows:
. management of public guarantees
d definition of the conditions for such guarantees
, monitoring of public sector enterprises, in particular with
regard to their debt capacity, through periodic surveys.
30. In addition, the CAA will be responsible fort ti) statistical
monitoring of the private debt through periodic surveys; (ii) upstream
management of interfacing with other systems through monitoring of HINPAT
investment projects; (iii) downstream management through providing
information to the Accounting and Treasury Monitoring modules;
(iv) forecasting of debt service and disbursements for both direct and
State guaranteed debt; and (v) assistance to high level decision makers in
the form of information yielded by simulation and statistics modules.
The Existing Debt ManaRement Situation
31. The Institutional Setting. Although the debt office is now officially
known as the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, to date, largely due to the
lack of adequate resources, it continuee to function simply as a
directorate of the Ministry of Finance and does not have the necessary
autonomy or capacity implied by its new designation. One major
disadfantage of the present setup is the delay involved in making debt
payments and in timely communication with creditors. Another results from
the division of debt management responsibilities between the Planning
Ministry and the debt office. The debt office needs to become involved in
the planning process much earlier, before sources of financing are agreed
upon. The existing debt office is hampered by a serious lack of resources
which is felt at various levels: much needed office equipment is in short
supply; few offices have the air conditioning needed for operation of new
computer equipment; and few staff have access to outside telephone lines,
compounding communication difficulties.



20
32. Data on the financial viability of public enterprises with government-
guaranteed debt are inadequate or simply non existent. This makes any
accurate evaluation of the State's risk or the financial management of this
risk extremely difficult. Information and monitoring systems which allow
the debt office to follow the financial situation of public enterprises
which have, or are likely to contract, State guaranteed debt are urgently
needed.
33. Existing Procedures. The Debt Directorate does not rely on its
computer system for daily loan operations, nor for most of its statistical
data. Virtually all debt data recording, calculation and reporting is
still done manually. The computer system is used to prepare certain
listings and for cross checking, but cannot be relied upon for more than
this because its data base is incomplete and contains many errors. World
Bank debt reportb are prepared from handwritten debt records and existing
manual systems and procedures are judged adequate for this purpose.
However, there are institutional and procedural weaknesses in the debt
office that need to be ad.Aressed to improve the timeliness of debt data and
improve debt management in general. The debt office possesses a large and
complex set of computer programs for debt management, written initially by
foreign consultants, and subsequently elaborated on by a Cameroonian expert
member of the debt office staff. These programs are written in BASIC, a
language not often used for financial operations and which involves the use
of multiple files and reference tables. The system is able to project
future schedules of debt service but several flaws need to be .ddressed.
Thesa Includes (i) inadequate documentation -- the user guide dates from
1985 and does not reflect the many system changes made since then;
(ii) there is no comprehensive description of the reports produced by the
system; and, consequently, (iii) some of the system's features are unknown
to local staff; (iv) training for the computer system users has been
inadequate, in part because of the lack of up-to-date documentation; and
(v) there are errors in the debt data base.
Project Support to the CAA
34. The Government's plan to make the CAA operational is embodied in the
SAL. The proposed project will assist the Government in gradually
transforming the present debt office into a truly autonomous institution
capable of assuming all responsibilities related to national debt
management.
35. Technical Assistance. CAA's most immediate need is for appropriate
information and managament systems. The first priority is to study the
appropriate structure, organization and procedures for the CAA. The study
will start with an audit of the debt office and will establish a master
plan, a stLffing plan and training programs to be implemented in a second
phase.  This study is now underway with PPF financing.  It will take six
manmonths (US$88,000 equivalent).
36. At the same time, the data base should be cleaned up as an equally
urgent task. To do this, the proposed project contains provision fo.- a
six-month mission (cost: US$88,000 equivalent) by a knowledgeable systems
analyst, preferably one who has already worked on the Cameroon system. The
mission will specifically: (i) update the existing system user's guide;



21
(ii) set up appropriate procedures to check data quality; and (iii) prepare
and implement training programs for Cameroonian counterparts and users of
the system. This mission is also underway with PPF financing.
37.  Equipment.  The project will provide financing to cover the immediatt
needs of the CAR in the form of two portable computers, software,
maintenance of an existing compr4er and other material needs (total costs
US$39,000 equivalent).
38. In addition to the support proposed above for immediate improvements
to the existing computerized debt system, the project would help the CAA
determine needs in the areas of new computer hardware and software and in
financing these needs. Looking ahead to the CAA's longer term neads, new
hardware and software equipment is required to modernize and improve not
only debt data management but several other office functions as well. The
Government favors a new IBM mini-computer that supports numerous work
stations to replace the present Thompson Micromega line. However, the
findings of the master plan on debt office procedures and data processing
requirements must be available before any hardware decisions are made. The
master plan will include the terms of reference of a specific study of the
CAA's long term computer equipment rAeds.  That study will examine future
computerization needs from several perspectives and make recommendations on
system design, hardware selection, maintenance and location, new procedures
to ensure smooth integration into the daily operation of the CAA, and
training programs. The study should not require more than three manmonths.
Implementation of the recommendations of the study, once approved by
Government and the Bank, would be financed by the project study/equipment
fund.
39. The new CAA systems will be implemented in phases so that staff can
become familiarized with them over time. In this way, errors or omissions
in planning or training can be identified and corrected before the entire
system is fully implemented.
40. Training. With the adoption of new information and management
procedures and systems, consultants to be recruited under the project will
prepare --and in most cases carry out-_ training programs for CAM computer
operators and users. A budget of US$262,000 equivalent has been allocated
for training.
41. For users of the system, training will cover areas such as debt
management and computer applications, in particular, for user counterparts
of the computer specialists. At a higher level, training is also needed
for senior managers in the use of debt data in macroeconomic analysis, and
in advanced financial management techniques, especially in connection with
debt rescheduling.
42. For operators, activities will include training in methodology,
hardware, computer applications and programming languages. The Cameroonian
expert who runs the computerized debt system is competent. An additional
staff member will be added to the computer systems unit to work with the
consultant and the Cameroonian expert on strengthening the existing system
and improving the accuracy of the data base. He will receive overseas
training for one year and be expected to serve as a backup system manager



22
when the Cameroonian expert is absent. To satisfy the long-term needs of
the CAA, three Cameroonians will receive appropriate computer
analysisiprogramming training abroad for a period of one to three years.
43.  ImDrovements in Monitoring of Guaranteed Debt. The project will
finance a study, the terms of reference of which have been prepared and
agreed with Government, on procedures which in the future must be applied
before Government gives any guarantee for public enterprises borrowing and
procedures to improve collection and monitoring of guaranteed debt. The
study will require two to three manmonths of consultant services (US$44,000
equivalent). Implementation of the recommendations of the study, once
approved by the Government and the Bank, would be financed under the
project by the study fund.
44. The project will further assist the CAA in financing seminars for PR
managers to alert them to the problems the Government presently faces in
monitoring the guaranteed debt situation.  Such seminar' will also be
designed to bridge the information gap between the CAA and the
beneficiaries of Government guarantee. A budget of US$65,000 equivalent
has been allocated to cover the costs of the seminars and an additional
US$33,000 equivalent to cover logistical support for monitoring activities
in the field.
Part 4. Civil Service Reform
Background
45. In the period from 1983184 to 1987/88, Cameroon's civil service has
grown increasingly costly while its efficiency and productivity have
remained low. The wage bill rose by about one third during this period (to
total over CFAF 260 billion), the number of people on the public payroll
increased by about lOZ (to total rearly 180,000) and the share of the
public payroll in Government operating expenditures and non-oil tax revenue
climbed to 56Z and 68Z respectively.
Government Policy
46. The Government has taken preliminary measures to limit these
expenditures through a computerized wage bill control system (svsteme
Antilope). Results so far are encouraging, particularly in tracking down
unjustified wage and benefits payments. In addition, the Government intends
to limit the wage bill to CFAF 236 billion in FY 1989/90 as a key element
of the IMF stabilization program and the SAL. Other SAL measures to limit
personnel expenditures will includes (i) a restrictive recruitment policy;
(ii) an early retirement system; (iii) the consolidation of 'syst&me
Antilope'; (iv) reform of the social benefits system; and (v) a staff
reduction program.
47. On the other hand, the present economic crisis is compounded by a
heavily bureaucratic public management system which makes it difficult for
Government to attract or retain needed staff. Under the SAL, the
Government will adopt a program to address this problem. The program will
includes (i) reform of the civil service regulatory framework;



23
(ii) strengthening personnel management; (iii) a national roster for
administrative consulting capacity; and (iv) definition of an adequate in-
service training policy.
Proiect Sumort
48. The civil service reform component of the proposed project will help
the Government implement this program. The proposed project will include
the following actions, all of which are embodied in the SAL as measures the
Government intends to take by fixed dates: Ci) an operational review of key
ministries; (ii) reform of the civil seriice regulatory framework;
(iii) payroll management reform; and (iv) a plan of action to make more
efficient use of existing human resources.
49. This support to civil service reform over the three year period of
the project is intended to provide Government with key diagnostic studies
and actions plans to be implemented over the long run. Additional support
will probably be needed to carry out the action plans to completion. This
could be done in a possible follow-up operation financed by the sank and
other donors who have expressed interest in participating in the subsequent
stages of the civil service reform.
50. The terms of reference for consultants and budget allocations for
consultant services, training programs and equipment mentioned below have
been prepared and agreed with Government.
51. Review of Key Ministries. The Government intends to carry Out an
operational review of all ministries. As a first step, the proposed
project will focus on a strategy to review the structure, staffing and
operating budgets of selected key ministries. The operational review will
be done in two phases. The first will consist of a study to: Ci) evaluate
the existing structure and identify staffing and other needs; and
(ii) formulate recommendations for restructuring, staffing plans and
adequate operating budgets for each ministry appropriate to its role in the
economy. Once the recommendations arising from the first phase have been
adopted, the second phase, implementation, will begin and will include the
physical reorganization of the ministries and the selection of staff.
Implementation is a SAL covenant. The project will finance consultant
services to carry out the review and prepare organizational charts and
staffing plans as part of first phase activities. In the second phase, the
concerned agencies will implement the recommendations of the staffing
plans. It is not expected that this will require input from the project
but if it did, sufficient provision exists in the project study fund to
assist with technical assistance as needed.
52. The objectives of the new organizational charts will be to:
Ci) optimize the ministry's administrative units; and (ii) rationalize and
streamline internal procedures and internal information flows. They will
identify all positions which carry administrative responsibilities. The
staffing plans will include the nominal list of current staff and propose a
list of positions, together with the professional profiles they require.
They will also detail the requirements for executive positions to be
maintained under the recommended new structure together with selection
methods and criteria. Once selection has taken place and Government is



24
ready to start implementation, agents who have become redundant will be
assigned to the Ministry of Civil Service for a limited time during which
they may either await reassignment within the administration or resign from
the civil service. Estimated operating budgets will be established in line
with the minimum financial needs for the ministry in question to operate
efficiently and will include personnel and equipment recurrent costs. A
list of budgetary requests will consequently be forwarded to MINFI, to be
included in the annual provisions. The redeployment operation as such will
not be part of the proposed project. It will be conducted in conjunction
with a private sector redeployment program to be supported under an SDA
operation now in preparation. The program will be designed to help ex-
civil servants, individuals who will lose their jobs as the result of the
PE sector reform and graduates of higher education institutions to identify
opportunities in the private sector, either through new employment or
through creation of their own small business.
53. The key ministries in which the operational review will be carried
out as a first priority ares (i) the Ministry of Finance (MINFI); (ii) the
Ministry of Planning (MINPAT); (iii) the Ministry of Civil Service
(MINFOP); and (iv) the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Subsequently,
after satisfactory progress has been shown in the review of the first group
of ministries, work will start on a second group which will include the
ministries of Health, Education and Agriculture. The Government intends
eventually to examine ths restructuring possibilities in all ministries.
The project does not concain specific provision for funding other than for
ministries listed above, but in case additional resources are neet.ed during
project implementation, they could be provided from the project study furd.
54. Short term national as well as foreign consultants will carry out the
review of ministries at an estimated cost of US$410,000 equivalent
(approximately 25 manmonths).
55. Reform of the Civil Service Regulatorv Framework. A study (ten
manmonths, US$164,000 equivalent) will be carried out by public sector
specialists financed under the proposed project to evaluate the present
regulatory framework, analyze its shortcomings and make recommendations for
the harmonization of statutes; selective recruitment; review of the
compensation structure; individual performance evaluation systems; career
rehabilitation; performance-based compensation, benefits and promotion
systems; disciplinary procedures for non-performance; and new provisions
for retirement.
56. Ten seminars are planned for administrative executives to discuss the
study findings and participate in its finalization before implementation.
(Estimated cost: US$100,000 equivalent).
57. Payroll Management Reform. Personnel management involves MINFOP for
administrative management, MINFI, for financial management and the sectoral
ministries, for day to day ministerial staff management. The proposed
project will provide support to the Directorates of the Payroll and of the
Treasury in MINFI and to the General Directorates (Directions des Affaires
G6n6rales) in the sectoral ministries. It will finance consulting services
for organization and computerization studies, data processing system
development and training, and computer equipment, furniture, supplies and



25
maintenance. The expected impact of these activities would be tos
li) establish a comprehensive, timely accurate, and efficient data
processing management system, (ii) upgrade staff skills; and (iii) produce
savings in the wage bill. Project support will specifically includes
Technical Assistance:
Post # 1. A public management expert for the reorganization of
the payroll management system within Payroll and Treasury and
its extension to key sectoral ministries, including
consolidation of the uAntilope" wage bill control system and its
transfer to Directorate of the Payroll. (Costs six manmonths;
US$100,000 equivalent);
Post # 2. Experts for setting up a computerized payroll
budgeting system. Studies will include an assessment of computer
equipment needs to be financed under the project. (Twenty-six
manmonths, of which 50 percent local consultants; US$320,000
equivalent);
Post # 3. Computer software experts to provide the necessary
complementary backing to Post # 2. Posts 2 and 3 could be parts
of the same bidding operation. (Forty manmonths of which 50
percent local consultants; USS498,000).
Post # 4. A public management and computer expert for the
development of a personnel management information system. (Pour
manmonths; US$65,000 equivalent).
Training:
Personnel in the concerned directorates will be trained to use
the new procedures and computer systems. A US$80,000 equivalent
training budget has been allocated for that purpose.
Equipment:
The project would finance equipment needs to be identified by
experts (Post 1 2). A budget of US$1,600,000 equivalent has
been allocated for that purpose on the assumption that such
needs would include a mainframe computer and five micro-
computers.
58. Human Resource Mobilization. A key project objective is to tap into
the pool of national expertise through the greatest possible use of
Cameroonian consultants and specific assistance to increase their
participation in the adjustment process is included, It is expected that
national consultants will participate in all project components but
particularly in the Civil Service and PE reform activities. As much as 200
manmonths of national consultant services could be hired in the course of
the proposed project.
59. The Directorate of Human Resources in MINPAT has started to draw up a
roster of consulting capacities within the civil service. The Government



26
intends to use this roster to increase the possibilities for involvement of
Cameroonian firms and individuals in development projects and the
structural adjustment program. The proposed project will support this
effort through the provision of technical assistance and computer equipment
tot (i) complete the roster; and (ii) organize training seminars for
Cameroonian consultants with the assistance of the Federation of African
Consultants, an Abidjan-based panafrican organization which benefits from
substntial AfDB assistance.  To complete the roster, five manmonths of
local consultant services (US$25,000 equivalent) and computer equipments
(US$29,000 equivalent) will be financed under this project component. The
seminars will be organized to: (i) inform national consultants of the role
Government wants them to play in development; (ii) give guidance on
practical ways in which they can participate more actively in development
projects and the adjustment program; and (iii) identify and provide for
specific training which national consultants may need. Such seminars will
take place as often as needed and will be financed from the project study
fund. The estimated cost of a seminar is US$50,000 equivalent, including
participation of two specialists from the Federation of African
Consultants.
Part 5. Public Enterprise Reform
Background
60. In 1986, the Government decided to undertake a comprehensive review
of the public and parapublic sector and created a special task force to do
so. The task force has a two-tier organizational structures the first is
an Interministerial Committee chaired by the Secretary General of the
Presidency and including the ministers of Plan, Finance and of key line
ministries; the second is a Technical Commission comprised of a president
and ten members, of whom six are concerned only with the banking sector.
The four other members come from various ministries and, at present, work
only part-time on public enterprise issues. The commission is the
technical arm of the task force and is responsible fors
-    Performing diagnostic studies of the 150 enterprises in the
sector;
-    Presenting an analysis of each enterprise to the
Interministerial Committee which then decides whether to
rehabilitate, privatize or liquidate the enterprise;
-    Preparing restructuring plans for each enterprise to be
rehabilitated;
-    Transforming these restructuring plans into performance
contracts which are negotiated and signed by the Government and
the enterprise management;
-    Monitoring the implementation of these performance contracts,
and serving on the Board of each public enterprise;



27
-    Assisting the privatization and liquidation of enterprises that
fall into these categories;
-    Assessing the macroeconomic, legal and institutional constraints
which inhibit public enterprise sector performance; and
-    Preparing new legislation to improve the macroeconomic, legal
and institutional environment of the sector.
61. In early 1988, consultants financed by UNDP and the World Bank
prepared diagnostic studies of the 75 enterprises (including in the banking
sector) considered the bigge.t drain on the budget. The Technical
Commission presented the conclusions of these studies to the
Interministerial Committee which decided which enterprises should be
rehabilitated, privatized or liquidated. UNDP funds and about $250,000 in
PPF funds for the proposed project are now being used to hire consultants
to prepare restructuring plans for about 40 enterprises to be
rehabilitated. Most of these studies are currently being completed. In
addition, studies have been commissioned on: (i) methods of privatizing
public enterprises; (ii) the definition of a rational strategy for
Government ownership of public enterprises; (iii) taxation policies;
(iv) the liberalization of commerce; and (v) the social dimensions of
public enterprise restructuring. Cameroonian lawyers will be contracted to
translate these rehabilitation plans into performance contracts and to
draft legislation ons (i) a new general law and statutes to govern public
enterprises; (ii) a new labor code; (iii) commercial policy; and (iv) the
privatization of public enterprises. This proposed legislation will be
presented at the November-December 1989 meeting of the National Assembly.
Proiect Support
62.   The Technical Commission is faced with a major restructuring task.
To achieve the goals set out for it, it will need substantial short term
technical assistance and consultant services. Furthermore the Commission
has, to date, been operating on a shoestring budget with no provision for
transport, communications or basic secretarial and logistic support. The
proposed project will thus provide assistance to Government in implementing
the above PE reform measures which are embodied in the SAL program, the
more crucial ones as conditions of second tranche release.
63. Project assistance will be strictly limited to providing support to
the Technical Commission. It will not be used to benefit enterprises
directly. The project would provide funding to help redress deficiencies
mentioned above and strengthen the Commission during the next two years of
operation. Thereafter, it is expected that the Commission would be
supported by a future PE project to finance both ongoing technical
assistance needs and PE investment costs.
64. Technical Assistance. The project will provide short-term technical
assistance to perform diagnostic studies and, when appropriate,
rehabilitation plans for the second group of 75 enterprises. Approximately
45 enterprises will be examined by external consultants, 30 by Technical
Commission members. This task is estimated to take about 100 manmonths and
to cost about US$2.0 million.



28
65. The Technical Commission is responsible for monitoring the
performance of public enterprises. To facilitate this task, it will be
necessary to design a management information system: about six manmonths of
consultant services will be provided at a cost of approximately US$120,000
equivalent.
66. The Technical Commission will also need to hire consultants to carry
out special studies some of which have already been identified and include:
(i) in-depth analyses of certain enterprises which will be cutting their
payroll by several hundred employees and identifying ways to mitigate the
potentially negative social impact of this action; (ii) examining the
relationship of the oversight ministry, the Board of Directors and the
management of selected public enterprises and clarifying their relations on
a case-by-case basis; and (iii) analyzing how the marketing activities of
ONCPB and other agricultural marketing enterpeises might be improved.
About 20 manmonths, half international and half national, of consultants'
services have been budgeted under the project for these studies at an
approximate cost of US$280,000.
67. Short-term technical assistance to be provided under the project in
support of rehabilitation, privatization or liquidation of 150 enterprises
will total about 90 manmonths, of which about half will be provided by
Cameroonian experts, and will cost about US$1.3 million equivalent.
Assuming that the Government decides to liquidate or privatize about 50
enterprises, the Technical Commission will be responsible for monitoring
the restructuring of about 100 enterprises. Accordingly, one third of the
support to be provided under the project would be earmarked for the
services of sectoral specialists to help with supervision of restructured
enterprises and the remaining two thirds for assistance from lawyers,
auditors, liquidators and other specialists with the privatization and
liquidation exercises.
68. Equipment. Vehicles and Training. Logistic support funded by the
project would include five vehicles, office equipment and supplies (cost:
approximately US$145,000 equivalent). Public enterprise restructuring
efforts in other countries have shown the need for seminars to discuss the
reforms. Such seminars identified to date include: (i) an explanation of
the new legal and institutional framework governing public enterprises;
(ii) a more specific seminar on the performance contract system to be
attended by managers of specific public enterprises and representatives of
the oversight ministries; and (iii) a discussion of the privatization of
certain public enterprises with potential private investors, foreign and
domestic. Training for Technical Commission members, mainly attendance at
foreign seminars on PE reform, has also been budgeted (ten trips over two
years). The total cost of these activities is estimated at about US$70,000
equivalent.
69. Government Counterpart Contribution. The first prerequisite to
enabling the Technical Commission to carry out its responsibilities
efficiently is to place its five part-time members on full-time status.
This will obviate the need for long-term technical assistance during the
next two years. A secretary and administrative assistant to work full-time
for the President of the Technical Commission and gasoline for vehicle



29
operation are also needed. In addition, the Government should continue to
provide office space and a conference room. A small information center is
needed to organize and store the rapidly multiplying documents used by the
Technical Commission as well as a small budget to enable the Commission to
purchase appropriate publications and books. The Government's contribution
to the project would also fund subsistence travel needs for Technical
Commission members, including those from the private sector who are members
of the subgroup on banking. Assurances that the above needs will be
supplied from the Government's contribution to the project were obtained at
negotiations.
Part 6. The Study Fund and Other Activities
70. The project contains provision for funding of consultant services,
training or equipment needs not clearly identified at the moment or
expected to arise in the course of project and adjustment program
implementation. Approximately US$1.8 million equivalent has been allocated
to finance such needs. The Government has agreed that prior to undertaking
any technical assistance, training or studies or acquiring any equipment to
be financed under this component, it will submit detailed proposals to the
Bank for its approval.
71. Instances of prcject needs not clearly identified at the moment can
be found in reference to the Debt and Statistics activities. The project
will support a study of the CM 's structure, organization and procedures
which will lead to the drawing up of a master plan which will result in
recommendations on the CAA's equipment, training and, possibly, technical
assistance needs. Similarly, a master plan will be drawn up for the
national statistics services. Subject to approval by the Bank, financing
for implementation of the priority recommendations of both these master
plans would be provided under this component of the project. The project
will also provide funding for studies on price and trade liberalization
which the Government has agreed to carry out as pait of the SAL.
SECTION C: PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
72. The Proiect Management Secretariat. A project management secretariat
(PMS) will be established to function as the Secretariat for the SAL
Technical Committee and as the management unit for the proposed project.
The PMS's mandate, staffing and position descriptions were initially
discussed with Government during project preparation and were agreed at
negotiations. During negotiations, Government also agreed that the mandate
of the SAL Technical Committee will be extended to cover coordination of
the proposed project. The establishment of the PMS with the Coordinator of
the SAL Technical Committee as its head and the entry on duty of its
administrator and accountant are conditions of loan effectiveness.
73.  The PMS will be composed of a limited number of professionals and
will have a structure and mar.date allowing it to act quickly and
efficiently to meet project management needs and facilitate project
implementation. Specifically:



30
-    the PMS will operate under the authority of the full-time SAL
Technical Committee Coordinater who will be able to communicate
on the Government's behalf with the World Bank. The Coordinator
will retain his existing responsibilities on the SAL Technical
Committee. It will therefore be necessary for him to delegate
responsibility for day to day project management to an
Administrator;
-    The Proiect Administrator will work full-time for the project
and be responsible for: (i) coordination of the work programs
and national counterpart training programs prepared by experts
working under project financing; and (ii) the preparation of
six-monthly reports which set out in detail the concrete
achievements made under the project and compare these to
projected achievements for the period, give a calendar of
actions for the next six months and specify the measures needed
to fulfill it;
-    the Administrator will be assisted by a Project Accountant
recruited on a full-time basis to manage the project office,
keep project records, coordinate project activities and
facilitate implementation as needed. He or she should have
management and accounting qualifications; and
the PHS will also recruit support personnel --a secretary,
chauffeur, messenger or other such staff as may be necessary for
the efficient operation of the PHS.
74. The PMS will be provided with the financial and material resources
necessary to carry out its mandate in the most effective way. PMS staff
salaries, equipment and operating costs will be financed from Government's
counterpart contribution to the project. A seminar in relevant Bank
procedures and practices, financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan,
will be organized in Washington as part of project start-up. The seminar
will focus, among other things, on agreed methods for recruitment and
periodic evaluation of locally and internationally recruited technical
assistance. A smaller seminar will be organized in Project Year 2 to draw
the lessons learned from project implementation to date and agree on a
timetable for implementation of remaining project activities.
75. Coordination. Coordination with the Ministries of Planning, Civil
Service and Finance and between the SAL Technical Committee and the PE
Technical Commission, all of which will carry out key project components,
will be the responsibility of the Coordinator. Within each participating
ministry or agency, a designated official will be responsible for liaison
with the PHS and the SAL .echnical Committee to coordinate project
activities in that ministry or agency.
76.  Procurement.   The Bank and the Government attach high priority to
mobilizing Cameroonian expertise which is considerable by regional
standards. It is not possible, however, to rely entirely on the local
market to supply the expertise needed for all project activities. The
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of all



31
consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for the use of consultants.
77. Purchases to be financed from the proposed loan are not large enough
to attract international competition. Contracts for office equipment,
computers and vehicles to be financed from the loan valued in excess of
US$30,000 equivalent and up to a cumulative total of US$100,000 equivalent
will be awarded on the basis of local procurement procedures acceptable to
the Bank; those for equipment and vehicles to be financed by the cofinancer
will be awarded in accordance with the cofinancer's procurement procedures.
Procurement of small items financed from the Bank loan and estimated at
less than US$30,000 equivalent will be done by shopping after solicitation
of quotations from no fewer than three suppliers eligible under Bank
guidelines. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Schedule B.
78. Disbursement. The project is expected to disburse over a six year
period. All disbursements would be fully documented except for payments
against contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent, which would be made on
the basis of SOEs and retained in the PMS office for review by IPRD
supervision missions and independent auditors. Disbursement arrangements
are summarized in Schedule B.
79. Revolving Fund. To expedite implementation, the Government will
establish a Special Account at a Cameroonian bank to be operated as a
revolving fund for the Bank's contribution to the project. This account
will be financed with an initial deposit of US$300,000 equivalent from the
proposed loan upon presentation of a withdrawal application and replenished
in amounts equivalent to US$100,000 on the basis of fully documented
reimbursement applications except for contracts under US$50,000 equivalent,
which will be replenished on the basis of SOEs.
80. The PHS will be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications and
SOEs to be submitted to the Bank by the CAA and will indicate on the SOEs
the nature and origin of any goods and the payment date. These would be
retained along with all other supporting relevant documentation (invoices.
evidence of shipment, customs declarations, evidence of payment, etc.) for
review by Bank supervision missions and by the independent auditors. In
addition, the PMS will maintain records not only of project expenditures,
but also of commitments, reimbursements and the status of project funds.
These will be managed by the project Administrator, in accordance with
accepted accounting principles. At negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the project financial accounts will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports sent to the Bank no
later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
81.  Renorting and Monitorina.  In addition to the semi-annual progress
reports and training and work programs to be submitted through the PMS to
the Bank, the PMS will: i) submit brief but substantive quarterly reports
on project implementation; ii) prepare an annual report summarizing
progress in all key project areas of activity and defining a work program
with monitorable outputs for the following year; and iii) submit a Project
Completion Report to the Bank no later than six months after the closing
date of the loan.



32                       SCHEDULE 1
Page 1 of 2
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TRAINING
1.   Cameroon's trained manpower base is strong by regional standards.
However, effective management of the nation's economy is hampered by the
existence of many different management systems and procedures, poor
coordination between Government agencies and a weak statistical base.
2.   The training to be financed under the project is therefore designed
to assist with the transition to new operational systems and procedures to
be introduced as part of the Government's structural adjustment program.
Project training is not intended to substitute for a lack of local
expertise but to strengthen it and familiarize Cameroonian officials with
the tools, procedures and management systems which are needed to achieve a
common agenda. Some expatriate technical assistance will be necessary for
this but it is expected that a significant amount of project training will
be implemented by Cameroonian nationals engaged as consultants.
3.   Training activities, including those to be carried out by
consultants, account for about 11 percent of total project costs
(US$ 1.6 million equivalent). In addition, it is likely that further
training needs will be identified during project implementation and these
could be financed from presently unallocated funds.
4. Under Support to the Public Investment Program, the services of two
technical experts will be necessary to train Cameroonian staff in the
establishment and implementation of a multiyear rolling investment program.
Both experts will be recruited for one year and will be expected to train
national counterparts to take over their functions in that time frame.
Short-term local training will be provided for about ten staff and
financing will be made available for five candidates to participate in
overseas seminars and workshops on project evaluation and monitoring.
5.   The Support for National Statistics component calls for physical,
financial and human resources linked to a training program which will be
provided under the project. Expatriate assistants will train local staff
in operational and computerization aspects of the statistics program, in
the adoption of a unified (UDEAC) accounting system to replace the many
different systems presently used in Cameroon and in techniques for
conducting effective surveys and other ways of acquiring reliable
information on the nation's economy, including the informal sector. Heavy
emphasis will be put on-the-job training, on local seminars -- ten are
planned -- and on the participation of IFORD and ISSEA, international
Statistics and Planning institutes located in Cameroon. Given the
relatively high level of professional competence already existing in
Cameroon, the training program should not need to last more than two years,
provided that the problem of staff turnover is resolved.



33                       SCHEDULE 1
Page 2 of 2
6. Support for Debt Management will include a six-month mission by a
knowledgeable systems analyst to: (i) update the system user's guide;
(ii) set up appropriate procedures to check data quality; and (iii) prepare
and implement training programs for Cameroonian counterparts and users of
the system. In addition to support for immediate improvements in the
existing computerized debt system, the project would help the CAA determine
needs in the areas of new computer hardware arnd software and in financing
these needs. It would also provide financing for the set up of new
procedures and for training. A study (sch6ma directeur) on debt office
procedures and data processing requirements will include an analysis of the
CAA's training needs to ensure the smooth integration of new procedures
into the daily operation of the CAM. The new CAA systems will be
implemented in phases so that staff can become familiar with them over
time. In this way, errors or omissions in planning or training can be
identified and corrected before the entire system is fully implemented.
The project will include training activities for CAA computer operators and
users. Activities will include training in methodology, hardware, computer
applications and programming languages. For counterparts of the computer
specialists, training will cover areas such as debt management and computer
applications. An additional staff member will be added to the computer
systems unit. He will receive overseas training for one year and be
expected to serve as a backup system manager when the Cameroonian expert
presently in charge of it is absent. To satisfy the long-term needs of the
CAA, three Cameroonians will receive appropriate computer
analysis/programming training abroad. Other high-level staff will receive
training in using the computerized debt system. Finally, in parallel to
assisting the CAM in acquiring new office equipment to improve overall
administrative efficiency, the project will provide training to upgrade the
skills of support staff as needed.
7. Under Suprort to Reform of the Civil Service, the project will
finance local training for operators and users of the new computerized
management system to be provided for personnel and payroll management. Ten
local seminars will be organized for discussion of the recommendations for
reform of the civil service and the terms of reference of expatriate
assistants will give high priority to the training of counterpart staff.
In-service training will also be provided as part of the implementation of
new staffing plans of designated ministries. The Institut Superieur de
Management Public (ISMP), a local higher-education institution for civil
servants, is expected to play a major role in providing such training.
ISMP also qualifies as a local consultant able to carry out some of the
studies envisaged in this or other project components. Finally, training
seminars for Cameroonian consultants will be organized with the assistance
of the Federation of African Consultants, an Abidjan-based panafrican
organization.
8.   The staff of the PMS will be invited to Washington where a seminar in
relevant Bank procedures and practices, financed from the proceeds of the
loan, will be organized as part of project start-up. The seminar will
focus, among other things, on agreed methods for recruitment and periodic
evaluation of locally and internationally recruited technical assistance.



34
SCHEDULE 2
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Implementation Calendar
Maior Activities                               Timetable
1. Proiect Management
(a) create and set up a
Project Management Secretariat (PMS)           Effectiveness
(b) appoint the Project Coordinator,
Administrator and Accountant                   Effectiveness
*c)  adopt six-monthly work programs                Dec. and June
and send six-monthly progress reports               1989-1993
to the Bank 1/
2. Support to PIP
(a)  recruit PIP adviser                            September 1989
(b)  recruit procurement adviser                    September 1989
'c)  select counterpart staff for (a) and (b)       September 1989
'd)  recruit software adviser                       November  1989
'e)  install computers in MINPAT                    December  1989
Sf)  prepare training programs for PIP              Dec. and June
and procurement                                   1989 - 1993
3. Support to National Statistics
(a) recruit statistics system
management specialist                          September 1989
(b)  recruit Natnl. Accounts specialist/trainer   September 1989
(c)  recruit data base specialist                   October 1989
(d)  recruit second data base specialist            September 1990
(e)  prepare training programs under (a) and (b)  Dec. and June
1989 - 1993
(f)  prepare training programs under (d)            Dec. and June
1990-1993
(g) begin installment of equipment in               January 1990
regional offices
(h)  specialist (a) evaluates equipment             January 1991
needs for central office
(i)  carry out seminars for business managers       1990 - 1993
1/ Work programs and reports to include resident advisers' and
counterparts' six-monthly work programs and reports.



35
SCHEDULE 2
Page 2 of 2
4. SuPROrt to Debt Management
(a)  recruit consultant for Master Plan study      May 1989 (PPP)
(b)  recruit consultant for software clean-up      May 1989 (PPP)
(c)  recruit consultant for study on               June 1990
guaranteed debt management and monitoring
(d)  recruit consultant for study on               January 1990
long-term equipment needs
(e)  select counterparts under (a) and (b)         May 1989
(f)  prepare training program under (a) and (b)   September 1989
(g)  carry out seminars for PE managers            1989 - 1993
5. SuiRort to Civil Service Reform
Payroll Management System (PMS)
(a)  recruit public management experts             September 1989
(b)  recruit computer experts                      May 1990
*c)  recruit software experts                      September 1990
sd)  recruit MIS expert                            September 1991
se)  carry out training programs                   1990 - 1992
(f)  order new computer equipment                  April 1990
Review of Key Ministries
(g)  recruit experts for strategy                  Sept.1989-Dec.1989
and reviews
Reform of Reaulatory Framework
(h) recruit institutional expert for revision
and harmonization of regulatory
framework                                     October 1989
Ci)  carry out seminars on finalization of         Jan.1990-Dec.1990
new regulatory framework
Human Resources Mobilization
(j)  recruit expert for completion of              September 1989
national consultants roster
(k)  install computer                              September 1989
(1)  carry out seminars for national consultants  1990 - 1992
6. SuoDort to the PE Sector Reform
(a)  recruit MIS expert                            September 1989
(b)  carry out diagnostic studies and              May 1989-June 1991
prepare action plans
(c)  carry out other studies                       May 1989-June 1991
(d)  carry out seminars for PE managers            Sept.1989-June 1991
(e)  carry out seminars for                        Sept.1989-June 1991
Technical Commission members
(f)  recruit legal experts                         May 1989-June 1991



ATTACHMENT I
- 36 -
CAMEROON
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED FACD I  PLAN (IN U  THOSAND)
TOTAL
Component          COST    Govrnment    weRD   OTHER
I.  PP SUPPORT                Goo            es      644      8
II. NATIONAL STATISTICS     2,080           169   1,828      662
Ii. DEBT MNAOEMENT            722            10      282     429
IV. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM    8,947           286   1,701   2,009
V.  PE REFORM               4,489           468   8,980        0
VI. OTHER ACTIVITIES         1,906            0   1,209      697
Vfl. PBS                      748           520      (0)     214
TOTAL COSTS            14,491         1,452   9,060   8,989
Percent of Total Flnanelng   100.05       10.0   62.43   27.5X



- 37 _                                   ATTACHHENT II
Cm _  . - STMIC   MWAT  gff     O.J
SIY  eP PROF   iTV COSTS rV CWUNlET AM DV TM OF EXP       U
(WI .00)
Short       Ea$igsmt    Ifteraetatl-                                                    V
R.idat        l'ro        Fourniteuro    ta tper-                              Con4in-   Totl   Total
coovan"t          Exprto      Consultant*s   Vahtcla.  *ting Costs    Training    Bass Coost                Cost    Cost
1.  PP SUPPORT                      Vs            SN              16            at                       654       42      696    4.61
I1. NATIONAL STATWSTICS             94            285            361           149         141         1.900      16   2,036   14.1*
III. Oam  MANAG8T                     0           26S             72            10         320           7n        46      72     5.
Iv. ciit. sutvce aOW                  0          1.601         1.62            2W2         ISO         3.632      315   5.947   27.-2
V.  PE ROFOSO                         0          3.30            144           426          69         4.169      269   4.43,   S0.M
VI. amHaR ACTIVITIES                  0          1.tS            62l8            0           0          1.763     144   1.906    S.2S
V-l. he                               0             0            in            49           344          6t         52     743    5.1
O          0             0              0             0           0             0        0        0      Os
0          0              0             0             0           0             0        0        0      Os
aSm COSTS                    1.239          7.05S         3.006          1,316'       al          13.46S
P*.Sic#i Cnntinaoeias            0              0           UO              0           0            130
Price Conting.acia              78            443           1"             66          Si           856
TOTAL PROJET COSTS           1,317          7.4911        S,S5S          1.452        a6          14,491   1.006  14.491    1001



