Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3110 CM
(Economic Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 17, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3110 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1989, between the REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to seek further external financing in an  
approximate amount equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000) to assist in 
financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MINPAT" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for planning and 
territorial development;
(b)
"MINFI" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for finance;
 
(c)
"CAA" means the Borrower's Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement under the 
supervision of MINFI;
(d)
"Technical Committee" means the Comite Technique de Preparation  et de 
Suivi du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel created by the Borrower's Decree No. 
88/1861 of December 27, 1988;
(e)
"PMS" means the Project Management Secretariat within the Technical 
Committee;
(f)
"Special Account" mean the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated January 
24, 1989 and February 8, 1989 between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(h)
"CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the Franc de la Communaute Financiere 
Africaine, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of  nine million dollars 
($9,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the  Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special account in a commercial bank on terms and  conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges  thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
Page  3
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings  determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at 
the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
 
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank shall notify 
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
 
"(c)
(iii)  'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 
1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar 
year."
(e)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the first Semester  of 1989 shall 
be seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).
Page  4
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the  
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency  and in conformity with appropriate 
planning, training, administrative and  financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of the coordination of all Project activities, the 
Borrower shall establish and maintain within the Technical Committee a  Project 
Management Secretariat (the PMS), headed by the Technical Committee  coordinator, 
including an administrative officer and an accountant, and assisted by support staff 
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Before undertaking any activity under Parts B (b), C (d)  and F of 
the Project, the Borrower shall, through the PMS, prepare and  furnish to the Bank, 
for its approval, a detailed proposal for each such activity, including a reasoned 
justification, a plan of execution, if required, and a list of supporting services to 
be provided therefor.
Section 3.04. (a) Beginning December 31, 1989 and thereafter at six months' 
intervals: (i) the Borrower shall, through the PMS, prepare and  furnish to the Bank 
for its review and approval proposed work plans for the  execution of the Project 
during the following six months; and (ii) the  Borrower and the Bank shall exchange 
views on the status of the Project  activities, the results and recommendations 
originating therefrom, and further action to be taken for carrying out the Project and 
accomplishing
the purposes of the Loan. Furthermore, not later than June 30, 1990, the  Borrower and 
the Bank shall exchange views on the Project funding requirements and the proposed 
ways and means to fulfill them.
(b)
Prior to such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a 
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project, in such  detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect  of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
Page  5
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or 
loan made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor, or
 
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(b)
paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the PMS has been  established within the Technical 
Committee with the coordinator of the   Technical Committee appointed as its head, and 
the administrator and the  accountant referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement have assumed their functions.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this  Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for planning and regional 
development is designated as representative of the Borrower for the  purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and
   Regional Development
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPAT
8203 KN
Yaounde
With copy to:
Ministry of Finance
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFI
8260 KN
Yaounde
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Yaounde, Republic of Cameroon, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
Page  7
By /s/ Elisabeth Tankeu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to  each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Long-term             1,100,000           100%
     consultants'
     services
(2)  Short-term            5,300,000           100%
     consultants'
     services
(3)  Consultants'          1,150,000           100%
     services for
     Parts B (b),
     C (d) and F
     of the Project
(4)  Training for            100,000           100%
     Part E of
     the Project
(5)  Equipment for           100,000           85%
     Part E of
     the Project
(6)  Refunding of            350,000           Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
     tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                               Agreement
(7)  Unallocated             900,000
                           _________
          TOTAL            9,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals  shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower, in the context of its 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to  achieve structural adjustment 
of its economy, in: (a) formulating and  implementing reforms; and (b) promoting a 
better policy analysis and management of its economy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Support to the Public Investment Program
 
(a)
Support in the preparation, monitoring and updating of a computerized 
rolling multi-year investment program, including: (i) the establishment of detailed 
procedures for project selection; (ii) the  preparation of a computerized system for 
major projects with  project-by-project files indicating investment expenditures by 
component;  (iii) an analysis of the impact of major projects on the Borrower's 
current budget; (iv) the elaboration of computerized systems; and (v) the preparation 
and carrying out of training programs.
(b)
Support to the Borrower in the procurement area, including: (i) the 
analysis and revision of bidding and procurement procedures to make them  more 
efficient; (ii) the standardization of bidding and procurement documents; and (iii) 
the preparation and carrying out of training programs for technical staff.
Part B:
Support to National Statistics
 
Support to the reform of the national statistics system, including:
(a)
the preparation of a master plan ("schema directeur") to reorganize the 
national statistics system, improvements in organization, data processing and 
collection, and statistical methodology, the definition and setting up of a data bank, 
the carrying out of on-the-job training programs and seminars, and the acquisition of 
computer equipment for the  central office at Yaounde and for five regional offices; 
and
(b)
further activities to be determined and carried out following the 
recommendations of the above-mentioned master plan.
Part C:
Support to Debt Management
 
(a)
Carrying out of studies for defining the structure, organization and 
procedures of the CAA, including: (i) the preparation of a master plan  ("schema 
directeur") and of a staffing plan and a training program to be  carried out in a 
second phase; and (ii) the formulation of procedures for improving the monitoring of 
Government-guaranteed debt.
(b)
Preparation and carrying out of training programs for operators and users 
of CAA existing computer equipment.
(c)
Carrying out of a study on CAA long-term computer equipment needs.
 
(d)
Further activities to be determined and carried out following the 
recommendations of the studies referred to in paragraphs (a) and (c) above.
(e)
Acquisition of computer equipment.
 
Part D:
Support to the Civil Service Reform
 
Support to the civil service reform measures, including: 
(a)
the reorganization plans and the staffing requirements of key ministries;
 
(b)
the revision of the regulatory framework;
 
(c)
payroll management reform;
Page  9
(d)
a more efficient use of the national human resources; and
 
(e)
the acquisition of computer equipment.
 
Part E:
Support to the Public Enterprise Sector Reform
 
Support to the public enterprise sector reform measures, including:
(a)
the carrying out of diagnostic studies and, when appropriate, the 
preparation of rehabilitation plans for public and parapublic sector enterprises;
(b)
the design of a management information system;
 
(c)
the carrying out of studies, in particular, on: (i) the identification of 
ways and means to mitigate the potentially negative social  impact of employment 
curtailment by public enterprises; (ii) the detailed  review of relationships between 
the Government and selected public enterprises, together with recommendations to 
clarify said relationships on a case-by-case basis; and (iii) methods to improve the 
productivity of cash crops (cotton, coffee and cocoa);
(d)
the supervision of public enterprises under restructuration and the 
provision of legal, auditing, privatization experts' or liquidators' services for 
public enterprises to be privatized or liquidated;
(e)
the carrying out of seminars to explain the measures taken in the context 
of the public enterprise sector reform; and
(f)
the strengthening of the operations of the Technical Commission in charge 
of the public enterprise reform through the acquisition of equipment and the 
attendance to seminars related to public enterprise sector reform.
Part F:
Other Activities
 
Other activities consisting of technical assistance, training, studies and 
acquisition of equipment to be determined during Project implementation.
Part G:
PMS Operations
 
Strengthening of the operations of the PMS through the acquisition of equipment.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1994
through April 1, 2006
375,000
 
