Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7658 -ID 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Public Expenditure Support Facility Development Policy Loan  
with Deferred Drawdown Option) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 4, 2009 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 4, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
INDONESIA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two billion United States Dollars 
($2,000,000,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Page  3
2
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request 
repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity 
of such Withdrawal does not exceed eighteen (18) years from the 
Withdrawal Date and the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not 
exceed thirty (30) years from the Withdrawal Date (or such other average 
maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable to loans 
made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement) and  
(ii) such repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower 
and the Bank prior to the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: A situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
Page  5
4
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
FINMINISTRY  
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
 
Jakarta 
  44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
 
6.03. The 
Ban
k’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: Chris Hoban 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken under the
Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
Policy Area:  Reassuring Financial Markets and Maintaining Financial System Stability 
 
1. 
The Borrower has issued a financial safety net government regulation in lieu of 
law (Perpu No. 4/2008) that establishes the roles, responsibilities and procedures 
that will govern the actions and responsibility of Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of 
Finance, and the Deposit Insurance Corporation in the event of the failure of a 
financial institution. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has taken steps to maintain the stability of its banking system by:  
(a) issuing a government regulation in lieu of law (Perpu No. 3/2008)  increasing 
the ceiling on deposit insurance from 100 million to 2 billion Rupiah and 
allowing the Borrower to provide a blanket guarantee of all bank deposits if 
necessary; and (b) issuing a government regulation in lieu of law (Perpu No. 
2/2008) that amends the Bank Indonesia Law clarifying the types of assets that 
banks can use as collateral for borrowing from the central bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through a letter of the Minister of Finance and the Governor of 
Bank Indonesia, has initiated a financial sector assessment program (Letter dated 
December 24, 2008). 
 
4. 
The Borrower has issued and committed to implementation of the Financing Plan 
for Fiscal Year 2009 that specifies the terms and circumstances under which the 
Borrower would draw on financing support that is available from the Public 
Expenditure Support Facility and from Indonesia
’s development partners 
providing related support (Director General of Debt Management Decree No. 
KEP04/PU/2009, dated January 27, 2009). 
 
Policy Area:  Sustaining Critical Public Expenditures while Maintaining Budget 
Discipline 
 
5. 
The Borrower has established a crisis monitoring and response system in 
anticipation of a possible growth slowdown or crisis (BAPPENAS Ministerial 
Directive (Surat Penugasan) 0014/M.PPN/01/2009 dated January 27, 2009). 
 
6. 
The Borrower has submitted a Presidential Decree on Coordination of National 
Poverty Reduction efforts to the President for signature.
 
Page  8
7
7. 
The Borrower has included specific provisions in the 2009 budget law (Law No. 
41/2008) to sustain, and if necessary, increase critical public expenditures in the 
event of a pronounced growth slowdown.
 
8. 
The Borrower has implemented specific regulatory measures (Regulation Nos. 
240/PMK.05/2008; 06/PMK.02/2009; and 15/KMK.05/2009) and socialization 
efforts to expedite budget disbursements and enhance the ability of the Borrower 
to rapidly direct public expenditures to preempt, as well as mitigate, any adverse 
impacts of a growth slowdown. 
 
Crowding in Private Investment and Supporting Exports 
 
9. 
The Borrower has prepared and has undertaken inter-ministerial review of a draft 
of a Presidential Regulation on the implementation of the 2007 Investment Law 
and Investment Negative List (DNI) that
 accommodates Indonesia’s international 
commitments on sectoral restrictions and clarifies the status of publicly listed 
companies, foreign equity limits for direct investment, grandfathering and the 
creation of investment restrictions beyond those stipulated in the Investment 
Negative List.   
 
10. 
The Borrower has taken steps to increase transparency regarding revenues from 
extractive industries by: (a) issuing a memorandum of understanding among the 
Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister of Finance and the 
Minister for Energy and Mineral Resources (MOU-01/M.EKON/01/2009; MOU-
54/MK/2009; 0274/05/MEM/2009) on 
Transparansi Pendapatan Negara Yang 
Diperoleh dari Industri Ekstraktif
;
and (b) issuing a letter from the Coordinating 
Minister for Economic Affairs to the Secretariat of the EITI initiating the process 
of application to the EITI (Letter No. S-125/M.EKON/12/2008). 
 
11. 
The Borrower has: (a) opened a re-discount window for trade finance through 
Bank Indonesia (Regulation No. 10/34/PBI/2008); and (b) created an export 
financing agency (Law No. 2/2009). 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche in one or more 
installments.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in 
the table below: 
 
Page  9
8
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in US Dollars) 
 
Single Tranche 
1,995,000,000 
Front-end Fee 
      5,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
2,000,000,000 
C. Withdrawal 
of 
Loan 
Proceeds
.
If, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank 
of a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a 
review of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework or of its progress in 
carrying out the Program, including the Financing Plan, is warranted, the Bank 
shall give notice to the Borrower to that effect.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
no withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until 
the Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views 
as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with (1) the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program, including the Financing 
Plan and (2) the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, the first installment to be payable on the 21st Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and 
the last installment to be payable on the 49th
 
Interest Payment Date following the 
Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount.  The following table sets forth 
the percentage of Disbursed Amount payable on each Principal Payment Date. 
 
Installment Installment 
Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
First through and including 28
th 
3.45% 
29th 3.40% 
2. 
The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed 
Amount. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the 
event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to 
an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that 
is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
4. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency. 
 
Page  11
10 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Bank Indonesia” means the central bank of the Borrower, and any successor 
thereto. 
 
2. “BAPPENAS” 
means 
Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional
,
the 
Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Deposit Insurance Corporation” means 
Lembaga Penjamin Simpanan,
 the 
Deposit Insurance Corporation of the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
Page  12
11 
 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
5. 
“EITI” means the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, a coalition of 
governments, companies, civil society groups, investors and international 
organizations which supports improved governance in resource-rich countries 
through the verification and full publication of company payments and 
government revenues from oil, gas and mining (www.eitransparency.org
). 
 
6. 
“Financing Plan” means the Borrower’s financing plan for public expenditure 
support for Fiscal Year 2009, issued by Director General of Debt Management 
Decree No. KEP04/PU/2009, dated January 27, 2009, that specifies: (a) the 
Borrower’s financing targets for Fiscal Year 2009; (b) the terms and 
circumstances under which the Borrower would draw on financing support that is 
available from the Public Expenditure Support Facility and from Indonesia’s 
Page  13
12 
 
development partners providing related support; and (c) the terms under which 
such Financing Plan may be rolled over and re-issued for Fiscal Year 2010. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“Investment Negative List” means the  
Daftar Negatif Investasi
 (DNI), the 
Borrower’s Investment Negative List establishing those sectors closed, or 
partially closed, to private foreign and/or domestic investment (Perpres No. 
111/2007). 
 
10. 
“Keppres” means a 
Keputusan Presiden
,
a
decree issued by the President of the 
Borrower. 
 
11. 
“Minister of Finance” means the person holding the position of Minister in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower. 
 
12. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“Perpres” and “Presidential Regulation” means a 
Peraturan Presiden
,
a
regulation of the President of the Borrower. 
 
14. 
“Perpu” means a 
Peraturan Pemerintah Pengganti Undang-undang
,
a
government regulation in lieu of law of the Borrower. 
 
15. 
“Presidential Decree” means a 
Peraturan Presiden (Perpres)
,
a
decree issued by 
the President of the Borrower 
 
16. 
 “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies, including the 
Financing Plan, designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions 
in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter dated January 28, 2009, from 
the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during its execution.  
 
17. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, which may be withdrawn in one or more installments. 
Page  14
13 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
Page  15
14 
 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:
 
(a) The 
de
finition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows:
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(d)
 
The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows:
 
“‘Fixed Spread’ means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for 
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; provided, that: (a) for purposes of 
determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02(d), that is 
applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which 
interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s 
fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of 
denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes of fixing the Variable 
Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed 
spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. 
time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all 
or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance pursuant to Section 
4.04(a), the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the 
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(e) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
Page  16
15 
 
(f) 
The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Variable Spread’ means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: 
(1) the Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) 
LIBOR, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund 
loans that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.  In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, 
“Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.”  
 
(g) 
A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 
 
“‘Withdrawal’ means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.” 
 
(h) 
A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 
 
“‘Withdrawal Date’ means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the 
Bank pays the Withdrawal.” 
 
