Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4416  
Operation Name 
Public Expenditure Support Facility (DPL-DDO) 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);Banking (25%);General 
industry and trade sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P115199 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
December 16, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 16, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 19, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The proposed Indonesia Public Expenditure Support Facility (PESF), in the form of a USD 2 
billion single tranche contingent DPL with a Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO), comes at a 
critical and trying time for Indonesia, and is designed to support Indonesia at this time of need. 
Like many other developing economies, Indonesia has had to cope with the immediate ripple 
effects of the turmoil and crisis of confidence that has disrupted the global financial system in the 
last two and a half months, while at the same time preparing for an anticipated growth slowdown 
and continued tight liquidity in the coming quarters. The government has responded proactively 
to the rapidly evolving situation and the World Bank and other partners have assisted in and 
continue to support these efforts.
 
Indonesia came into the growing crisis (in the final quarter of 2008) in a strong position. Real 
GDP growth had accelerated to a ten-year high of 6.3 percent in 2007 and Indonesia was the only 
major economy in East Asia that did not experience a growth slowdown in the first half of 2008, 
despite unstable global financial markets and a slowing world economy. Though year-on-year 
GDP growth did slow in the third quarter to 6.1 percent, the slowdown was much milder than 
expected. Indonesia has had a primary budget surplus (excluding interest payments) in each of 
the last three years and has maintained its overall budget deficit at levels that are low by 
international standards
—1.3 percent of GDP in 2007, and according to the latest projections, 1.0 
percent in 2008. Inflation, the main concern of economic policymakers around mid-year, appears 
to have peaked in the third quarter of 2008, following the shift of monetary policy to a more 
contractionary footing and waning upstream price pressures. Indonesia’s debt-to-GDP ratio has 
also declined significantly from 55 per cent in 2004 to 34.9 percent in 2007 and is estimated to 
decline to 30 percent by end of 2008. Indonesia has achieved the most dramatic decline in debt-
to-GDP ratio of any major economy in the region. 
The ripple effects of the global turmoil since mid-September, did however, adversely and 
significantly affect Indonesia’s financial markets, especially in the two months till mid-
November. Because of its relatively open capital account, the significant foreign presence in its 
stock and bond markets, and the legacy of the 1998 crisis (which left Indonesian investors 
sensitive to exchange rate movements and prone to capital flight) Indonesia is more exposed to 
“externally mobile capital” than other countries in East Asia. This manifested itself during the 
month of October in a 32 percent decline in the stock market, a nearly 450 basis points increase 
Page  2
in yields on medium-term domestic b
onds, a 700 basis points increase in Indonesia’s 
international bond spreads and a 17 percent depreciation of the Indonesian rupiah against the US 
dollar. Indonesia’s international reserves, which had reached a high of USD 60 billion, fell by 
nearly USD 10 billion to USD 50 billion in the month and a half to the end of October. 
Developments in the last few weeks provide some indications that Indonesia’s financial markets 
may be bottoming out, though it is still too early to be certain and the risk of further disruption 
remains, while the adverse impacts of a likely growth slowdown are only beginning to be felt. 
The Indonesian rupiah did fall by another 10 percent against the US dollar during the month of 
November, but Indonesia’s international reserves remained stable at around USD 50 billion, as 
did the stock market, which fell by less than 1 percent. With the rupiah appearing to stabilize and 
the external growth environment rapidly weakening, Bank Indonesia lowered its policy rate by 
25 bps to 9.25 percent in its December meeting. Needless to say, significant challenges still 
remain on both the domestic and external fronts. Indonesian corporations are believed to have 
reasonably well diversified finance and not be significantly leveraged, but, further depreciation 
and demand destruction in the event of a pronounced slowdown will affect corporations and 
result in rising NPLs and erosion of bank capital. And given Indonesia’s exposure to externally 
mobile capital, continued volatility in financial markets and spikes in global risk aversion could 
cause further disruptive capital outflows. 
The government is well-aware of the challenges that lie ahead and has taken a number of 
precautionary and proactive measures in response. To reduce the likelihood of further disruption 
and maintain the stability of the financial system, the President has signed a number of 
regulations in lieu of law, most notably a financial safety net regulation that clearly establishes 
the roles, responsibilities and procedures that govern the actions and responses of Bank 
Indonesia, the Minister of Finance, and the Deposit Insurance Corporation in the event of the 
failure of a financial institution, and a regulation that increases the ceiling on deposit insurance 
from 100 million to 2 billion rupiah, while giving the government the authority to further raise 
the deposit insurance ceiling or issue a blanket universal guarantee quickly if circumstances 
demand. These measures have, up till now, helped to maintain the stability of the Indonesian 
banking system. In the single instance where a small non-systemic bank did fail, the measures 
empowered the regulatory authorities to quickly take control of the situation. 
The 2009 budget law passed in November details a number of steps that the government plans to 
sustain critical public expenditures, and if necessary, provide a fiscal stimulus while maintaining 
budget discipline, in the face of a likely growth slowdown. The government and the Parliament 
agreed to revise the 2009 budget to target a deficit of 1% of GDP in 2009 by reducing routine 
line ministry spending by 5% to 15%. At the same time, because the volatility and tighter 
liquidity conditions in global financial markets are likely to lower private investment in 
infrastructure, the budget contains provisions to ensure that priority publicly-funded 
infrastructure projects are financed even if market conditions are unfavorable. In so doing 
Indonesia hopes to avoid repeating the experience of the 1998 Asian crisis, when infrastructure 
spending fell drastically. The budget also protects social sector spending, in particular, funding 
for the flagship community-based poverty alleviation program, so as to provide a cushion for 
households who are adversely affected by any growth slowdown. The budget law provides the 
government with the flexibility to engage, if necessary, in fiscal stimulus programs, and 
introduces measures to speed up budget execution, a prerequisite for enhancing the impact and 
timeliness of any fiscal stimulus package.  And while much remains to be done to improve 
energy efficiency and competition in local energy markets the government has announced that it 
plans to take advantage of lower global oil prices and begin adjusting administered fuel prices in 
line with movements in market prices up to a pre-specified ceiling. 
Page  3
To alleviate financing constraints if global liquidity conditions do not ease, and as an important 
element of its precautionary stance looking forward, the government has requested contingent 
budget support from the World Bank in the form of a USD 2 billion contingent DPL with 
DDO
—the PESF described in this program document. The government has also requested the 
World Bank’s assistance in facilitating additional contingent financing of around USD 3-4 
billion from other development partners. The request for contingent financing stems from 
concerns about Indonesia’s ability to meet its gross financing needs—which are high in the next 
few years because of the maturity structure and servicing costs of its existing debt—if the current 
global liquidity crisis does not ease over the next six to twelve months. The government and the 
Parliament believe that the announcement of a contingent support package, backed up by a 
program of confidence-boosting policy measures, would send a strong positive signal to the 
markets, making it more likely that Indonesia would meet its financing needs for CY2009 from 
market sources.  A contingent support package would naturally also offer a fall-back option in 
the event that market conditions continue to be unfavorable or even deteriorate.  
 
Indonesia’s request to lead this support effort was directed at the World Bank since the need is 
for fiscal resources rather than Central Bank reserves. Indonesia at this time does not seek or 
require support for macroeconomic adjustment.  This support package is clearly preventive in 
nature.   
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed PESF for the amount of US$[2] billion is a contingent DPL. The main objective of 
the proposed loan is to assist the Government in addressing the potential adverse impacts of the 
ongoing global financial crisis on public expenditures during 2009/10. Similar to many other 
countries, Indonesia has been hit by the ongoing turmoil and faces considerable macroeconomic 
uncertainty.  Learning the lessons from the crisis of 1997/98, the Government would like to 
ensure that essential public expenditures are maintained even during this period of stress. 
Therefore, as part of its proactive response to the current global situation, the Government would 
like to put in place arrangements that would give international and domestic markets confidence 
to enable it to raise necessary resources from them. These arrangements include a set of 
confidence-boosting policy measures as well as back-up financing arrangements – a part of 
which is the proposed loan – that would be available, in the event that the current stress in the 
market continues, to reduce the possibility of a financing crisis. 
The Government’s overall program covers three broad areas: (a) reassuring financial markets and 
maintaining financial system stability (b) sustaining critical public expenditures while 
maintaining budget discipline and (c) crowding in private investment and supporting exports. 
The policy package being supported by the proposed PESF covers actions that have already been 
taken since the beginning of the global crisis – mainly in area (a) above with actions under 
implementation in all three areas.  
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The GoI has requested contingent financing from the World Bank in the form of a US$ 2 billion 
contingent DPL with a DDO. GoI has also requested the Bank’s assistance in facilitating 
additional financing from bilateral, multilateral and other sources in the range of US$ 3.5 billion. 
The amount of contingent support requested—US$ 5.5 billion from all sources—is based on 
GoI’s estimate of financing gaps in the event that global liquidity conditions remain tight.  
 
Page  4
The request is for contingent budget support to help Indonesia meet its gross financing needs. 
The request is not for balance of payments support but is intended to support planned public 
expenditures during this period of global crisis. Due to the maturity structure and servicing costs 
of its existing debt, Indonesia’s gross financing needs are high despite the fact that Indonesia has 
successfully maintained its budget deficit at levels that are low by international standards—1.3% 
of GDP in 2007, a projected 1% of GDP in 2008, and a planned 1.0% of GDP in 2009. 
 
The USD2 billion PESF is intended to complement the regular DPL and IDPL program, the 
latest installments of which, DPL-5 for USD750 million and IDPL-2 for USD200 million, were 
approved by the Board on December 9, 2008. The PESF focuses on a subset of the policy areas 
covered under the regular DPL program, areas in which further public action is particularly 
important as part of a preemptive and proactive response to the adverse current situation and 
likely future stresses.   
While the regular DPL series aims to advance Indonesia's longer-term institutional reform 
agenda and focuses on the many important but often incremental steps that need to be taken to 
realize this agenda, the contingent DPL being discussed would support critical stroke-of-the-pen 
measures that are needed to deal with the current situation, but also, where relevant, help 
accelerate and intensify the process that is already being supported by the regular DPL series. In 
particular, some of the policy actions that are being discussed under the contingent DPL advance 
or expedite policy actions that were envisioned as part of the regular DPL series. The need to 
take proactive steps to maintain critical public expenditures and reassure investors given the 
current situation and the potential severity of any growth slowdown in 2009 has lent an urgency 
to the government’s actions, and has helped bring about a certain degree of consensus amongst 
the various constituencies inside and outside of government, a consensus that under normal 
circumstances would have taken longer to build.  
The proposed PESF represents an opportunity to provide enhanced support to an important 
economy with a strong record of prudent macroeconomic management and fiscal discipline at a 
time of increased stresses in global financial markets. The government has clearly indicated that 
it feels that the Bank’s engagement on the policy dialogue is critical, both in terms of the 
substantive support provided as well as in terms of the signal it sends to the market and to 
Indonesia’s bilateral and multilateral partners. At the same time, by helping Indonesia to meet its 
gross financing needs in the event that liquidity conditions do not ease, the PESF would ensure 
that Indonesia is able to maintain and even scale up public spending on critical infrastructure and 
human capital investments and social protection at a time when they are most likely to be 
needed. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The PESF supports key areas of the Government’s crisis-response agenda, including financial 
sector reforms, investment climate, poverty reduction, public financial management and public 
service delivery.  Overall, as the primary goals of the triggers are to improve the functioning of 
the government and public institutions especially in dealing with the impact of the ongoing 
global financial crisis, the PESF is expected to have a positive impact on poverty reduction and a 
negligible impact on the environment.  A review of the proposed policy triggers for PESF on 
environmental, poverty, and social aspects is on-going with a view to include a full assessment in 
the program document at the appraisal stage. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Page  5
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
2,000 
 Total 
2,000 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: P. S. Srinivas 
Title: Lead Financial Economist 
Tel: 5781+3082 / 62-21-5299-3082 
Fax: 62-21-5299-3000 
Email: Psrinivas@worldbank.org 
Location: Jakarta, Indonesia (IBRD)
 
