Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4473 
Operation Name 
Public Expenditure Support Facility (DPL-DDO) 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%);Banking (25%);General 
industry and trade sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P115199 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
January 14, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 15, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
March 3, 2009 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The proposed Indonesia Public Expenditure Support Facility (PESF), in the form of a USD 
2
billion single tranche contingent DPL with a Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO), comes at a 
critical time for Indonesia, and is designed to support Indonesia
’s key development efforts at this 
time of need. Like many other developing economies, Indonesia has had to cope with the 
immediate ripple effects of the turmoil and crisis of confidence that has disrupted the global 
financial system in the last few months, while at the same time preparing for an anticipated 
growth slowdown and continued tight liquidity in 2009. The government has responded 
proactively to the rapidly evolving situation and the Bank and other partners have assisted in and 
continue to support these efforts. 
Indonesia came into the growing crisis (in the final quarter of 2008) in a strong position. Real 
GDP growth had accelerated to a ten-year high of 6.3 percent in 2007 and Indonesia was one of 
few major economies in East Asia that did not experience a growth slowdown in the first half of 
2008, despite unstable global financial markets and a slowing world economy. Though year-on-
year GDP growth did slow in the third quarter to 6.1 percent, the slowdown was much milder 
than expected. Indonesia has had a primary budget surplus (excluding interest payments) in each 
of the last three years and has maintained its overall budget deficit at levels that are low by 
international standards—1.3 percent of GDP in 2007, and according to preliminary realization 
data, 0.1 percent in 2008. Inflation, the main concern of economic policymakers around mid-
year, appears to have peaked in the third quarter of 2008, following the shift of monetary policy 
to a more contractionary footing and waning upstream price pressures. Indonesia’s debt-to-GDP 
ratio has also declined significantly from 55 per cent in 2004 to 34.9 percent in 2007 and is 
estimated to have declined to 30 percent by end of 2008. Indonesia has achieved the most 
dramatic decline in debt-to-GDP ratio of any major economy in the region. 
The ripple effects of the global turmoil since mid-September, did however, adversely and 
significantly affect Indonesia’s financial markets, especially in the two months till mid-
November. Because of its relatively open capital account, the significant foreign presence in its 
stock and bond markets, and the legacy of the 1998 crisis (which left Indonesian investors 
sensitive to exchange rate movements and prone to capital flight) Indonesia is more exposed to 
Page  2
“externally mobile capital” than other countries in East Asia. This manifested itself during the 
month of October in a 32 percent decline in the stock market, a nearly 450 basis points increase 
in yields on medium-term domestic bonds, a 700 basis points increase in Indonesia’s 
international bond spreads and a 17 percent depreciation of the Indonesian rupiah against the US 
dollar. Indonesia’s international reserves, which had reached a high of USD 60 billion, fell by 
nearly USD 10 billion to USD 50 billion in the month and a half to the end of October. 
Developments in the last few weeks provide some indications that Indonesia’s financial markets 
may be stabilizing, though it is still too early to be certain and the risk of further disruption 
remains, while the adverse impacts of a likely growth slowdown are beginning to be felt. The 
Indonesian rupiah did fall by another 10 percent against the US dollar during the month of 
November, but Indonesia’s international reserves remained stable at around USD 50 billion, as 
did the stock market, which fell by less than 1 percent. With the rupiah appearing to stabilize and 
the external growth environment rapidly weakening, Bank Indonesia lowered its policy rate by 
25 bps to 9.25 percent in its December meeting, and by a further 50 bps. to 8.75 percent at its 
January meeting. Needless to say, significant challenges still remain on both the domestic and 
external fronts. Indonesian corporations are believed to have reasonably well diversified 
financing and not to be significantly leveraged, but, further depreciation and demand destruction 
in the event of a pronounced slowdown will affect corporations and result in rising non 
performing loans (NPLs) and erosion of bank capital. And given Indonesia’s exposure to 
externally mobile capital, continued volatility in financial markets and spikes in global risk 
aversion could cause further disruptive capital outflows. 
The government is well-aware of the challenges that lie ahead and has taken a number of 
precautionary and proactive measures in response. To reduce the likelihood of further disruption 
and maintain the stability of the financial system, the President has signed a number of 
regulations, most notably a financial safety net regulation that clarifies the roles, responsibilities 
and procedures that govern the actions and responses of Bank Indonesia, the Minister of Finance, 
and the Deposit Insurance Corporation in the event of the failure of a financial institution, and a 
regulation that increases the ceiling on deposit insurance from 100 million to 2 billion rupiah, 
while giving the government the authority to further raise the deposit insurance ceiling or issue a 
blanket universal guarantee quickly if circumstances demand. These measures have, up till now, 
helped to reinforce the stability of the Indonesian banking system. In the single instance where a 
small non-systemic bank did fail, the measures empowered the regulatory authorities to quickly 
take control of the situation. 
The 2009 budget passed in November provided the government with the flexibility to respond to 
evolving economic conditions and to implement a fiscal stimulus program and to accelerate 
budget execution, a prerequisite for enhancing the impact and timeliness of any fiscal stimulus 
package. Thus the government took to Parliament in the second half of January a revised budget 
that expands the 2009 deficit from a budgeted 1% of GDP to 2.5% of GDP. Spending on 
infrastructure, social protection, including for the flagship community-based poverty alleviation 
program, and education will expand, while revenues are budgeted to fall with cuts in tax rates, 
slower nominal GDP growth and lower global commodity prices. In so doing Indonesia hopes to 
avoid repeating the experience of the 1998 Asian crisis, when infrastructure spending fell 
drastically. And while much remains to be done to improve energy efficiency and competition in 
local energy markets the government has announced that it plans to take advantage of lower 
Page  3
global oil prices and is now adjusting administered fuel prices in line with movements in market 
prices, up to a pre-specified ceiling. From 2009, the central government is also sharing the cost 
of subsidies with sub-national governments. These are critical steps contributing to the longer 
term budget improvement efforts being undertaken by government.  
To alleviate financing constraints if global liquidity conditions do not ease, and as an important 
element of its precautionary stance looking forward, the government has requested budget 
support from the World Bank in the form of a USD 2 billion DPL with DDO which the 
Government has stated it intends to exercise only when certain conditions are met
—the PESF 
described in this program document. The government has also requested the World Bank’s 
assistance in facilitating additional financing of around USD 3-4 billion from other development 
partners, which the government has stated it intends to exercise only under the same conditions 
as those of the PESF. The request for financing stems from concerns about Indonesia’s ability to 
meet its gross financing needs—which are high in the next few years because of the maturity 
structure and servicing costs of its existing debt—if the current global liquidity crisis does not 
ease over the next six to twelve months. 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed PESF for the amount of USD 2 billion is a contingent DPL with DDO. The main 
objective of the proposed loan is to assist the Government in addressing the potential adverse 
impacts of the ongoing global financial crisis on public expenditures during 2009/10. Similar to 
many other countries, Indonesia has been hit by the ongoing turmoil and faces considerable 
macroeconomic uncertainty.  Learning the lessons from the crisis of 1997/98, the Government 
would like to ensure that essential public expenditures are maintained even during this period of 
stress. Therefore, as part of its proactive response to the current global situation, the Government 
would like to put in place arrangements that would give international and domestic markets 
confidence to enable it to raise necessary resources from them. These arrangements include a set 
of confidence-boosting policy measures as well as back-up financing arrangements – a part of 
which is the proposed loan – that would be available, in the event that the current stress in the 
market continues, to reduce the possibility of a financing crisis. 
The Government’s overall program covers three broad policy areas: (1) reassuring financial 
markets and maintaining financial system stability (2) sustaining critical public expenditures 
while maintaining budget discipline and (3) facilitating private investment and supporting 
exports.  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The GoI has requested financing from the World Bank in the form of a US$ 2 billion DPL with a 
DDO, which the GOI has stated it will only exercise when certain conditions described below are 
met. GoI has also requested the Bank’s assistance in facilitating additional financing from 
bilateral, multilateral and other sources in the range of US$ 3-4 billion. The amount of support 
requested—US$ 5-6 billion from all sources—is based on GoI’s estimated potential financing 
gap in the event that global liquidity conditions remain tight. Indonesia’s request to lead this 
support effort was directed at the World Bank since the need is for fiscal resources rather than 
Central Bank reserves. Indonesia at this time does not seek or require support for 
macroeconomic adjustment.  This support package is clearly preventive in nature. 
Page  4
The request for contingent financing stems from concerns a
bout Indonesia’s ability to meet its 
gross financing needs on reasonable terms if the current global liquidity crisis does not ease over 
the next six to twelve months. Due to the maturity structure and servicing costs of its existing 
debt, Indonesia’s gross financing needs are high despite the fact that Indonesia has successfully 
maintained its budget deficit at levels that are low by international standards—1.3% of GDP in 
2007, a preliminary estimate of 0.1% of GDP in 2008, and, currently before Parliament, a revised 
proposed deficit of 2.5% of GDP in 2009, up from an originally budgeted deficit 1.0% of GDP, 
in response to the global downturn. The government and the Parliament believe that the 
announcement of a contingent support package, backed up by a program of confidence-boosting 
policy measures, would send a strong positive signal to the markets, making it more likely that 
Indonesia would meet its financing needs for CY2009 from market sources.  A contingent 
support package would naturally also offer a fall-back option in the event that market conditions 
continue to be unfavorable or even deteriorate.   
 
The US$ 2 billion PESF is intended to complement the regular DPL and IDPL program, the 
latest installments of which, DPL-5 for US$ 750 million and IDPL-2 for US$ 200 million, were 
approved by the Board on December 9, 2008. The PESF focuses on a subset of the policy areas 
covered under the regular DPL program, areas in which further public action is particularly 
important as part of a preemptive and proactive response to the adverse current situation and 
likely future stresses.   
While the regular DPL series aims to advance Indonesia's longer-term institutional reform 
agenda and focuses on the many important but often incremental steps that need to be taken to 
realize this agenda, the PESF being proposed would support critical stroke-of-the-pen measures 
that are needed to deal with the current situation, but also, where relevant, help accelerate and 
intensify the process that is already being supported by the regular DPL series. In particular, 
some of the policy actions that are being discussed under the PESF advance or expedite policy 
actions that were envisioned as part of the regular DPL series. The need to take proactive steps to 
maintain critical public expenditures and reassure investors given the current situation and the 
potential severity of any growth slowdown in 2009 has lent an urgency to the government’s 
actions, and has helped bring about a certain degree of consensus amongst the various 
constituencies inside and outside of government, a consensus that under normal circumstances 
would have taken longer to build. 
The solid policy reform track record of the Government over the past four years is also a sound 
platform for the proposed PESF support. The Government has made substantial progress in 
reforms in the areas being supported by the PESF since it took office in 2004. The DPL series 
has supported the Government of Indonesia’s reform efforts in three core areas of: (i) improving 
the investment climate; (ii) strengthening public financial management and governance; and (iii) 
enhancing poverty alleviation and service delivery efforts.   Specific reforms over the years have 
covered efforts to reduce uncertainty for investors by improving investment regulations, reduce 
the time needed for and cost of importing and exporting, enhance taxpayer services and improve 
the efficiency and equity of the tax administration, reduce the vulnerability of the financial 
system, streamline budget execution and management of budget authority, improve budget and 
cash management within the central government, strengthen monitoring and evaluation of public 
Page  5
expenditures and programs, and enhance the pro-poor impact of public expenditures by 
improving the targeting of such programs.   
In the context of the proposed PESF, the Government is taking additional measures aimed 
specifically at addressing the fallout from the ongoing global crisis. Taken together, the progress 
over the course of this administration as well as current initiatives justify Bank support for the 
PESF.      
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
2,000 
 Total 
2,000 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The request is for contingent budget support to help Indonesia meet its gross financing needs. 
The request is not for balance of payments support but is intended to support planned public 
expenditures during this period of global crisis.  
 
An innovative aspect of the design of the PESF is its contingent nature with respect to the 
Government’s own planned use of the facility. Because GoI wishes to rely first on the market, it 
has prepared a Financing Plan for 2009 and 2010 that specifies the market circumstances under 
which it would draw on any contingent support that is available from Indonesia's development 
partners. The Financing Plan sets out the Government’s decision that it will draw down the PESF 
only when it cannot meet its specified financing target within agreed market access conditions, 
and that it will limit its withdrawals in those scenarios to quarterly phasing. In addition, the 
Financing Plan states that meetings to review the Financing Plan and the country’s 
macroeconomic policy framework will be held with Government, the Bank and other 
development partners on at least a quarterly basis.  .Continuing compliance with the Financing 
Plan is not a formal disbursement condition under PESF; rather it is the Government's plan for 
when and how it will use the PESF funds.  The PESF loan agreement will give effect to the 
Financing Plan through ongoing exercise by the Bank of the standard mechanism for review of 
progress with the program and the macroeconomic policy framework. 
The US$ 2 billion PESF is intended to complement the regular DPL and IDPL program, the 
latest installments of which, DPL-5 for USD750 million and IDPL-2 for USD200 million, were 
approved by the Board on December 9, 2008. 
While the regular DPL series aims to advance Indonesia's longer-term institutional reform 
agenda and focuses on the many important but often incremental steps that need to be taken to 
realize this agenda, the contingent DPL being discussed would support critical stroke-of-the-pen 
measures that are needed to deal with the current situation, but also, where relevant, help 
accelerate and intensify the process that is already being supported by the regular DPL series. In 
particular, some of the policy actions that are being discussed under the contingent DPL advance 
or expedite policy actions that were envisioned as part of the regular DPL series. The need to 
Page  6
take proactive steps to maintain critical public expenditures and reassure investors given the 
current situation and the potential severity of any growth slowdown in 2009 has lent an urgency 
to the government’s actions, and has helped bring about a certain degree of consensus amongst 
the various constituencies inside and outside of government, a consensus that under normal 
circumstances would have taken longer to build.  
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed PESF represents an opportunity to provide enhanced support to an important 
economy with a sustained record of prudent macroeconomic management and fiscal discipline at 
a
time of increased stresses in global financial markets. The government has clearly indicated 
that it feels that the World Bank’s engagement on the policy dialogue is critical, both in terms of 
the substantive support provided as well as in terms of the signal it sends to the market and to 
Indonesia’s bilateral and multilateral partners. At the same time, by helping Indonesia to meet its 
gross financing needs in the event that liquidity conditions do not ease, the PESF would ensure 
that Indonesia is able to maintain and even scale up public spending on critical infrastructure and 
human capital investments and social protection at a time when they are most likely to be 
needed. 
The modal scenario the Bank foresees is one where liquidity conditions ease sufficiently, both 
globally and in Indonesia, such that the signaling effect of the support package is all that is 
needed. If this is the case, the GoI would meet its financing target from market sources and the 
support would remain an unexercised option.
 
A
second scenario is one where market conditions remain tight enough that the draw-down 
trigger is met but there is no outright crisis. Under this scenario the GoI would draw down a 
portion of the loans provided by the World Bank and other potential partners to support critical 
public expenditures. 
 
A
third scenario, and one that constitutes a key risk in this proposed operation, is that of a sudden 
capital outflow crisis. Indonesia’s current account and balance of payments are still in surplus 
(though likely to shrink in the coming quarters). Indonesia had a current account surplus of US$ 
10 billion in 2007 and US$ 900 million in the first half of 2008 (despite the rising costs of oil 
imports). We expect that going forward the current account balance will deteriorate but stay in 
neutral territory. As such, although indicators of Indonesia’s current account and balance of 
payments are still strong, Indonesia is more exposed than other East Asian and Pacific countries 
to “externally mobile capital” because of its relatively open capital account and the degree of 
foreign presence in its stock and government bond markets. The legacy of the 1998 crisis has 
also left Indonesian investors sensitive to exchange rate movements and prone to capital flight.  
The main risk is from large scale capital outflows, both in the form of foreign investors 
liquidating their positions in Indonesian stocks and bonds, and domestic investors fleeing the 
rupiah. Were a sudden capital outflow crisis to occur, the typical disbursement circumstances for 
development policy loan support, in particular the specific requirement for an appropriate overall 
macroeconomic framework, are unlikely to be met. Should the above scenario take place in 
advance of the loan disbursement, the PESF funds would not disburse. However, there also 
remains the risk that such a crisis erupts after disbursements have been effected by development 
partners, with implications for further Bank support. Such a situation would most likely require a 
macroeconomic package with other institutions potentially playing a more prominent role and 
Page  7
any support package would then conceivably become part of such a larger macroeconomic 
package. 
 
The proposed operation is specifically intended to mitigate such a risk by increasing market 
confidence in the strength of the economy. The PESF represents a core set of policies designed 
to reduce these risks, including 
through contributions toward improvements in the government’s 
overall financial position and support for sustaining reform efforts aimed at financial sector 
stability, domestic demand expansion, strengthening of infrastructure and social safety net 
programs and continued improvements to the environment for private investments and exports.  
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The PESF supports key areas of the Government’s crisis-response agenda, including financial 
sector reforms, investment climate improvement, and sustaining public expenditures to address 
the impacts of the crisis.  Since the PESF supports direct actions aimed at sustaining 
expenditures to help in the areas of poverty alleviation and social protection, it is expected to 
have a positive impact on these aspects.  The environmental assessment concludes that there are 
few areas where environmental issues may arise, and several general improvements in 
transparency and regulatory consistency could lead to positive improvements in environmental 
and natural resource management in the longer term.  
 
A. 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
It is expected that this operation will have a large positive impact on poverty reduction.  Policy 
Area 2: Sustaining Critical Public Expenditures While Maintaining Budget Discipline was 
designed specifically to mitigate the effects of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable. In particular, 
actions would involve establishing a poverty monitoring system in anticipation of possible 
growth slowdown or crisis; ensuring that the monitoring information is responded to in a 
concerted and effective manner;  sustaining and if necessary increasing critical public 
expenditures in the areas of poverty reduction, social protection and infrastructure development; 
and expediting public spending in these critical sectors.   
 
The Government's draft blueprint recognizes the need for real-time information as the crisis 
unfolds and the likely heterogeneous effects across the archipelago.  It is expected that data for 
monitoring will be disaggregated by region as well as gender.  Monitoring gender impacts will 
be particularly important with regard to changes in employment status and access to health and 
education services.   The Government's proposed monitoring plan is in fact an action plan to 
conduct poverty and social impact analyses as the crisis rolls out, using both quantitative and 
qualitative techniques including monthly surveys, health and education facility information 
collection, key informant interviews and rapid field appraisals.  
 
B.  
Environmental aspects 
 
Actions under Policy Area 1 are intended to mitigate some of the potential negative impacts of 
global financial sector instability and recession, thus protecting the economy, job creation 
Page  8
potential, and the government’s spending power.  Actions under Policy Area 2 are intended to 
improve poverty monitoring and coordination efforts and to expedite or increase critical public 
expenditures in the event of a global slowdown.  These actions will have no likely significant 
environmental effects.    
 
Actions under Policy Area 3 are intended to clarify rules regarding the Investment Negative List, 
improve the investment climate by reducing uncertainties and bureaucratic discretion, introduce 
revenue transparency in the extractive industries sector, and support trade financing.  These 
actions will not relax or undermine any environmental requirements, but rather reduce 
uncertainty, and improve transparency and governance.  Provisions for stabilizing trade 
financing under Policy Area 3 aim to prevent declines in trade in the event of a global downturn 
and thus would not introduce new, likely, or significant effects.  Implementing EITI will increase 
local government and civil society access to information about natural resource revenues, a first 
step toward improving governance in the extractive natural resource sectors.  In the short term, 
there are no likely, significant effects.  In the medium term, these reforms help develop the will 
and confidence to take on additional improvements in rule of law, regulatory certainty and 
accountability more generally – including, potentially, in environmental regulation and 
enforcement. 
 
8. Contact point: 
Contact: P. S. Srinivas 
Title: Lead Financial Economist 
Tel: 62-21-5299-3000 
Fax: 62-21-5299-3111 
Email: Psrinivas@worldbank.org 
Location: Jakarta, Indonesia (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
